ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u2	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u3	Mr President! Finland, which is 100 years old, has always survived difficult times when key social actors, the social partners in the front line, have shook hands despite their differences. The Sipilä government has created a lack of confidence and tension in the labour market by demanding wage cuts from employees, by undermining working conditions. This policy has led to a situation in which the EK, representing employers, believes that it is even possible to abandon the central organisation agreements that protect shop stewards and occupational health and safety ombudsmen. It is quite clear that the government has lost control of the functioning of the labour market. If the government does not act now, there will be a labour market crisis similar to that in the case of forced laws. Finland will not be able to take this anymore. I ask you now, Minister Orpo, as President of the main government party and Minister for Finance, what kind of action is the government taking as a result of this impending crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u4	Mr President! Firstly, I have the impression that what the Confederation of Finnish Industries announced yesterday was a logical continuum for it when they made their decision last year in which they decided no longer to conclude agreements at central level. It is very important that there is an agreement system in Finland and that wage formation takes place by agreement between employers and employees. I trust it and we trust in the government that there will now be consensus in the Federation Round to which we are going, there will be solutions that take care of wage moderation, and wage increases, working conditions will be agreed in such a way as to give priority to ensuring competitiveness and ensuring positive employment development. I am confident that in the labour market, despite the fact that the role of central organisations has now deteriorated in the next round, these things will move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and register by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u6	Mr President! Minister Orpo, the central objective of the government has been to increase competitiveness and strengthen employment. The Government wants to promote these goals by using the Finnish model and increasing local reconciliation. However, now encouraged by the Government, the Confederation of Finnish Industries is, by its own actions, putting these important goals at risk for the government. Until now, the government has acted as an agent for the Confederation of Finnish Industries in the labour market. The employee side has almost exclusively taken responsibility for all the improvement of competitiveness, and thanks to this, the EK is sweeping the contract society off the map. Mr Orpo, the SDP stands ready to support the government's efforts to strengthen the contractual society. Will you accept this offer of help?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u7	Mr President! First of all, I have the impression that Mr Rinne, during this government, criticised us for interfering in the work of the social partners. We are now confident that the social partners, at the federal level, will find good solutions to the creation of employment and economic growth-oriented and forward-looking solutions. It is not up to the government to intervene in the formation of wages, nor is it up to the government to enter into these negotiations. It has been very important for us that we have a Kiki agreement — it was very important that we have a Kiki agreement. We can discuss how many new jobs it will create and in what period it will create, but it is undeniable that it will improve competitiveness, and for that I would like to thank the social partners extensively for the fact that the kiky agreement was created. We must, of course, support the work of the social partners and unions in finding solutions, and in our own actions we must lay the foundations for these solutions, but it is not up to us to participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u8	Mr President! Finland has been seen as a strength for stability and for us to be able to work things out together. It has been envied in Europe and envied even further away in the world. When the Kikiy agreement was concluded, the employee side wondered whether this agreement could be trusted whether it would be worth going to, whether the government was keeping its own line, whether the employer side was keeping its own line — and that confidence was believed. The government then set up a working group to cut unemployment benefit, which was considered to be contrary to the Kiki agreement on the part of employees, and therefore employees are not involved. Now the employer side is becoming radicalized, and it is thought that the trade union movement will remain the same amicable and offer a hand that has been handed out after every pound of ear. Do you understand, Mr Vice-President, that the trade union movement may also be radicalised and do you understand that the government can play a role in preventing this radicalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u9	Mr President! I have never heard threats about radicalisation on the part of employees before, and I hope that such talks will not be needed, but that agreement will indeed take place. I hope that it will take place at the federal level, where we are now going, in these rounds of alliances, which is certainly no surprise to anyone. And I hope that more and more can be done to agree on working conditions, pay and work-related matters, also there on a job-by-job basis. That is also the aim of the Government Programme, and it must also be made progress during the Government term. The Kiki agreement is respected and respected by the government. What was decided last autumn, before the end of the year, on new measures in the field of employment, was a very wide-ranging round with the social partners. Almost all of the employees' organisations approved the government's actions which we have launched and which are currently still being prepared to discuss, among other things, with the SAK. The most important thing is to take steps to get as many Finns as possible to work. As many Finns as possible for work,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u10	Mr President! Of course, the Confederation of Finnish Industries has the right to assume that if they want to only conclude union-specific wage agreements in the future, they will have the opportunity to move in that direction, but there have been many agreements at the central level on practical rules of play, such as group insurance and other arrangements, which will cause a lot of problems in the workplace, including in the position of trustees. Are you aware that these agreements at central organisation level protect precisely those areas which are less agreed in collective agreements, for example, expert work? We have the social change in the process of increasing expert work, the work is no longer tied up in one place, the self-employed, who are between the entrepreneur and the employee, are increasingly involved, and if these agreements are now dismantled, these people are increasingly exposed to the fact that they do not have extensive support and security. My question is therefore: will the government recognise the change in working life, and will you protect the position of self-employed persons and experts in this event of dismissal from the EK,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u11	I would pretend to recognise this speech by Minister Lindroos,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u12	Mr President! If I can begin, Minister Lindström will proceed. Firstly, as Mr Niinistö said, working life is indeed changing, and global competition requires more and more rapid response from our labour markets, jobs and more rapid response to the changing competitive environment. And it certainly also requires the social partners, each individually and then also the central organisations, to consider the role they play, and the EK has contributed to these considerations. The government has nothing to do with their decisions. They have made their own reflections, but I am assuming that it is our job to create rules on the playing field of working life in terms of legislation. Labour law protects the employee and takes care of the employee's rights and thus good working life. Then there will be a clear role for the social partners and, hopefully, more and more in the workplace. As far as the important structures within the labour market system, to which you referred, are concerned, I think it is absolutely necessary that these should be taken care of if the social partners:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u13	When there seems to be no Minister Lindroos, I will give the floor to Minister Lindström. Excuse me, Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u15	I'm never going to sit down with Minister Lindström again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u16	Mr President! After many bad years — Finland was in recession for many years, if not in recession — the government took a number of different steps to reverse development for the better. The Kiki Agreement was one part of this, a number of measures to facilitate SMEs, and now a turn for the better has taken place: competitiveness is improving, the economy is growing, employment is getting stronger — not yet well enough, but in any case the direction is finally starting to improve. One follow-up to the Competitiveness Pact was the so-called Finnish model. Unfortunately, it now appears that its emergence in the light of recent labour market news is becoming increasingly difficult. Mr President! I ask the Minister for Finance or the Minister for Labour what your view is: will this Finnish model be born, and how important does the government consider it to be?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u17	Mr President! We really hope that the Finnish model in one form or another will be found. The Finnish model means that employees' organisations and employers' organisations in the export industry would, as it were, apply for the maximum wage increase that we can afford in the national economy. We are so dependent on exports and its competitiveness that this marching order is therefore extremely important, and this was agreed in the competitiveness agreement that the social partners in the Finnish model will build. Of course, I am concerned about how this work is progressing, but I am confident that there will be so responsible people in the labour market that they will take care of Finland's competitiveness and thus our employment and its positive development in difficult times. Just as you said, we have achieved positive growth in the economy, but when it is not enough, that is why we need these next steps, and the Finnish model of ensuring competitiveness is one of the next important steps.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u18	Mr President! Minister Orpo, you said that the government does not want to interfere in wage formation or in the agreement of social partners. You were very hard-pressed and threatened by additional cuts to other sections of the population if employees did not agree to tough cuts in working conditions. Now these employees, who have to work for three days free of charge per year, who on the public side have given up a third of their holiday money and transferred obligations from employers to themselves, are waiting for the next squat, and it is apparently coming through the full reform of the Working Time Act. They are genuinely afraid that the next step will be to take away the Sunday allowances, the shift allowances, the security that you, Minister Orpo, have said in terms of the safety of the employee, including the maximum duration of the working day, and so on. Are you going to continue along the same lines and by exerting pressure, blackmailing, threatening the social partners to agree to unacceptable reductions in working time legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u19	Mr President! My esteemed representative, Mr Uotila, these verbs you used did not seem familiar, these blackmails and threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u22	Mr President! It is quite unheard of in the past that the opposition was accused of interfering in the affairs of the labour market, and now people are angry and accused of not interfering in them. So it's a pretty interesting perspective. But genuinely, if we start talking about the labour market, everyone knows how strongly the labour market is changing at the moment. For example, today there was a study that said that 79,00025-54-year-old men, the best working-ageman, have even been found on the labour market,and that no work of this kind is very far removed,when we are talking about the wondersome countries,such as Sweden or Denmark,have achieved 75% employment rates and we have achieved an employment rate68. And quite often the point is that they have a much more flexible and local labour market. I would like to ask the Minister what lessons we have to learn from Sweden and Denmark now that genuinely people can get to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u23	Mr President! There is certainly something to be learned from Denmark, Sweden, Germany, but it is not worth directly copying. I'm sure there's some good ideas. I myself have also visited the Danish model and these much-spoken interviews. There are many things we have to learn from there, but Finland is a different society than these countries. We need to find our own way to do these things. Personally, I am a strong advocate of settlement. I am a strong defender of the trio, what it will be like now and in the future. This is whether we have a flexible labour market or not: there is certainly something to develop, and this has been acknowledged by everyone that we have a lot of things to go on. This local arrangement is one such thing. I understand that in the world of this kiwi that local agreement has been brought forward, but there is still room for hope. And of course the government is interested in anything that we can get more people to work with, and not so that people are idle. This is a common concern for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u24	Mr President! This is a tough decision, which the EK has taken, because it comes directly to the core issues of worker protection, such as the role of shop stewards. There is also an agreement on the protection of dismissals and also an agreement on the co-operation of jobs. So they want to get rid of them. And at the same time here, Minister Orpo says that he does trust the responsibility of employees. I do, too, but I no longer trust the responsibility of the employer if these protections are taken away from the workers. In the spending limits debate, you are planning to introduce more legislation to bring matters to the workplace without the protection of collective agreements and, at the same time, to remove the rights of shopkeepers. And then you tell me that you are not going to do anything about this — this is what I understood — that the government is not going to make any effort to cooperate and protect workers. Flexibility will be a curse if it does not involve security. I hope, Minister Orphan, that you will consider whether it is worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u25	First of all, I must say that I have the feeling here that the opposition is scaring me. You are creating a confrontation while at the same time you are talking about a settlement society. I say that I am counting on the social partners, employees and employers to ensure that what has been agreed is maintained, even if the role of the central organisations is reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u26	Mr President! There is no one here to frighten anything, but to tell us what we were told yesterday by employers that they intend to put an end to agreements such as the rights of shop stewards, the protection of the dismissal of shop stewards, agreements on cooperation in the workplace. That's a lot of hard decisions. If these contracts are taken away, it does sound rather unsafe for the workers. And the government says here that it trusts responsibility, but does not recognise the problem that arises for workers when their rights are weakened, their chances of survival in the workplace are weakened. Minister Lindström was much closer to the reality of working life than this speech by Minister Orpo. I still ask: do you intend to communicate with employers and ask how this protection of workers will be organised? If there are no agreements, then you should start thinking about the legislative path,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u27	Mr President! Mr Lindström can continue with this, but, according to what I have, first of all, as I said, this EK announcement or decision, which they made last year on the side, that they no longer conclude these agreements at central organisation level, has been well known, and my view is that these major and important practical issues relating to it, to which you referred, have been the subject of ongoing discussions. I'm sure I'll be in touch, so the government is, we'll be monitoring the situation. And if we have a role to play, and we have to have, in that process, then, of course, we will be ready to act. But still: in the light of the information I have, I am confident that these important things to which you referred,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u28	Mr President! In other words, the EK announced that it would terminate a number of key agreements between central organisations, after which at least PAM and SAK have estimated that negotiations on contracts of employment in the autumn will be difficult as a result of this trick. I hope not. Life is very local, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u29	Mr President! So the government, as I have just said, is really interested in promoting local reconciliation. All we have to do is find the right way and the way to take those things forward. You can't take them off with a ruff. We're gonna have to make a deal to get them out of here. And this is what the government has done all along, by agreeing. In this debate, I would like to raise the issue of the reform, review and review of the opening of the Yt Law by Mr Antti Palola, President of the STK, who I very much appreciate. I am prepared to look at the matter in the sense that the law which is quite essential in this debate has become a stamp: it is the law of dismissal, although it has been intended to do something quite different. When we are talking about this whole, about worker protection, yes, this government is interested in workers' safety, in ass-rafts, and I myself have defended universality precisely because of the need to have a basic security for workers. If it's not universal, then what is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u30	Mr President! I am pleased to say that Minister Lindström has toes in the warm waters of the water under contract, unlike Minister Orpo — you are dealing with this issue as if this were not the case with the government. We are not here to deny or object to the fact that the central organisations are not entitled to denounce agreements when they have made such an organizational decision in due course, but I would like the government to be able to see this situation. You have told us in this Parliament about the growing and emerging expansion of the export industry. Is this a good time for the government to take it up, to calm the situation down and to say whether this matter should be moved a little further so that we do not run into the breach of social peace so that the social partners at federal level begin to renegotiate all these agreements;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u31	Mr President! First of all, I do not believe in the idea at all that old structures are always the best way when our working lives change and competition in the world changes our lives all the time. Society must change with it. I think that this development can be seen at the moment in the social partners themselves, making these decisions. They make these decisions themselves. Of course, we have to take care of the employees' safety. To that end, there is labour law, which is our task above all. In addition to that, there are agreements that have existed at central level, and I think it is quite clear that these must be agreed at union level in the future, so that these things will be preserved and so-called important social peace will also be maintained. As far as this local agreement is concerned, it has been agreed in the kiky agreement so that the next stage will be the union round. The government is following very closely the way in which the union round is conducted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u32	The author of the original question, Mr Rinne, wishes to continue with his question, but when that is the case, before him Mr Östman and then Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u33	Thank you, Mr President! It is important for economic growth that the necessary structural reforms are made in the labour market and that working conditions can be agreed locally, in which we fully agree with the government, but another important element is competitive corporate taxation. According to the Tax Task Force of the Ministry of Finance, the Finnish system is already sufficiently competitive and does not need changes in their opinion. When asked by entrepreneurs, this is certainly not the case. In the same breath, however, the Tax Task Force would be proposing changes to dividend taxation, and the Group's view is that dividend taxation does not encourage growth — an incomprehensible argument. The current model will reduce the double taxation of public limited liability companies. Yet yesterday, Minister Soini was also putting forward ideas along the same lines as the Tax Task Force, namely changes to dividend taxation. I ask Minister Orpo: what is the government's line on dividend taxation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u34	Mr President! As Minister of Taxation, I am not proposing changes to the taxation of dividends proposed by the Tax Task Force. Business taxation, on the other hand, is generally considered to be reasonably competitive. In that case, first and foremost, we are talking about corporate taxation. In this respect, we must closely monitor what is happening in the world. In the United States, for example, you hear President Trump even plan to halve corporation tax. This type of business needs to be carefully looked at, so that once again, business taxation, which is important for our export industry, is and will remain competitive. Instead, I do not think it is the right time to increase the tax burden on non-listed SMEs, namely, if somewhere in particular SMEs, we expect new jobs to be created and that there will be those growth companies that are increasingly hiring Finns and safeguarding our well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u35	Last question, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u36	Mr President! Minister Orpo, you have just thrown back this way that the SDP has tried to show the government that it is not wise to get its hands on wage formation or working conditions. I still agree exactly. We politicians should keep our hands off them; we have experienced things in 2007 that we hope will not be seen in the future, politicians getting involved in the formation of working conditions. But this is a contract society. It is now a question of how the contractual society is to be exported from now on. These are the rules of the game. There are Akaval experts and staff members who are fully dependent on these central organisation agreements from the point of view of their security of trust, the protection of workers' rights, and now the central organisation EK is breaking this whole in a contractual society. I have such a feeling about your answers that as if you do not understand how serious this situation is from the point of view of the labour market. I was there in September 2015,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u37	Mr President! There is no question of not understanding the seriousness of the situation in Finland as a whole in terms of competitiveness, employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u38	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u39	Mr President! It is clear that the central theme of the government's mid-term review will be to improve employment, and it is equally clear that the EK decision last night will not at least make the task easier, but there are other challenges. The government has already tried to improve employment by a variety of means: there has been a lot of work done, a reduction in taxes on both employees and businesses, a reduction in the rights of the unemployed and a reduction in the employment budget. But new means are needed, that is what we agree on. Free early childhood education is a means of dismantling a significant incentive trap. Almost all families with children would improve their disposable income. In particular, it would help families with children with low and middle incomes, improve the employment of parents and prevent exclusion. Now that a large part of the parties, as well as the EK and the Taxpayers' Confederation, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education have given the green light to this direction, I would like to ask the Minister of Education, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, whether the government intends to take part in a mid-term debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u40	Mr President! The government is working faster than in the mid-term debate, i.e. 1.3. early childhood education fees are falling. For example, for low-income single-parent families, it can mean 700 euros more money per year. This is a big and important decision, which has already been made a good decision in connection with the budget debate, which will make it easier for single-parent families, for example, and hopefully also more children to participate in early childhood education, because early childhood education is the most effective part of our education system and a very important stage in future learning. In other words, we have a lot going on at the moment also in terms of developing the content of early childhood education, including new foundations for early childhood education plans. In addition, we are constantly improving the situation with regard to staff skills, i.e. we are trying to have more kindergarten teachers with pedagogical training in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u41	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u42	Mr President! Day care fees for single parents are probably quite an old decision. I'm glad this is happening. However, the government is making many other decisions. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, under your leadership, the subjective right to day care has been specifically reduced, with group sizes raised in day-care centres, which is precisely the opposite of what we do when we know that early childhood education is particularly important for children in the disadvantaged. It is a means of balancing differences in school performance due to family background and preventing exclusion. And while we know that, according to the OECD, Finland is the least involved in early childhood education in Europe, we need these new measures. That is why I would like to ask: are you also prepared to dismantle these previous decisions, i.e. to restore the extensive subjective right to day care and the former groups, which are smaller than today?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u43	Mr President! Of course, the economic situation poses an undeniable challenge to the development of early childhood education, but on the content side it has been possible to make good decisions, including those I have just mentioned, that is to say, an increase of one third and a permanent increase in the number of kindergarten teachers in universities. Early childhood education is also gaining its own so-called curricula, i.e. the foundations of early childhood education, which makes it possible to improve the quality of early childhood education, for example, and its regionally equal quality in early childhood education. It's a big deal. Early childhood education is moving very much forward in terms of content at the moment, which I am very pleased about. Every child has the right to early childhood education and especially that pedagogical, planned early childhood education. We have already come a very long way since early childhood education in the old days was day care or kindergarten, so today it is seen as part of our education system, its first and most impressive part. I would see that in the future we would have a great deal of potential
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u44	Mr President! Thank you. It seems that the female chairman of the opposition party can ask about early childhood education, but not so much about labour market policy. I am pleased to see that Mr Grahn-Laasonen, the Minister for Education and Culture, has on several occasions raised this free early childhood education and the transition to it. But the big question is how it reacts to these weakenings already made by the government. For example, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities estimates that the savings from the limitation of subjective day care rights would be around 30 million, while this partly free day care, which we support in the Left Alliance, would increase the cost of some 300 million. So is it really the case that the government is also prepared to invest more money in early childhood education, restore the subjective day care right and genuinely promote the transition towards free early childhood education, or is it in these speeches?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u45	Mr President! Firstly, early childhood education is a service provided by municipalities, and that is why it is very important for us that local government finances develop positively through the decisions of this government and that there is a big difference between the decisions of the previous government, which unfortunately had to be taken away from local government funding. But as far as the participation rate in early childhood education is concerned, I fully agree that we are facing challenges here, that is to say, we are very much behind the other Nordic countries in Finland and we are also lagging behind the other OECD countries, a great many, and that is certainly one of the points to which these rapporteurs, whom I mentioned, will pay attention. More than that number of hours is determined by the fact that the child has the right and the opportunity to participate in early childhood education at all, and in this we need a wide-ranging debate in Finland, that new research, both international and domestic, is also identified by the messages from it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u46	Mr President! Indeed, the great challenge of working and social security lies in the families with children of one of the guardians. I do not know whether early childhood education, Minister, should really be free in Finland. Another possibility would be what we have now put forward in the centre to consider in this incentive trap working group, that a child increase should be included in the reduction in earnings. It is in this way that families with children could be encouraged and improved in terms of their access to consumption,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u49	Mr President! The purpose of the incentive trap — currently being carried out by the Ministry of Finance on a civil servant’s bet — is to find all possible ways to always make it worthwhile to take a job: a day, a week, a month, it is always worth taking up the job rather than being passive. In that case, the order they have been given includes a whole: taxes, payments and current transfers. This is a whole that needs to be looked at; it may be an element, among other things, of deductions. But it is a whole, and I do not want to comment on any elements individually at this stage. I hope that we will find the basic solution that always pays off taking the job. If we find ways in which, within the framework of the spending limits, or within our resources, we can make it easier for families with children, then all of them will be taken seriously on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u50	Mr President! Yesterday we discussed sustainable development here, and in this context we also discussed the welfare economy and investments in well-being. After all, in the welfare economy it is emphasised that investing in prevention and promoting health and well-being saves future spending, and vice versa: savings in the wrong place will be very expensive for us in the future. Growing group sizes is one of these wrong and bad decision that has now had to be made. In practice — many people in day care and early childhood education have said so — this has really caused confusion and a deterioration in quality in early childhood education there. Can the government think about this again now? Would it be possible to reverse this bad decision because this would be in the best interests of the child and the interests of society in the longer term?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u51	Mr President! The representative made a good observation that we should make every effort to be able to contribute as preventively as possible and at an early stage to possible problems which will then appear in our society, for example, as an exclusion of young people. In that sense, investments in early childhood education and early years are important developments in the future. Similarly, this government's programme includes a programme of changes in child and family policy, the central objective of which is that families should receive support as soon as possible, especially in terms of parenthood and education, and schools and early childhood education play a very important role in this. I believe and trust that we will also be able to achieve good results through the dissemination of existing good practices on how to shift the focus from corrective measures to early intervention and prevention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u52	Mr President! Finnish early childhood education is of high quality, and people there are doing valuable work. I would like to make a slight correction to the opposition's view that the subjective right to day care has been cut completely: It is still entitled to receive, it is 20 hours a week and more if necessary. So it's still there. However, I would like to ask the Minister about this coordination between work and day care, early childhood education, which has also been raised recently. In what way can we ensure in the future that there are different forms of early childhood education for those who work shifts? For example, I myself have worked shifts with three children and I know how difficult it is to be there at 4 p.m. to pick up that child from the kindergarten. Will we also have a 24 - hour - old garden in the future, and how will this work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u53	Mr President! What a good question, and I myself have some experience of this complex reconciliation of work and family life. It will certainly be even stronger in the future that when working life changes, becomes diverse, working hours change and work diversifys in every way, then it will also pose challenges for our service system to take into account that change in working life. This is already reflected in early childhood education today and is being taken into account as well as possible, but there is certainly still room for development and a place in this coordination of the service system and the change in working life, so that we have as many tools as possible as a society to support parenthood and reconciliation of work and family life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u54	Mr President! The happy thing is that it seems that almost certainly the majority of parties are worth expressing early childhood education, which means that at least the next government may then be able to do this if this government does not want to increase the employment rate for women. I believe that would be a very good thing for the economy, as the Confederation of Taxpayers has just pointed out here. Also in the case of new jobs, 34,000 jobs, only 3,000 have been women's jobs, and the Prime Minister has recently promised that he will work tirelessly for equality between women. In that sense, there would now be a lot of good elements to support the Minister of Education in this task, which is to encourage this task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u55	There was no question. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u56	Mr President! Free early childhood education, part-time, would be primarily in the best interests of the child, the best interests of the child in preparing and supporting the school path towards that period of childhood and youth. It also involves dismantling the incentive traps of mother and father, parents. From the point of view of sustainability, it is also justified. The question also arises as to how it will be carried out. Is there one way to take one age group at a time? It is about EUR 100 million, with which it can be exported in some way, perhaps as quickly as possible, but there is also the question of where the money is coming from. I therefore propose here, when the Committee on Social Affairs and Health unanimously proposed that we introduce a health-based sugar tax, which is currently being examined at the Ministry of Finance, whether we could combine another good deed with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u57	Well, was there a question, did anyone find it? — Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u58	Mr President! Indeed, this work of inquiry is under way, but as an interim point, I can say that it is certainly not simple to find a simple model for that sugar tax, but because we know that there are examples in Europe, we are still going through them, but we are trying to get this matter to Parliament as quickly as possible and, for example, to be considered and evaluated by the tax section, and that will give us all a common view as to whether there is a way forward or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u59	One final question, Mr Järvinen, is the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u60	Mr President! It is clear that free early childhood education is the direction in which we must move in order to involve women in the labour market so that we can get families out of the risk of exclusion. But even now, now that group sizes in day care centres have been raised and subjective day care rights limited to that 20 hours, there are many unfortunate cases. At the moment, many children feel that unlike their friends, he is not entitled to breakfast, unlike his friends, he is not entitled to a full day’s sleep, but he has to wake up in the middle of dreams and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u61	Mr President! In Finland, there is a high-quality, high-quality early childhood education that compares internationally or in comparison to anything. I also believe that we representatives here also have a responsibility to signal that early childhood education is good for the child, that it is in the best interests of the child and that early childhood education should be developed, particularly as a educationally strong part of our education system. That is why I also want to send out a strong message that, as a rule, early childhood education becomes a very positive customer feedback to municipalities: that when you look at it, as a rule, families are very satisfied with the service they receive. Then, of course, there are individual cases that need to be addressed if there are irregularities and, for example, there have been acts contrary to the guidelines and against the law and against the best interests of the child. These individual cases must, of course, always be addressed,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u62	In short, a few more questions. Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u63	Mr President! The payment of income support has been transferred from municipalities to Kela at the beginning of this year. This reform was very necessary and we in the Left Alliance have also supported it. With this reform, bureaucracy and crowding people from the hatch to the hatch had to be reduced and important social work resources released from the processing of applications for human contact, but now we have received a lot of alarmed contacts from people whose income support has not been well paid. Bureaucracy has not been reduced, services have been congested, and now people have big concerns when electricity bills and rents threaten to fail. We too are very concerned about this. Minister, do you think that there are enough benefit handlers in Kela at the moment to deal with all applications in a timely and timely manner?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u64	Mr President! Indeed, as the questioner described, the treatment of income support has been transferred to Kela with the aim of harmonising practices and releasing resources for municipal social work, among other things. Of course, I am not familiar with the contacts you have received. You describe them as being alarmed and, of course, they should be listened to. At this point I could say that Kela certainly wants to refine its system so well that all processing is flexible. We are in a transition phase, and these cases must then be looked through.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u65	Let me give the answer to the questioner, Mr Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u66	Mr President! There have been particularly many of these problems in urgent crisis situations, that is, when the need for assistance is greatest. I am a little surprised that these concerns around Finland have not reached the ears of Minister Mattila, but we can certainly deliver these people's concerns and letters to you. The municipalities do not currently have guidance on how, for example, supplementary income support is provided. This lack of guidance has even led to situations where the aid has not been paid at all, and of course this cannot be the case. On the other hand, people who may not have been able to apply for temporary support in the past have also been covered by income support, but the most important thing, in my opinion, is that those who urgently need it also receive it in time. Minister, how do you intend to ensure that everyone who needs income support receives it either from Kela or from the municipal social services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u67	Mr President! The so-called standard element of income support, which does not have any discretionary powers but is comparable to the human life situation, economic data, both income and expenditure, has been transferred from the beginning of this year to be implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u70	We still have a few short questions to take up. Congressman Squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u71	Mr President! The maid of Finland is now skiing at a nice speed. Thanks to the good government, there's been a turnaround. One year ago, the unemployment rate was 9.2 per cent, and it is now 7.9 per cent, and even long-term unemployment has fallen. Consumer confidence has improved and industrial production is growing. Investments in manufacturing grew by as much as 3 per cent and exports by 1.4 per cent. However, the barn now has a bit of snow. Here we have already heard of the tensions of the social partners, and it seems that the pace of other countries can be even faster. That is why I ask, Minister Orpo: what would be the key steps, that our speed would only increase further, and perhaps the opposition could encourage 100-year-old Finland to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u72	Mr President! First of all, on this question of opposition: yes, I think they could give us more encouragement. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u73	Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u74	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! När regeringen kommer med sina förslag är det viktigt att vi också vet vika consekenser förslagen har. Därför kan man säga att det är fint att regeringen den ox veckan dragit tillbaka förslagen om avgifterna på förbindelsetrafiken och också båtskatten och mc-skatten. Man har lyssnat till oss och man har lyssnat till expert. Men nu ska det stora sote-paket snart komma hit till ricksdage och den ox reformen har långtgående consekvenser. Därför är det också viktigt att ox lyssna på expert.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u75	Mr President! Officially, an opinion was requested from more than 500 operators and, as part of the formal referral, it was stated and it was also said out loud that everyone else who wanted to make a statement was allowed to make a statement. We received over 700 statements. If an official invitation or request to the Financial Supervisory Authority has not passed among the 500, this has certainly not prevented them from being able to speak out and express their own views.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u76	Next question, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u77	Mr President! I am concerned about freedom of expression and expression of opinion in Finland. Equality, equality, freedom of speech and opinion are fundamental pillars of Western democracy. The well-being of families and children, the growing of children and young people into well-balanced, self-esteemed, respectable and diverse, cooperative citizens, is of paramount importance for the future. However, the basic conditions for these are crumbling. Without understanding the consequences are radically changing, for example, the basic unit of society, marriage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u80	Mr President! I recognised this in part on my own property, the Ministry of Justice's property, as the term 'hate speech' has often been discussed. I think we should all go in front of the mirror and respect each other's opinions. No matter what we discussed, it is not in anyone’s interest to shout and talk past each other. There have been many conversations here where there have been such valuable topics, and in them I myself have been on the bench of the accused, as I have experienced myself. In my opinion, this is not a valuable debate. We can disagree, we can disagree. It's everyone's freedom. Traditional values must be respected, and the traditional mind must be respected, but at the same time the opinion of the other person must also be appreciated. And this must be ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u81	Once again, I give the question to Mr. Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u82	Mr President! Almost EUR 3 million was paid to political youth and student organisations this year, which is provided by the Minister for Education and Culture. This year, the political youth organisations of the old parties were granted subsidies of up to EUR 600000. At the same time, the annual subsidy amount of EUR 115000 is considered sufficient for young people in Finland to run their operations. The amounts of support provided by political youth organisations have increased year after year and have shown little evidence of central government savings programmes. In addition to this, individual municipalities, among others, have provided support to political youth organisations at local level. The support system is based on the benefits achieved and is unfair to new political youth organisations. There's no political support in the crowd. I would like to ask the responsible Minister for Education and Culture: How can the continuing increase in the amounts of aid and the gross imbalance in the amount of aid granted to the various youth organisations be explained? When
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u83	Mr President! Grants from political youth organisations are allocated from the proceeds of the lottery, not directly from the budget, and I think it is very important that we have, as the law requires, equal criteria when awarding grants. These grant decisions shall be prepared by the evaluation and assistance commission, which shall draw up the draft, and these decisions shall be taken in accordance with the proposals made by its commission. In previous years, young people in Peru have taken their grant decisions to the administrative court, and on 16 January this year the Supreme Administrative Court has rejected the demands made by the organisation from previous years. Of course, there is also an opportunity to complain about that decision this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u84	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 1/2017 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u85	Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs has adopted a report on the citizens' initiative to maintain a truly equal marriage, a union between men and women and the abolition of the gender-neutral marriage law. This citizens' initiative now under discussion seeks to preserve marriage as a truly equal union between men and women and to repeal the gender-neutral marriage law. According to the initiative, a gender-neutral marriage deprives the adoptive child of a substitute experience of parents, fathers and mothers of different sexes. The right of a child to be cared for by a parent cannot be fulfilled in a marriage of the same sex. According to the initiative, the rights of same-sex couples have been adequately taken into account in the Act on Relationships. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has justified its report as follows: During the last parliamentary term, Parliament adopted 28. On 1 November 2014, the amendment of the Marriage Act, which also allows marriages to be made to couples of the same sex. With this amendment, the rights of married couples, such as the adoption right and the right to have a common surname, also apply to same-sex couples. The amendment to the Marriage Act will enter into force on 1 March 2017. The so-called "Authorised Marriage" citizens' initiative now under discussion seeks to repeal the amendment to the above-mentioned marriage law. Its purpose is to preserve a marriage only between a man and a woman. It is proposed that the repeal act included in the initiative will enter into force as soon as possible and in any event before the law amending the law on marriage enters into force on 1 March this year. The amendment to the Marriage Act adopted by Parliament during the last parliamentary term was also based on the citizens' initiative. During the discussion of this citizens' initiative, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights consulted around 60 experts in order to obtain a broad and diverse picture of the initiative and its impact. Various ministries and authorities, religious communities, organisations in different fields, family, child and constitutional law professors, as well as children’s psychiatrists were consulted as experts. The views of experts on the citizens' initiative were divided into three groups: those in favour and those against it and those who did not take a stand for or against it. Both those in favour and those against the initiative called for the status and interests of the child. The adoption of the so-called equal marriage law also created the need to amend other laws. During the current parliamentary term, Parliament has adopted several amendments to the law based on the amendment of the marriage law, so called accompanying laws, in two different contexts. These amendments of the law enter into force at the same time as the amendment of the Marriage Act. The Committee on Legal Affairs has asked for an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the question of the constitutionality of the initiative and the relationship with human rights treaties, because there was a lack of clarity in the committee's consultations. Such a statement shall then be an obligation to ask for it. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are no absolute requirements preventing the adoption of a law under a citizens' initiative in the order of ordinary law. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that, for constitutional reasons, the Committee on Legal Affairs must ensure that the draft law does not lead to retroactive weakening of the right to marry, to register a partnership or to the legal effects of exercising these rights. This is a condition for the law to be laid down in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. The following conclusions have been drawn by the Legal Committee: As described above, during the last parliamentary term, Parliament has approved the amendment of the law on marriage so that same-sex couples can also marry. During this parliamentary term, Parliament has in two different contexts approved amendments to the law based on a change in the marriage law, which will enter into force at the same time as the amendment to the previously adopted law on marriage. These decisions promote equality in society. The present citizens' initiative seeks to overturn Parliament's earlier decision to amend the Marriage Act. The amendment of the law would be repealed just before it entered into force. The Committee on Legal Affairs believes that the citizens' initiative is about the same issue in which Parliament has recently taken a decision. This is therefore a sort of counter-initiative for the previously discussed citizens' initiative on gender-neutral marriage. Although the citizens' initiative is laid down relatively broadly at constitutional level, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its opinion, has considered that the citizen's initiative containing a recent amendment to the law adopted by Parliament is not well suited to the intention expressed at the time of the adoption of the citizens' initiative that the citizens' initiative should bring new issues to political debate. On the other hand, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is a matter of discretion for the legislator to amend the legislation as required by the relevant social developments. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the fact that Parliament's committees, for example, may, by way of derogation from the examination of the Government's proposals, decide independently whether or not to take up the citizens' initiative and how to deal with it. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the repeal of the amendment of the marriage law previously adopted by Parliament on the basis of the present citizens' initiative would obviously lead to a new citizens' initiative, which would seek to transform marriage into a gender-neutral one again. It would be possible to create a kind of cycle of conflicting initiatives and legislative proposals on the same subject. In view of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs agrees with the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that a citizens' initiative containing a proposal to amend the law recently adopted in Parliament is not well suited to the purpose expressed at the time of the adoption of the abovementioned citizens' initiative. According to the Legal Affairs Committee, Parliament's earlier decision to turn a marriage into a gender-neutral marriage is based on an in-depth and appropriate committee and plenary debate, in which there has been a wide-ranging and wide-ranging debate on the points of view both in favour and in opposition. Nor, in social or other circumstances, does the committee consider that there has been any change since the proceedings which would justify a reassessment of Parliament's previous decision. Implementing measures have already been taken following amendments adopted by the Parliament and adopted by the President of the Republic, including changes in the information systems of the authorities, which have entailed costs. The adoption of the present citizens' initiative would therefore not mean avoiding the cost of transforming the marriage law into a gender neutral. According to a report received by the committee, the entry into force of the legislative changes has also been prepared in other ways, including guidance and training. The repeal of the proposed amendments to the law just before they enter into force would be a colossal legislative work. It would also be unreasonable for the individuals concerned. The Committee on Legal Affairs stresses that Parliament's legislative work must aim at coherence, stability and predictability, particularly in the area of legislation on key legal institutions, such as marriage. With reference to the above arguments, the Committee on Legal Affairs does not support the adoption of the draft law contained in the initiative. Proposal for a decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs: Parliament rejects the bill contained in the citizens' initiative. This decision was not unanimous but contains an objection. Mr President! Finally, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I would like to say here, as an individual representative of Parliament, that I sincerely hope that we will respect each other's opinions and values. At least I appreciate them all. There are 200 different opinions and values here, and I hope that this debate will remain relevant. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we did quite well. I hope we can do it even better here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u86	Mr President! "A play of no value" describes the activities of the municipality in Once again, they want to be bullied in the name of government cooperation, even though it is less than two weeks before people have wedding places reserved for that happiest day of life. We owe them an apology. What I ask is that when you speak in this Chamber, you remember that you are talking about real people now, about real families — and they are listening. Talk about these families with the same respect that you would like to hear about your own family. Mr President! In fact, everything I have to say on this subject has already been said many times, and instead I would like to read you an article by a woman. This nearly 60-year-old woman has been working in this house for over 25 years. For over 25 years, he has come to work in Parliament every day to work for this country. For more than 25 years, he has listened to every cruel, disparaging and submissive phrase that has been said in this Chamber about his motherhood, his love and his family. In all these years he has not complained; he has not raised his voice. But when, at the beginning of this week, he heard of the assembly’s presentation that his life was once more being torn apart in this hall, he wrote: "We've lost our lives for decades. We've fallen short of inappropriate behaviour Step by step we have made our way forward to get what was automatically due to all others. We have accepted that we have been insulted, both as a group and as individuals, by the public fora and, in particular, by the most important point of reference in this country's Parliament. We have accepted that, when dealing with our issue, it was not a human rights issue, but a religious issue in which different religious communities and the Bible have always been involved. We have felt guilty about our parenting because ‘it is wrong to make children to be bullied’. We have been able to understand the difficulty of making decisions and have accepted that we are given human rights piece by piece and always so that the anxiety that may arise from them for some others does not grow too great. We have accepted that in order to be freed from the criminal’s stigma, we were required to remain silent about our identity and our lives. We accepted that, in order to gain the acceptance of our relationship with society, we gave up the right to a common last name and the possibility of adopting children together. We accepted that in order to have our own children officially owned, we had to petition the court for it. Finally, after years of work, all the humiliations, self-prejudice and uncertainty in life, Finns decided that it was enough to procrastinate and squirm politicians. A citizens' initiative was taken which resulted in a law, a law that treats all of us Finns equally and equally, which is finally coming into force in a couple of weeks' time. A law that doesn't take anything away from anyone. A law that gives us a chance that we've never had. But whatever happens. Once again, our happiness and our rights have been sidelined by the anxiety that has caused us so often in the past to give up our rights, in whole or in part. Once again, our rights are under threat because some others find it difficult to understand and accept. We have been flexible, we have understood, we have given up. We have waited and we have accepted that our rights can only come true once the majority is behind it. Now it is. Now it's your turn to step aside. Shame on you."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, and other people following this debate! I believe that we can speak in this Chamber with respect for this subject, although this is very sensitive to many people, but as legislator, I appeal, among other things, to Emma Kari for Finland to be a democracy. There will be motions, there will be motions, there will be votes and there will be no votes. It's a blessing in this country. We are free to meet, free to express our opinions and free to make various proposals. I cannot accept the fact that different stories try to block the mouths of people who want or dare to support traditional marriage. It is not in any way wrong to express its opinion that it does not want to change its view of marriage and uniqueness between a man and a woman that is five thousand years old. As legislators, we must understand that we do not discriminate against anyone when we make laws, but we do laws for the benefit of society as a whole, and today we are discussing this genuine marriage citizens' initiative, for which I would like to thank the 106,000 authors who have wanted this debate here in the Chamber and also until the vote. Here we are, on the last doorstep of a man-woman marriage, not only to save the fate of marriage but also of some adoptive children. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights took the only right decision in bringing the present initiative to the plenary session. However, getting a citizens' initiative here was not a matter of course. The special thing is that it was necessary for the Constitutional Committee to say that the traditional concept of marriage as proposed by the Genuine Marriage Initiative is not contrary to human rights. [Department : he did not adopt a position!] The law in force on marriage has also been criticised as discriminatory. Similarly, the gender-neutral marriage law has been marketed as equal and almost as important as mankind’s first step was to the moon. The right question should be what equality is. Equality is not the same as human dignity that everyone has on the basis of humanity. Every human being is priceless. None of us, however, can gain all social rights on the basis of humanity alone. In fact, equality is easily distorted as a concept. Its absolute interpretation leads to nothing but a dead end. Then everyone will have exactly the same rights or no rights. In the end, where the border is drawn depends on values or, for example, economic reality. To allow marriage to persons of the same sex, more than two, a child or close relatives is ultimately a matter of value. Allowing adoption for same-sex and transparients is also a matter of value. To justify the amendment of the law on marriage, I have not yet heard anything concrete but the claim that the law is unequal. I wonder how such soft arguments sink into legislators who should know the law and act according to the law. Mr President! The amendment of the Marriage Act undermines the content of the current marriage institution and leads to an unpredictable development. How do I know this? In Norway, same-sex marriages were approved in 2009. Immediately, the government led the reform of the educational content of kindergartens. The children had to be offered a new concept of gender identity. In Michigan, according to official instructions, state schools must allow all pupils to choose their own sex and name. You can't tell your parents what to do at school. French day care centres read stories about little boys who were little girls. Mother's Day in the schools has been driven down. The words "father" and "mother" have been completely deleted from the legislation. It is therefore no longer a matter of being neutral or a matter of establishing different situations. On the contrary. There is an active desire to promote a world of ideas under the new legislation. Instead of parents, children seem to be led by the state alone. Some people in Finland are trying to do the same. The new educational style is driven by Seta’s oven-fresh teacher guide to primary schools. The author of the guide says that gender diversity should be dealt with in comprehensive school and in connection with each subject. With first graders, we should consider why couples of the same sex do not appear in children’s books and other material. At the beginning of each Swedish course, the teacher should ask each student separately whether he wants a personal pronoun, hen or hen. The responsibility for dignity rests with the parents, the rest is totalitarianism. The Council of Europe's Convention on Human Rights states: "In the exercise of its responsibilities in the field of education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to ensure education and education for their children in accordance with their own religious and ideological convictions." This must certainly be borne in mind by us who bear the responsibility in mind in the future. Mr President! A few more comments on this gender-neutral marriage law process: I wonder how the promises of a gender-neutral marriage law are going to be forgotten, even though the law is not even in force yet. It is insured that gender-neutral marriage law does not affect churches in any way. A lot of people insisted on this explicitly when they signed the "I want" initiative. The same has been assured here by the Members of Parliament in connection with these proceedings. Now some clergymen announce that they will arrange marriages for male and female couples in church as soon as secular legislation changes. Why do the clergy, knowingly, want to create legal ambiguities for couples? The law protects religious autonomy. Contrary to the church’s own rules, marriage must be considered null and void. I think it would be reasonable for the legislator to make this perfectly clear. It has also been said that sexual neutral marriage is not from anyone. The Russian orphan child, whom the Finnish couple would like to adopt, would probably disagree with this. Russia and several other countries will not give up the child for adoption if the concept of marriage is changed and, at the same time, the possibility for gay couples to adopt the child is allowed. We can create legislation for the benefit of orphan children. We can give the child's donor biological parent, organisation and state the right to require that the child's new family has both father and mother. I don't think that's too much to ask. Let us hope that the representatives of our people will have the will to ensure the continuity of adoption activities by all means possible. Mr President! Trends are going, and trends are coming. However, one practice has been preserved and preserved and preserved for a long time in all societies at all times: a man shall give up his father and mother and shall join his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Marriage has survived as an institution between men and women worldwide and in very different societies. The first written record of marriage is already 5,000 years ago from the land of the Gemini River. The monogamous marriage between man and woman has survived because it is the best. Best for kids, best for adults. A gender-neutral marriage would be a social test where our own children would be guinea pigs. What we sow, what we reap — bitterly. Better if we had the wisdom to stop this worrying development and trust that not all old traditions are so bad. The child has a mother and has a father. This has always been the case, and it will always be the case. Human biology cannot even change the Finnish Parliament, no matter how much it wants to. The best place for a child is in a family of parents, raised by their biological parents. It is the legislator's duty to support this right as far as possible. Finally, it is also good for the public to know that we have also dealt with this issue of marriage among us from a ecclesiastical point of view. After all, this is very important for religious communities. More than once or twice I have been tried to convince of the Bibleism of the gay union because it is a matter of love, and there is nothing bad about love, but what is neighbor love? Personally, I am not convinced that unions of the same sex are unproblematic for the congregations, although some colleagues, even with the authority of a member of the church council, have convinced me of the Bible of gay unions. At this point it is worth recalling that churches and congregations in the free direction have not accepted the same sex marriage. "For historical, cultural andtheological reasons, the church supports the maintenance of the This quote was from the statement to the Legal Committee of the last parliamentary term on 2 April 2014, and these positions have not changed in the churches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u88	As I understand it, ladies and gentlemen, different views on this issue have now become sufficiently clear, so we can go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u89	Mr President! I would like to welcome Mr Nikon to this millennium and recognise these diverse families that we have. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights had such an extraordinary initiative that Parliament decided on a gender-neutral marriage law at the end of the last term and these laws have not yet entered into force, i.e. they will come into force on 1 March 2017, and now in that sense this law was historic, that it was also enacted at the initiative of the citizens. However, at this point, the Committee on Legal Affairs has had to consider how to deal with an initiative which seeks to repeal a law that has already been adopted and which has not yet come into force. In other words, I do not think that the citizens' initiative should become an instrument to delay the entry into force of the laws already decided. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to present a report rejecting this citizens' initiative, and Parliament will therefore be able to vote on this again, but I hope that it will be the last time on this point. Making Marriage Law More Equal
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u90	Mr President! When they are removed from the words of opposers of the equal marriage law, those often put forward and repeatedly disproved, there will be little left but the homophobic air that plunges into this hall. I respect and appreciate all kinds of religious viewpoints, but it is quite clear that when we deal with this from a secular point of view it is an economic union made by two sovereign people. Now I see that it has been decided once in Parliament and it is good for us to move on with this. An equal marriage has come to this country to stay.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u91	Mr President! I do not think that it is a proper argument, nor is it a good argument for other debaters, that this citizens' initiative, or the process of dealing with this citizens' initiative, is labeled as a worthless play or stigmatised as bullying or stigmatised as homophobics by people who are in favour of the current legislation on marriage. This citizens' initiative is driven by the concern of over 100,000 citizens about where our society is being taken. The concern that the foundation stone of society, built on marriage between man and woman, is being broken. Yes, at the heart of this dispute is the definition of marriage. I myself assume that in principle marriage is a woman's and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I really hope that this debate will take place in such a way that the use of different names, for example, will be forgotten. It is not necessarily the best course of action required for the proper, elegant handling of such a matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u93	Mr President! Sometimes you just have to repeat yourself, and so I say the same thing when this matter was in the referral debate last autumn: this debate seems a little pointless because this matter has once been resolved in a large Chamber and none of us will be able to come up with the first new argument, not for or against. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps in Paasikivi's words,'recognition of the facts is the beginning of wisdom'. It is a new time, and the equal marriage law comes into force 1.3. Let’s put a stop to this uncertainty, let people love each other and marry each other, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u94	Mr President! For me, this question of marriage law is very simple: people are equal before the law, and marriage belongs to everyone who wants to make it. In fact, I believe that the more people want to marry, it actually strengthens marriage as an institution. I think it is right that this citizens' initiative should be dealt with in this Chamber, even though it has revealed to us the problem of our citizens' initiative legislation. Every initiative must be dealt with in the same way, and that is where we, as a Parliament, are now doing the right thing. But the problem here is that there cannot always be a new initiative which overturns the previous one, because it makes the whole purpose and meaning of the citizens' initiative unnecessary, it takes its function away from it, so I think that the law on the citizens' initiative should be taken into consideration again. Now enough initiatives have come to Parliament and we have enough information to see if we wrote it in the best possible way. To Representative Niiko, I must say: I respect everyone's personal religious convictions, but I think that Finnish laws should be neutral in writing about the views and world views of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u95	Mr President! There is no neutral space. All of us subject our thoughts through some ideology, religion, or religion. Freedom of expression and freedom of religion are the fact that in this Chamber too, where we have unlimited freedom of expression and freedom of opinion in the rule of law, religious values should also be allowed to be spoken. I would like to ask Mr Kar when, at the end of your speech, you said 'fail it': did you mean the 106 000 people or us representatives who disagree with you today? The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that "the citizens' initiative may also, without prejudice to the Constitution, be directed towards amending or repealing the law provided for by the citizens' initiative". There is no point in criticising this initiative. We have created this system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u96	This is a number of responses that have been asked for. However, it is now in this situation that I give the floor to Mrs Kari so that what she has read gets the correct interpretation of what she meant for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u97	Mr President! At no time have I criticised those citizens who want to bring matters to the table. I criticise the way in which Parliament is now dealing with this issue. We've got two weeks before people get married. We also owe it to these people to be able to rely on the legislation that is being adopted here. We've got two weeks. It's very little. I would also like to say that this text, which I read, was not my text. It was the text of a man who worked for 25 years in Parliament and his knowledge of what this conversation of yours awakens in him and in all the people who live his life and have had to listen to these conversations. Those were his words, not mine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u98	That's right. — I would have pointed out Mr Kari if I had interpreted them as his words. It wasn't. That's clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u99	Mr President! Marriage is a very important institution for society. I think marriage is a marriage between a man and a woman. This initiative or this discussion is not essentially about equality, equality, human dignity and human rights. It's about marriage. As much as we decide in this Parliament, we legislate in this matter, the difference and difference between a man and a woman’s marriage and a relationship of the same sex will not go away. It won't go away, even if we control it, and that difference will remain. Well, as far as the citizens' initiative is concerned, we should remember that the Constitution states in Finland belongs to the people,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u100	Mr President! This is a question of human rights, equality and equality. By regulating this law on equal marriage, we have made a very significant step forward in achieving equality in Finland, and this law should not be repealed. This initiative, this genuine marriage initiative, has been the subject of an important debate on the citizens' initiative as an institution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that citizens' initiatives should be welcomed, but that legislation must aim for consistency and stability, and that the initiative containing the amendment to the recently adopted law is incompatible with the purpose of the citizens' initiative and that the provision of the citizens' initiative is relatively broad. For these reasons, I think it would be appropriate to assess the functioning of the citizens' initiative. It has been in force for a long time now, and it has been seen that it works, it is of interest to people. But what is, for example, the name to be collected?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u101	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This matter has already been dealt with. This debate on the basis of the citizens' initiative has already taken place, but yet here we are again talking about people's lives, talking about people's fundamental rights for the second time. I listened to the debate on the equal marriage law myself, not from this Parliament, but from the couch at the time when I was not yet a Member of Parliament, and I have also listened to this debate from my own experience and background. In this connection, I would like to remind all the Members of this House, and I agree with the wish expressed by the President in this Chamber, which has come through the speeches made by many of them and has heard that this issue is being discussed correctly, this is being discussed in an appropriate manner. This debate is heard by ordinary Finnish people, couples, families, children of these families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u102	Mr President! It is a good thing that the debate is being held on the grounds that it is a proper debate. The good news is that the citizens' initiative has also received a good, thorough debate. That's the way it's supposed to be. I'll stick to my earlier decision. In our decision, Parliament has decided, and I do not think that these should be changed at this rate. This legislation is an opportunity for a counter-initiative, but it is now necessary to assess the overall functioning of this system of citizens' initiatives, because that counter-initiative can, of course, not be removed altogether. On the other hand, how many of these names do you have to have? Now 166,000 people have been in favour of this, 106,000 now are in favour of this counter-initiative. I myself have sometimes suggested whether there could be such a kind of non-signature in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u103	Mr President! I agree with the wishes of the representatives who have expressed here that we should stick to the matter and respect each other, no matter how they feel about it. I think the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, summed it up very well in his closing words. I was in 2014 to decide, I was allowed to vote in favour of an equal marriage law. It was a truly important day, a huge day for the people affected by this initiative. It was also important because it was the first law decided and adopted in the Chamber through the citizens' initiative. Now it's coming into force. I think it is very important that we respect this institution of citizens' initiatives, but it must also be re-examined and reconsidered as to whether it fulfils the conditions set for it and its idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u104	Mr President! I am in favour of a traditional marriage until the end, but instead of repeating myself and my speeches, I am happy to raise issues that many others have not already said so far. I would like to highlight what has been said about this initiative, that this is now final and that it cannot be changed when that law comes into force. A counter-initiative, if any, must be taken now before the law has entered into force, because its subsequent amendment will cause constitutional problems. It is misleading to say that this will be changed later because it is not possible. I also ask how many people here would complain about the problems of the citizens' initiative if this counter-initiative were in their own minds. That is the kind of speech I have not heard. Everyone is opposed to this initiative. The representatives who are now voting on this will have a lot of security. If you do not vote in favour of the citizens' initiative, you will change the institution of marriage once and for all in this country, each in person.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u105	Mr President! This citizens' initiative has been signed by more than 100,000 citizens and shows how many Finns still have a traditional concept of marriage that is very important. I therefore hope that these people too will be respected and their convictions respected in this debate. President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this citizens' initiative and noted, among other things, that there are no obstacles to the adoption of this citizens' initiative by international human rights treaties, the European Convention on Human Rights or the decisions and practices of its Court of Justice. Nor does Article 6 of the Constitution, which deals with equality, require that the concept of marriage be changed in Finland. In that sense, it is not a question of human rights or equality. Mr President! Although I pretend that many feel otherwise, I listen to the voice of my conscience and support marriage
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u106	Mr President! However, both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has addressed equality specifically and the relationship between this law and equality and the Constitution and human rights, so that in that sense it is an indisputable fact that this legislation applies to it. Experts also say that if this citizens' initiative came into force and withdrew its previous law, it would significantly undermine people's fundamental rights. In that sense, perhaps we should not discuss this. Consideration should also be given to the expectations of legislation. In February 2015, Parliament adopted the law that will now enter into force on 1 March, and in that sense we have also adopted the accompanying laws for this period. There is no reason why people could not be prepared to spend the day of love on March 1, to strengthen the bonds, the love ties and family ties they have made. I certainly hope that this citizens' initiative will be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u107	Mr President! When there really is less than two weeks before marriage law takes a step forward in this country, one step towards equality, then at this stage Parliament will not start to be a wind quail and start to cancel. It is understandable that in many rainbow families, where that day of love is eagerly awaited, the debate that is being held again on this initiative is being bullied. That's perfectly understandable. That is why it would be good if a strong message were sent from this Parliament to these families, that you should prepare for the day of your love as you have prepared until now and spend it with your loved ones. Now is certainly not the time for us to cancel, and I dare say here that for every new argument I will offer a cup of coffee at that diner — hardly at this point in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u108	Mr President! Here we do not decide the rules of religious communities, they are determined by the religious communities themselves. Here we decide on the laws of the Finnish state, and the only sustainable guideline is that we respect the equality of people, the dignity of all, including the love of all people. In this debate, tradition is often invoked. Even Congressman Niikko appealed to a 5,000 - year tradition. However, tradition is a very stretchy guideline. The same sex unions were known and recognized, among other things, in ancient Greece and Rome and Mesopotamia. Also, according to some studies, at least the early church married male couples. In the year 1000 C.E., documents have been found in Spain that a priest has married a couple of men. The only guideline we can take, which is consistent, is equality between people
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u109	Mr President! Representatives of rainbow families claim that there are no reasonable arguments or new arguments in this regard, but last season's Legal Committee, of which I was a member, ended up holding the marriage institution two years ago. But in the end, Parliament voted otherwise. The then Law Committee also paid particular attention to children's rights in the preparation of the gender-neutral marriage law. The committee then called for an assessment of the impact of children to be carried out in the preparation of major legislative changes in family law. This requirement is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, i.e. the child’s best interests must prevail in all decisions against children, but children have not been taken into account. The present government of the Centre Party, the National Coalition Party and the Finns Party unanimously brought to Parliament the supplementary laws of the gender-neutral marriage law. I'd like to ask you why the government parties don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u110	Mr. Speaker! I have always tried in politics and perhaps a little in life to understand different views, even if I would have thought something of myself, and I have felt, without any hypocrisy, that this debate, which has already taken place in the past, has reasonably been able to understand different views. I think that the Finnish people, too, are largely in the middle of this debate, and I hope that most of them will understand different views and different incomes from where they come from. So during the last parliamentary term, I decided to support the equal marriage law and, of course, acted in the same way in the vote now before me. But the reason why I asked for the floor is this, to which more people have already referred, that this institution of initiative will probably need to be updated a little after that, perhaps in the case of these amounts in particular. It is certainly not the fault of the people who take initiatives or counter-initiatives, on the contrary, it is their right and it is a great thing that they do them, but we must evaluate this system, for example, to develop more than 100 Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u111	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Modig and others who have justified what is happening in this Chamber. I myself would not have liked to have discussed this issue here any more. I believe that we have already discussed this issue, that the previous Parliament has discussed many times, and I believe and hope that the equal marriage law will be implemented and that the marriage will be 1.3. after all . I agree that it is worth considering how the citizens' initiative system could be further developed, that we would not be in this situation again with something else. We need to make consistent legislation here, and cooping around doesn't give us a good idea. I don't think that's going to happen. However, I would also like to say that, as far as I know, gender diversity is a medically recognised fact and it is not a matter of belief, as is sexual orientation, and it is perhaps something that we legislators should bear in mind here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u112	I have also drawn up responses to the representatives of Hongisto, Ville Niinistö and Kosonen. - Well, well, I have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u113	Mr President! Interesting speeches have been made in the Chamber. In my view, each of us in the Chamber has its own opinion on the matter, it is everyone's own and personal opinion. I do not think we need to go out there and teach each other what is right and what is wrong. I have thought, I think, and I will think as long as I live, that two of the same sex should not be married to one another. This opinion will not change even if I find myself the only one in the Chamber who thinks this way. I do not justify my opinion either in the Bible or in the law book, just to say that it is a matter of principle. I also understand those who think in another way and respect their opinion. In the same way, I take it for granted that my opinion is also respected. That is what I wanted to tell the colleagues and the Finnish people, and I hope that the citizens' initiative will come into force in the form of a law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u114	Mr President! In two weeks we will have reason to celebrate, and that is what we should be prepared for now. Finland joins the progressive civilized countries in bringing equality to the finish with the marriage right of same-sex couples. As a result, this play, which is now taking place in Parliament, is a worthless play that could have been dealt with more respectfully by people who are waiting for this right, who have been waiting for it for decades, and who will be getting married in the next few weeks. Now the great Chamber of Parliament can show that it can save this by showing by an overwhelming majority that Parliament upholds the fundamental rights that have already been laid down by the last Parliament and which have been confirmed by the President of the Republic. It became very clear in the expert hearings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, as fundamental and human rights move forward, we are moving forward with education that this country will be fairer to everyone after this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u115	Mr President! This debate has seen what kind of brawl this system of citizens' initiatives is taking. Good speeches have been made here, including from Mr Modig and Mr Puumala, on how to rationalise our system. Among other things, the Committee on Legal Affairs has considered that this bill is incompatible with the principle of the citizens' initiative, which brings new subjects to political debate, but it is possible to do so. Another difficulty here is that this is quite unreasonable for individuals. It's about how we feel about each other. Despite human qualities, everyone must have fundamental rights. 1.3. Finland is a more equal country, that is what I have always wanted and continue to want.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u116	And at this point, a response to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u117	Mr President! I would like to respond to one point when Mr Niikko, a member of the Legal Committee, somehow suggested that this matter was sent to the Constitutional Committee almost without justification. This was by no means the case. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, a constitutional expert suggested that this could be a challenge for fundamental and human rights. Then the President-in-Office will have a duty to send this, and I am still behind this decision. If I hadn't done that, the President would be in trouble here, because he can't take a case like this here in the Chamber, there's not two words in it. The second point is that I did not ask the Constitutional Committee to examine whether a marriage between a man and a woman is unconstitutional. It was not a question of this, but of the fact that, once the law had been adopted, legitimate expectations had been created, even though it was not yet in force, had been accepted by the President. These were to be examined by the Constitutional Committee and examined and said that there were no constitutional problems, but this had to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u118	Now, the debate has been going on for quite a long time, but we will be taking a few more debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u119	Mr President! It is confusing to see how for some representatives and political movements the equality of people and the right of people to get married mean nothing at all. Can we honor the fact that love belongs to everyone? An equal marriage law and its citizens' initiative will be converted into a marriage law in two weeks' time. Then there's cause for celebration. People get to marry their loved ones. In two weeks' time, Finland will be a fairer, more diverse and better country than today. Now this initiative of the unequal marriage law will be overthrown and the equal marriage law will be celebrated in March.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u120	Chairman! I would just like to say here, in particular to Mr Kärnä, that I do not feel homophobic in any way, but that I am a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u121	Mr President! I do not think that this bill needed to be brought to this Chamber for a debate. The matter has already been decided, the President has passed the law, and although the date of its entry into force is only in March, in practice this matter has been decided. The fact that there has been no new information here, which is why we should now change the previous decision, is quite clear, and that is why I think that the citizens' initiative would also have been treated with integrity in that it was the only committee that would have dealt with it. If there had now been some major changes, which is why this matter should have been thoroughly re-examined, then it would have been appropriate for the Committee on Legal Affairs to carry out even more extensive consultations, to carry out the impact assessments on children and others which Mr Östman has called for here, but now this is only timed in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u122	Mr President! On this particular point, I do not really want to take a major position, but I would like to criticise those arguments by the Legal Committee and some of the representatives, which I do not think are very strong, in relation to the fact that one of the initiatives that has already gone through could not be counter-initiated and then rejected on that basis. There can be no way that if an initiative that has already been passed turns out to be bad or if it is otherwise opposed by large sections of the population, then it would no longer be possible to change it with the citizens' initiative. It is exactly the same as if the next government were to be banned from changing the decisions taken by the previous government on the grounds that when they have only just been agreed a few minutes ago, then they could no longer be changed. This is what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u123	Mr President! I think it is quite right that this debate should take place here, even if nothing new may arise. The problem is, as has been mentioned here, this citizens' initiative as a model. I'm sure that will require some consideration. We have managed to activate our citizens, perhaps even too well, and now we have to look at these limits. I am also concerned that quite clearly many representatives, including myself, are somewhat frustrated at the fact that what is to be done with the bill, collect names when its probability of passing is really microscopic. There are 500,000 people behind 100 names. 150 names, 750,000 people. I was a major in general history at the university. My favorite is the history of Rome, and if there is something you want to learn about that thousand-year society, I have learned at least that there were very different ways in different centuries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u124	Mr President! Each person has a world view — Christian, atheistic, nonreligious, or some other religion. Freedom of faith and opinion guarantee every right to the world view. The media have suggested that nothing could happen. Yes, it can. Last time, 101 votes for and 90 against the citizens' initiative. For example, if you think about the city centre’s election victory, the power ratios have changed. I am therefore looking at the Centre Group's way of voting on this issue. There's a conservative spirit in the air. It must be said that, unfortunately, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights seemed to me to be a bit of a drag on this issue: if the criticism is that why it is only now being dealt with, then it would have been possible to deal with this more quickly. Representative Niinistö suggested that 106,000 signatories would have done a worthless thing. I think they did a very valuable thing. I thank you for that and I will vote in favour of this citizens' initiative. This Parliament, we parliamentarians, has the power of reflection. European Court of Human Rights
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u125	Mr President! It is important that we respect each other's opinions genuinely and truly. I think marriage between a man and a woman is the only real marriage. Our entire Western culture, our entire history, is based on Christianity, and it has been the foundation of our society for millennia. Marriage has ensured that society has been able to develop peacefully and steadily, giving children a good environment for growth while children are young. Today, however, this traditional marriage has been attacked very strongly. Of course, I understand that we humans are different. If a man loves a man or a woman, I have nothing against it, but then this confession of love would have nothing to do with the fact that the foundation of our society has been a marriage between a man and a woman. I think it should continue to be the case, but if I lose in the vote, and apparently this will happen or has already happened, then there is nothing I can do about it. But let me remind you of the Christian tradition on which all Western culture is based.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u126	Mr President! A lot of valuable, good speeches have been made in this Chamber today. There's only one thing I'm dealing with right now. Talks about children’s rights in this context were, in many respects, offensive to different families and single parents, to people who live here and now in their everyday lives. Sex doesn't make anyone good or bad in itself. Parental responsibility and love for the child is something that matters. If there is concern about children's rights, there is reason to be concern about the government's policies regarding, among other things, the limitation of subjective day care rights, which was discussed in this Chamber today during Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u127	Mr President! I think that this citizens' initiative and the snowball phenomenon that have now been brought into the Chamber of Parliament, in a way, is a good basis for the debate that we are going to do with this citizens' initiative system in the future. I was in the Nordic Council and there I was able to introduce this Finnish system, and there too it became a question of whether there would then be a counter-initiative and so on — well, now we have. I think it is all right for this debate to take place here in the Chamber. It is democracy, and the people who are against have made their voices heard, and those who are in favour have also made their voices heard. I myself am one of those who are opposed to this citizens' initiative today in this Chamber, and I am voting in the same way as I did the last time. I think Lauri Viita sums up well when It's just the mothers, those powerful ones in hope, that ends the poem "Oh, my children, love!".. How do we reduce divorces in Finland? The number of divorces is rising. Is it not important that people find one another and lead a good and happy life?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u129	We have had a very long debate, but we will take one more round, with the representatives of the various groups, whom I shall now mention here, and then we will go to the list of speakers. So I give the floor to the following representatives: Niikko, Biaudet, Kärnä, Andersson, Tanus, Niinistö, Ojala-Niemelä and Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u130	Mr President! The child’s right to father and mother in the event of adoption is so important and important that I cannot remain silent. Yes, a gender-neutral marriage law would be out of place for children. It would also be out of the parental dignity education right. It would be out of freedom of speech. It would be out of the congregations, their way of interpreting the Bible according to a thousand - year tradition. It cannot be claimed that this is not from anyone. Why do you tolerate nothing but what you see through your own whistle, Mr. Kärnä? Why do you label all the people who are not prepared to change their opinion? It is a question of opinion, it is a question of values, it is a question of tradition, it is a question of the future of our nation according to some views. Why is it not acceptable even in this Chamber to disagree? I'll never understand this. You say that you are tolerant, but all your actions and words prove something quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u131	Mr President! Yes, it is interesting how things can be turned upside down.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u134	Mr President! Let me clarify the term "homophobia" that I used earlier, which generally refers to discrimination against sexual minorities. I may be a little simple, but I do not understand what discrimination is, if couples of the same sex do not have exactly the same rights as everyone else. Mr Niikko, I appreciate and respect your views, your views, your convictions, but I see this pragmatically so that we are dealing here with secular legislation. And from this point of view, marriage is an economic agreement concluded by two fully-fledged people, on the basis of which we must move forward. I would like to say to Mr Östman when you were concerned about the impact assessment of children: These effects have been very comprehensively investigated. At the University of Colorado, a composite study of 50,000 studies has been published, based on which researchers are fully agreed that there is no difference between a child growing up in a rainbow family or a heterosexual family. Love, courage, and freedom. That's what I'm going to do in this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u135	Mr President! It has been said in many speeches that everything has already been said. That is probably the case, because this equal marriage law has been adopted. But perhaps in this social situation we are living in times when certain arguments need to be repeated over and over again. So time and again we have to say again that we want to work for equality, that we are prepared to defend equal human rights, fundamental rights, the right to love for all people. That is what this initiative is all about, that we do not want to create discriminatory legislation, that we do not want to deprive certain people of the right to marry. And if we want to be constructive, then this initiative should then be dealt with from a democratic point of view, that is, how we can stick to this very valuable institution of citizens' initiatives in itself in the future and ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u136	Mr President! In Finnish legislation, generally different groups of people with special needs have been taken into account quite well. In terms of relationships, the current law on marriage and the separate law on relationships take into account different relationships, and within the framework of these laws it is possible to take well into account and, if necessary, improve the matters of different couples. I would therefore like this House to understand the benefits for all of us in continuing to keep marriage and the law on relationships separate. In this context, I would like to remind you that we also have many registered couples under the rainbow in Finland who are not in favour of a gender-neutral marriage. We have couples who may be planning to register their relationship in the future but lose it altogether, and they will be left completely empty because they cannot marry because they do not feel that it belongs to couples of the same sex. So let's also take this into account that we have same-sex couples.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u137	Mr President! In dealing with this issue, I am surprised at the flight of responsibility that some of the Members of Parliament have. This fact that it is here in this Chamber is not because the citizens have taken a citizens' initiative, but because the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to bring a clear anti-equality motion to the great Chamber. They decided to make a report on an issue in which all reason and wisdom would no longer have had to be done. It would have been valuable to the legislative work that previous parliaments have done. That would be proof that we take fundamental and human rights seriously: once they have been passed to the people by law and confirmed by the President's decision, they will not be re-opened in the big House of Parliament. With the citizens' initiative, such proposals can come to Parliament, but we Members of Parliament decide how we view them, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights acted in this way, which, in my opinion, brings an ugly stain to the fact that we still have to vote on this, but let us at least put it to a good vote and demonstrate,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u138	Mr President! I was dealing with this initiative last season in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, as was the case during this parliamentary term. At that time, a great deal of work was done, more than 60 experts were consulted on the matter. Mr Östman went through that last time, but the difference in voting there in committee was very fine. Thus, by the difference of one vote, the then equal marriage law did not progress, but then a second decision was reached in this Chamber. In this regard, Mr Tolvanen has already taken the view that why this was taken to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Yes, this was justified by the fact that during the last parliamentary term the same sex was placed on an equal footing, and now the legal situation is being changed if the rights are taken away under this genuine marriage citizens' initiative, that is to say, equality is being undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u139	Mr Tolvanen, chairman of the Legal Committee, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u140	Mr. Speaker! The Legal Committee has now appeared to be quite reprehensible. First of all, Mr Elo accused us of procrastination, and I think it is rather outrageous for us Members who, this week in two days, have done a great deal of work to get this report into the Chamber. This citizens' initiative came to us in September, and then it was sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in mid-October, which, unfortunately, did not get it here until last Friday because of its urgent work. And here Mr Niinistö also criticised the Legal Committee. However, the majority of us felt that we wanted the citizens' initiative to be treated with dignity, as mentioned in some of the motions, and that it would be brought here in the Chamber. And as Mr Ojala-Niemelä wondered about the work of the Constitutional Committee, in which Mr Niinistö is a member, one might wonder about that. But I don't think it's gonna build much more in this situation. Let's just focus on this and get it over with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u141	Now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u142	Mr President! I do not think it is a bad thing that Parliament is discussing marriage. However, it is a very important part of Finnish society. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u145	Mr President! At the heart of this debate on values is the definition of marriage: What's the point of marriage? Is marriage basically a marriage between man and woman, as I think it is, or is it another bond that unites people? Marriage is mankind’s oldest, still the most important public and legal treaty in society, and it is man-woman marriage that is very common culturally, based on man’s natural understanding, quite apart from religion and also in atheistic countries. This has been replaced by the idea of marriage as a close relationship between two adults through a gender-neutral marriage approach, and I claim that this gender-neutral thinking has received much support through the use of misleading equality rhetoric that a gender-based marriage, i.e. between a woman and a man, would violate the constitutional principle that everyone should be treated equally. In reality, the traditional or current gender-based marriage law guarantees every adult person the right to marry a person of the opposite sex, and this right to marry is a right for every person — not to define a person’s sexual orientation, but to have it as a right for everyone. And the basic function of marriage is to safeguard the stability and continuity of society, which essentially involves the natural possibility of producing offspring. What I find very worrying is that this gender-neutral change in the law inevitably leads to a fragmentation of the concept of marriage in our society, which means that people will continue to mean different things when they talk about marriage. For a significant part of Finnish marriage will continue to mean an agreement between a woman and a man, and this, for example, has recently been confirmed by the bishops of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, i.e. the marriage is to be entered into — and it should be concluded — in church only between a man and a woman. The fact is that this change in legislation, for example, puts churches in a difficult situation and under pressure when their basic ideology, basic thinking, or the Bible - based Christian view of marriage, is in sharp conflict with this social marriage law. I would also like to say here that no matter what kind of laws were passed in this Chamber, no matter what is laid down in law about marriage, its essence will not change, so we cannot change the laws of nature even if we legislate here. It is also important to combat a development where adherence to the traditional concept of marriage and continuing to act as politically incorrect, homophobic or discriminatory. We must also think about the weakest, that is to say, children and young people in schools or educational institutions, their families or people working in different service sectors or, for example, in local register offices — that is, freedom of speech, opinion and religion must be guaranteed for everyone. I would also like to remind you that the institution of marriage has indeed been set up to create the most vulnerable members of society, children, as safe and stable a growth environment as possible, the right to their biological parents, fathers and mothers. The most significant amendment to the gender-neutral marriage law concerns children, but in this respect this assessment of the impact on children previously required by the Committee on Legal Affairs was not carried out. "Motherhood" and "motherhood" are the most profound concepts in human history. These are the first words a child usually learns to say, and it is based on a biological reality that we cannot change in this Chamber either. Each child is born of one mother and one father, and the child cannot have two mothers or two fathers at the same time. Indeed, an important problem will also be the possibility of adoption, which will become more difficult if this change comes into force 1.3. Mr President! I would also like to say that no international agreement would require Finland to transform its marriage law into a gender-neutral law, and that is also what this citizens' initiative and its grounds refer to. The limitation of marriage between one man and a woman is justified because this relationship differs from all other relationships. It is based on the continuity and renewable nature of our society, and the complementary diversity and link between the sexes are the foundation of our civilisation. Democracy also includes the fact that the elected parliament can change the decisions taken by the previous parliament. I would remind you that this legislation, which is now coming into force from the beginning of March, is the responsibility of the previous Parliament and the decision of the previous Parliament, and I therefore hope that, on the basis of this citizens' initiative, this Parliament will now be able to correct that decision. Finally, I would like to thank the 106195 Finnish citizens who have signed and produced this citizens' initiative. It is a large number, more than 100,000 Finns are behind this, and I believe that the support for marriage between man and woman among Finns is much greater than what it looks like from the discussions in this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u146	Mr President! What can you say when all the arguments have already been said? I want to say a few words about humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, think of your loved ones. Think of those whose presence gives you a warm feeling inside of you. How no words can describe the amount of love you have experienced, how that tremendous feeling sometimes moves to tears. After that, think of a moment when you are truly relieved. The moment the heavy load falls off the shoulders is easier to breathe and the sun shines a little brighter than it was a moment ago. When you feel so relieved, it makes you want to tell anyone who comes to meet you. They're both great and great emotions, aren't they? So big, sometimes I feel like I'm cracking. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Think of a moment like that when you've been at a dead end. A moment where the world seems to be against you. Walls fall on top, throat chokes. Despair seems suffocating. Such a feeling is not hoped for by anyone, but people have now been placed in such a situation. People who only want to be with their spouse. People who have planned to marry another person they love. People who want to make a commitment. These people don't deserve this kind of treatment. They do not deserve hatred, bullying and discrimination. They deserve love and permission to marry. Mr President! Love belongs to everyone. Love wins.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u147	Mr President! Basic rights and the affairs of ordinary Finnish families should not play ping-pong. People have planned their lives and their future, reflecting the fact that marriage law will become equal on 1 March. These people deserve better than what Parliament is now capable of dealing with this matter just two weeks before the amended marriage law enters into force. The SDP is in favour of an equal marriage law. We will be voting tomorrow as we did in 2014 when Parliament dealt with the citizens' initiative on equal marriage law. Legislation as a whole must be developed in such a way as to support the implementation of human rights and fundamental rights in society in a broad sense. When it comes to the status and rights of minorities, unfortunately, many problems remain in Finnish legislation even after the entry into force of this marriage law, which must be addressed in the direction of equality and equality. We also have the opportunity to do this, among other things, when we are dealing with the bill on the amendment of the trans-law and the citizens' initiative on the maternity law, on which the Committee on Legal Affairs today held a public consultation. Just a few words about this process in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which was ahead of this Chamber. The Social Democrats, together with the Greens, the Left and the RKP, criticised in the Committee on Legal Affairs this timetable, which was undeniably very busy and, in my opinion, unreasonable, even deliberate. We lost the vote when we proposed that expert consultations should not have been interrupted simply because the matter was brought to this Chamber as quickly as possible, so that this hearing took place prior to the entry into force of the equal marriage law at the beginning of March. I didn't see the need for it, and I still can't. In my opinion, the committee should have been left to work in peace, to work in this area too. We also voted in favour of the report not being submitted. This is after we had dealt with the previous question. This issue has recently been dealt with in Parliament, and the citizens' initiative is a counter-initiative, which is what we are now dealing with. This is a counter-initiative, and it will not change; this matter has already been dealt with in the past. We also lost this vote in committee. It is unreasonable for a minority group of people to be repositioned through this mankel, which demeans them and questions their lives, their families and their dignity. This is not new. There's been a conversation. We're done here. Fortunately, today's Chamber has not heard such bad speeches as we heard before the citizens' initiative on equal marriage law was discussed in 2014, as we have heard, for example, when these accompanying laws have been dealt with in this Chamber during this parliamentary term. There may have been some excesses here, but the whole debate has been contained in some way. Thank you, and I hope that it will continue to do so, because this debate is being heard by ordinary people, by ordinary families, by their children, by couples, and they deserve respect from this hall and from every one of us in the House. So after the committee had dealt with whether or not to continue to consult experts, whether or not the report will come into this Chamber, whether it is necessary or not, the committee voted on whether or not to reject the report. We voted in favour of the rejected report and this was also the opinion of the committee. The committee therefore proposes that this citizens' initiative, which is now being discussed, which proposes the repeal of the equal marriage law, be rejected and that the gender-neutral marriage law come into force at the beginning of March. I really hope that this big hall will end up rejecting this citizens' initiative, people can be confident that there will be an order in this country that, once a parliament has passed some law, when the President of the Republic has confirmed it, when all the accompanying laws have been dealt with, then we can really count on that, and when people are planning their own lives, they will not have to think about whether there will still be some movement in the other direction, and I really hope that the House of Parliament will have a broad sense, including those who, from the outset, were not in favour of an equal marriage law, but now will understand that human rights, people's lives, people's plans, when they mirror them against the law, really should not play ping. We must not go forward and backward in turn, but we must move forward in a systematic way so that the lives of these people are respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u148	Mr President! I must say from the outset that this is a rather tired debate. How many times do we really have to democratically decide that we should join other civilized countries and say that love belongs to everyone? Can we finally honor the fact that love belongs to everyone? Can we finally put an end to these repulsive dramas and the humiliation of people over and over again? It is obvious that the last encore of rainbow phobia is now taking place in this Chamber. The band's already played everything they had to, and now it's time to stop. It would have been time to stop so many times. It is confusing to see how the equality of people and the right of people to get married mean nothing to some political movements and individual representatives. It's a shock every time. Mr President! The will2013 citizens' initiative will become an equal marriage law in two weeks' time. In two weeks, many people in Finland will finally marry their loved ones. This is a happy thing — cause for celebration. In two weeks' time, Finland will be a fairer, more diverse and better country than today, at the moment. When the March of Love comes, I hope with all my heart that we will remember the humanity that we all share. We are many kinds of people, and there are many kinds of love. This initiative is now being overthrown by the unequal marriage law and the equal marriage law is being celebrated in March.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u149	Mr President! First of all, of course, we must thank these signatories to the citizens' initiative that this initiative has been brought before us, and we finally got it on time when a little momentum was put in place. And I think it was Mr Kärnä who made it clear in public that it is precisely the price for him to cooperate with the government that this initiative is here. Of course, the Finns are a key player here, which will ultimately make it possible for them to come to the vote, and it is nice that representatives of the government parties, or at least one representative now, have recognised it and this will then become clear to the public. Mr President! We are dealing with a truly citizen's initiative on marriage and its current status as a legal agreement between one man and one woman and as a hallmark of our hetero-normative culture and as a foundation. This citizens' initiative has been legally collected under democratic rules and brought to Parliament because marriage as a millennium cultural institution has now been seriously questioned by liberal or liberal parliamentarians in the form in which we know it. Marriage would be redefined as sexual neutrality, with reference to the ultimate purpose of marriage. Mr President! Let us say what is said today, the fact is that marriage has originally been given birth to protect a relationship from slump and their consequences. It has been sought to create a cultural counter-power against the instincts of the basic unit of society, the family, that emphasizes nature but at the same time recognises the dangers of nature. The fact that children are also present today among persons of the same sex, whose children may also have been conceived without sex, does not change this historical fact, even though, with reference to today’s diverse relationships and family forms, there is always an attempt to justify the next liberal measure, as it were, by means of salami tactics. Personally, I see that exceptions confirm the rule, namely that we cannot change our cultural rules under the conditions of the gender minorities in the fundamental hetero-normative sex division on which our society is very much based. I would stress that I am not questioning the personal orientation of any homosexual on the grounds of any integrity or direct appeal to religion, but to common sense. In principle, only a pair of men and women have the opportunity to have offspring, joint offspring through their own germ cells, but, for example, the female couple does not. The fact that, for example, so-called self-employed women are now allowed in the legislation to have artificial insemination — which cannot therefore be regarded as treatment — should not have led to new requirements. However, this has now been the case, and it casts doubt on the many liberalisations of the legislation, which always justify the next step. It's salami tactics. Artificial insemination for self-employed women has been justified in practice in the past by the fact that it is better to give a woman the child she wants to have in that way than to force her hopes for her own child in some other way — to which she has full rights if she wants to act immorally. The legislator has therefore sought to respond to social mild phenomena, such as individualism, rather than condemnation, through acceptance and encouragement. To a certain point, that is a good thing, but I think that at the point when the child has been ordered, I think we are going too far. This still does not mean that two women, for example, cannot be a good parent and a good adult for a child, but it does go too far at that point if, in the name of value-neutrality, schools start teaching children that babies are not necessarily part of a relationship only in principle, but that a baby can even be ordered by artificial insemination alone and that is all right, as good as committing to another person and that relationship and commitment are born of a child. With this kind of nonsense, children are raised to total perversion. Mr President! I am not against homosexuals and I do not accept discrimination or bullying against homosexuals, but I am against the extreme individual orientation that the majority of Parliament is promoting through the adoption of a gender-neutral marriage law. The first victim in this gender-neutral spray has been the truth. This citizens' initiative for a genuine marriage is the last attempt to save it from a false future that some people here are laughing at, vexing the legitimacy of the statement of opinions of others, questioning the junta. The fanatical and total attitude that has been expressed in this process by many people who have pursued a gender-neutral marriage law is quite horrifying. What do you think's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u150	Mr President! I very much regret the fact that the right of happiness of people who love the same sex is once again called into question in Parliament's plenary session. We in Parliament decide on the laws of the Finnish state, not on the beliefs of any religion. But since so many use Christianity and the Bible as an argument, let me recount just how, in history, during Finland’s independence, even in my own life, perceptions have changed as to what is Christian marriage and what is above all acceptable. Today, a person who strongly expresses his Christianity may divorce his or her marriage mate, remarry and live in a cohabiting relationship. When I was a teenager, extramarital sex was considered a great sin. Where we're talking about a common-law relationship, we were talking about a pair of wolves. At confessional camp, I was taught that a kiss is a sin if you are not at least engaged. At school, we read in the Bible that Jesus forbids divorced persons to remarry. On several occasions, my history teacher expressed his discontent at the fact that President Paasikivi, about 20 years earlier, had vetoed a law that would have given priests the right to refuse to marry divorced people in a new marriage. The school I went to was expelled from a high school girl because she had become pregnant. It was not until about 1970 that a pregnant girl was allowed to continue her schooling. So this is a change in my life. When Finland became independent, marriage was not equal. It was not until the 1930 Marriage Law that married wives were released from the custody of their husbands. Two years ago, the candidate for Tieto-Finlandia was Tiina Miettinen's book The Kingdom of the Silicones. It tells about women’s lives in Finland in the 17th and 17th centuries and is largely based on procedural documents. In Sweden of those centuries, to which Finland was a member, it was a heavy crime that resulted in the death penalty. There were cases where spouses were separated from each other, for example because of war and had not been informed of each other for years. Although the newly married person sincerely thought his original mate had died, he was sentenced to death if it became apparent afterwards that the original mate was alive. In the 1990s, Catholic researcher John Boswell published a study of the early church’s attitude toward male marriages. According to him, for centuries the church blessed male couples with very similar ceremonies as heterosexual couples were married. In the fourth century, Emperor Constantine, who made Christianity an official state religion, banned homosexual alliances. But as late as 1061, in Galicia, Spain, in the municipality of Rairiz de Veiga, the priest married two men in the chapel, Pedro Diaz and Muño Vandilazi. The documents were found here in the monastery of San Salvador de Celanova. As far as the Old Testament is concerned, there are many different kinds of marriage. Abraham and Sarah were children of the same father, that is, siblings or half sisters. Both Abraham and Jacob also had children with the handmaids. King Solomon had 700 royal wives and 300 concubines. The Mosaic Law provides that if a man dies without a male child, the husband’s brother must take the widow as his wife and join him. So it is good for Bible appealers to remember that the Bible provides a wide range of instructions and the way the Bible is read has at all times been linked to the society and era that is being lived. In the history of mankind, the attitude toward marriage has varied. At least two of Rome's emperors lived in league with a man. In ancient Greece, at least some considered love relationships between men to be more noble than those between men and women, which were, of course, essential for producing legal heirs. In addition to ancient Greece and Rome, same - sex unions were known at least in Mesopotamia and some southern provinces of China. Mr President! By appealing to the Bible or tradition, we will not really get out of the tree for long. Religious communities themselves set their own rules. We are here to legislate on the laws of the Finnish state. It is a question of how we deal with human dignity and love. I want to live, and I want my children and grandchildren to live, in a society that recognises the dignity of minorities. I want our society to also communicate to children and young people: You have full dignity, no matter what identity you have. And even if you're still uncertain about your identity, every human being is equally valuable. That is also what our Constitution means. The equal marriage law, which was adopted by the previous parliament, is not out of place for anyone. The love of adults, full human beings, is not from others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u151	Mr President! If the authentic marriage initiative receives a majority of the votes in Parliament, it will otherwise repeal the marriage law that enters into force on 1 March. The Constitutional Committee has argued that the traditional concept of marriage does not violate human rights or the Constitution. It would be strange to think otherwise. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I represent, has considered that the legal situation prior to the legislation being repealed has not been considered to be unconstitutional, even though the legislation proposed for repeal is, in its view, more compatible with Article 6 of the Constitution than the previous legal situation. It should be noted that the right to marriage guaranteed by Article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights does not imply any obligation to allow persons of different sexes to marry. The case falls within the discretion of each of the Contracting States. So we can also decide to regard the concept of marriage as traditional, as it has been in Finland’s 100-year history. The then bishop of Helsinki, Eero Huovinen, stated in his statement to Parliament 24. April 1, 2001: "The long history of mankind shows that the relationship between man and woman is fundamental to the relationship between men and women. Jewish and Christian tradition are associated with this common human thinking. For the continuation of life and the balanced development of social life, marriage and family play an invaluable role. Therefore, government should give marriage a clear ‘favorability status’. A wise talk from a thoughtful Christian thinker. It was stated in the Committee on Legal Affairs that a citizens' initiative in favour of traditional marriage will be brought here in plenary session. Such an important issue of value must be resolved by voting in plenary. It is a question of parliamentary discretion. It's a definition of marriage. Mr President! I respect democracy and Finnish law. But my world view doesn't change. For me, marriage is now and always an institution between one man and one woman. Each person has a world view — Christian, atheistic, nonreligious, or some other religion. Freedom of religion and opinion safeguard every right to its world view. I respect all those people who have used their democratic influence through the citizens' initiative. The Parliament has properly dealt with both the citizens' initiative aimed at amending the earlier marriage law and the present one. As a Member of Parliament, I live with the decision taken by the Parliament. My line's holding up. I voted against the so-called accompanying laws on the amendment of the marriage law and will vote in favour of this citizens' initiative. It has been suggested in the media that this is now a case of transparency. When the marriage law was amended, 101 MPs voted in favour of the amendment to the marriage law, its citizens' initiative, and 90 voted against. Since then, parliamentary elections have taken place and the power relations in Parliament have changed. Here I am looking in particular at the parliamentary group in the centre. In my view, the centre has represented a rational conservative line in Finland in this respect. I hope there is a conservative spirit in the air. It has also been mentioned here that this would be a worthless situation in some way where we are. In this connection, I would like to remind and thank you that 106,000 Finns have signed this citizens' initiative. I think it is very valuable for democracy that they have done so, as valuable as the fact that, in the past, a significant number also signed a citizens' initiative in favour of amending the law on marriage. Mr President! I'm not impressed by what he's saying, but I'm impressed by what he's doing. Everyone must remember that the law governing marriage recognizes the autonomy of the churches. Let us not forget that religious communities have the right to determine their wedding practices regardless of legal changes. It is quite true that in Parliament we do not decide how, for example, the Evangelical Lutheran Church works here. But it should also be noted that a number of MPs have argued that if the marriage law changes, the church must change its practices, position, view of marriage. As a member of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, I find it incomprehensible that some church priests are going against church teaching and rules. If a Lutheran church officially changes its view of marriage, then I, and I believe that many other Finns, must find themselves a new church. Mr President! Is it time for a new Reformation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u152	Mr President! We all have a world view. My vision of the world rests on undivided human dignity. If we look at the history of this country, under which conditions Finland became independent, then it was decided that the Finnish state, this new, new, independent state, will take forward progress, education and civilisation in this country. The first president of our republic, K. J. Ståhlberg, was also the authors of our first constitution, and the Constitution already went on to improve people's rights. Tried to overcome the traumas and difficulties of civil war. It was ensured that people were raised from poverty, that the vulnerable were taken care of. I personally believe that, in the spirit of progress and education, we must always defend humanity, seek improvements in equality, seek the way that we are all equal in this country. Sexual minorities, gender minorities and other such minorities, which have been hard hit in recent decades, have earned the fact that now, at last, equal marriage law and other laws improving the status of sexual and gender minorities have been implemented. They have been bullied, discriminated against and now have the opportunity to marry on 1.3 on an equal footing. This is of great importance to all young people who feel that they are having difficulties because they are discriminated against, or who experience insecurity or even mental health problems because they feel that they have not been accepted in this country as they are. It is now very important for this Parliament to take seriously the responsibility it has for taking forward progress and civilisation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a position on this issue. The Committee's opinion is in itself a strong statement that, while the citizens' initiative institution is valuable and various citizens' initiatives can be taken, it is not a good thing for the principles of the citizens' initiative institution to try to counter initiatives and it is not very consistent with the spirit of this institution. The committee also noted that it is problematic for equality to go on to undermine the rights of same-sex couples. And particularly emphatically, the committee said that retrospectively rights cannot be removed. In addition, in the hearings of the committee, a clear majority of experts showed that fundamental and human rights are subject to a rule such as a ban on the undermining of fundamental rights: the right once given, a fundamental human right, cannot be taken away. Once people have been made equal, they cannot be discriminated against again. That is why I feel that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not as good as I would have liked it to be. It did not respond to the clear view of the majority of experts that this bill was clearly in place before 1.3. fails to deal with it in the big room. I myself also proposed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that we should clearly have recorded that the reasons behind the Constitution are in favour of rejecting this draft law. This was not explicitly recorded in the opinion, but the opinion of the committee was still so strong that the legislative committee with responsibility could have made a decision — which would have been valuable and respectful to people of the same sex, to these couples and to their children who are awaiting this marriage right, which they have 1.3. — not to submit a report on this matter. Now a very special gap theory was used, which was made possible by the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee, but which is not valuable: hastened by the hasty decision of the Legal Committee to vote here on this matter, the removal of justice, which has already been passed by law, has been confirmed by the President of the Republic, and during the transitional period it is stated that you do not yet have this right, it is only two weeks from now, the audacious, we will bring this to the great Chamber and we will see if it can be taken away from you. I think this is a worthless play, and this play is the result of the fact that the Coalition Party and the Centre have promised this to President Soin, Minister Soin in the government. I think that the assembly and the centre would have a little time to think about what message they send to the same-sex couples and their families because they wanted to bring this matter here two weeks before the court came into force. It is highly questionable in terms of policy coherence and values. And I would like to thank Mr Kärnä, who also made this very clear to the public that this has been agreed. Mr Kärnä said that this was the agreement, and he apologized for it, and I appreciate it. Mr President! The institution of citizens' initiatives is valuable. We do not need to change it, we do not need to limit it, but we need to think about what is a valuable way for all Finns to deal with them when dealing with citizens' initiatives. The main rule is that a report on the citizens' initiative will be made, but in this case, when it comes to fundamental and human rights issues, where people have been given the right, which the Constitutional Committee also says is a right that cannot be removed retrospectively any longer, it would have been clever and well thought out not to do a report and would have shown that the whole of this Parliament supports the line that the previous Parliament chose in the development of legislation. It would have been more valuable, but now this debate is taking place in this Chamber for God knows how many times — it has probably been here dozens of times in the last 20 years — and the unfortunate thing is that the people affected by this debate have to hear the same accusations over and over again about their way of life. I should like to say, of course, that today's debate has been worth a little more than the previous times, and in that sense, opponents of the equal marriage law have taken note of the fact that the legal situation has already progressed, and in that sense I see that progress has also been made on them. But I strongly urge that, although this matter has now been brought to the House for vote, we can demonstrate by our own deliberations and vote that the overwhelming majority of this Parliament wishes to demonstrate that Finland is a country in which fundamental and human rights are improved and never weakened, they will never be taken away. I therefore also appeal to those Members of Parliament who have previously opposed this equal marriage to show your support for the rule of law and fundamental and human rights in voting in favour of the law currently in force, in favour of an equal marriage law and against the law abolishing this equal marriage. I would therefore like to stress that we have an existing law. This law is already in force, it only contains a transitional provision, which is why this issue is here in the debate. At the end of this transitional provision within two weeks, I believe that the majority of Finns are celebrating with same-sex couples, and I want the majority of this House to participate in the celebration through the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u153	We shall take the floor for a brief debate on the previous speech. I give the floor to the representatives of Laukkanen, Elo, Huhtasaari, Tanus and Tolvanen. Is there anyone else? — Ja Nurminen. So this is what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u154	Mr President! Mr Niinistö is a fairly broad interpretation of this opinion of the Constitutional Committee. Firstly, this sitting is today because if this genuine marriage were to win the vote, it would have to be in the President's presentation on 24 February so that it would come into force before 1.3. In other words, these arguments, which Mr Niinistö here states, that there is an intermediate state here and that a law is already in force, are not true. Then there is this legal situation: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs specifically stated that this issue can be dealt with without a separate reading, provided that it comes into force before 1.3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u155	Mr President! Mr Niinistö is also sitting in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as he himself is, and I think that we have had a very good and well-founded debate there on these issues, which he raised. I must say that the starting point of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that, before this law comes into force at the beginning of March, such a citizens' initiative can be discussed in Parliament. Of course, it does say that this is not a constitutional problem, but there is no direct obstacle to this from the point of view of the Constitution. It's important to take this into account. Mr Laukkanen has made an excellent point in this legislative process. In my opinion, it is common sense that, indeed, before the law has come into force, such a procedure can be carried out. And I really can't think of this as a worthless play. I always find it valuable to deal with a democratically imported citizens' initiative in this Chamber. And this is the right place to vote on such an important issue of value — Mr Niinistö's and Mr Elon's.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u156	Mr President! Nor do I understand what is meant by the word "valueless play". There are actors in the play. Which of them are worthless? As far as the experts in the Constitutional Committee are concerned, if they are allowed to decide on their own, that is, if the experts say they go there alone or according to their majority, then we politicians are not needed. That, after all, political power is democratically elected in this Parliament and that is how decisions are taken. With regard to this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs has stated that restricting the regulation of the marriage law only between men and women is not a problem for the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, because the regulation of relationships is a matter of national discretion. And in Austria, just a short while ago, they voted for the real thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u157	Mr President! To Mrs Niinistö, I would say that this is marriage, the most important basic institution in society, changing in a very radical way and has implications for a great many areas of society. I do not know whether Mr Niinistö was in the Chamber, but I would like to remind you that we have same-sex couples who are opposed to the gender-neutral marriage law because it deprives them of the possibility of having a registered relationship. And when it takes them away from having a registered relationship, I don't know what you'll answer to them when they talk about human rights, about equal rights for all, if we have some couples to travel abroad to get this kind of legal registration. The alternative for them is to make a will, while the law on marriage and the law on relationships separately can also take into account the rights and possibilities of all different couples in Finland. It is Western democracy, it is equality for all, and therefore separation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u158	Mr President! I see Congressman Niinistö is continuing to hammer the law committee. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... Mr Niinistö believes that citizens' initiatives should be treated with dignity, and now the Committee on Legal Affairs has made a valuable contribution here — not to blame the Committee on Legal Affairs, but to blame the law. Then because of the representative Mrs Niinistö is a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I wish you had made sure that this opinion had come to us earlier, not on Friday, when Members and the committee adviser are forced to work hard to get this matter moving. This matter came to you in October, so you could have taken care of it. I understand that you have been under a lot of pressure there, but you also said that you could have received some statements from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this is not good, this is worthless and so on, but it was not there. So there is no point in this now being accused of this by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u159	Mr Nurminen then responded to Mr Niinistö and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u160	Mr President! I am very happy that the equal marriage law will finally enter into force in Finland in about a couple of weeks. I have listened to this debate, and there has been quite a lot of cultured fear and it has been said that this radically changes something, but I do not see it that way, but precisely from the point of view that couples of the same sex are finally recognised as equal in our society. I think this is extremely important in this time period. This Decision also strengthens human rights, humanity and equality and strengthens the rights and equality of sexual and gender minorities. I would like to remind you that we are currently celebrating the 100th anniversary of Finland, and I would like this anniversary to be remembered for not compromising fundamental and human rights in Finland. I hope this will be remembered in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u161	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen corrected me quite correctly on one point. I think I inadvertently said that this law is already in force, but I tried to say that it has already been adopted and confirmed and, with the entry into force provision, it enters into force 1.3. This Regulation shall But what I want to emphasise is that the strong position of the constitutional experts was that once fundamental and human rights have been given it cannot be taken away. Now we are using a very special transitional rule to ensure that this issue is at all present in this Chamber in the debate, and I am sure that everyone will be able to recognise that this is a very special situation, because this initiative would no longer be here, according to the interpretation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if this were to happen in a month's time. So here we are using this kind of hole to have another conversation about whether the fundamental human and fundamental right, which has already already been passed by law, can take people away just because it is a couple of weeks away. I think it is worthless, but what we can now demonstrate is that we are voting in favour of a clear majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u162	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u163	Mr President! Let's be brief. First of all, I want to make it right that the matter before us is not a play that is worthless. Whoever can't take this conversation, let's get out of here. I think, at least for me, this is a very important issue. As a defective Christian first, these are fundamental values, and then it is also important to me what I read in this short paper, that now and in the future, forever, marriage is a union between man and woman. With this initiative, the signatories of the citizens' initiative have wanted us here in Parliament to decide that marriage is indeed a union between man and woman. And I have the right to criticise a gender-neutral marriage, just as those who accept this have thought that we are some special people who do not understand these equals and people's lives. The limitation of the right to marriage is not only a question of discrimination or human rights between a man and a woman; it has become clear here. At present, the law on relationships guarantees couples of the same sex the same rights as the law on marriage to a union between men and women, and so these minority rights have been well taken into account. The union between man and woman, which includes father and mother, does not cease to be the only possible organic institution, no matter how many laws we legislate to make it something else. That's just the way it is. We can't change the laws of nature as humans. Both male and female reproductive cells are needed for the continuation of the human race. This is the truth that cannot be influenced by legislation. It is up to decision-makers to protect children and to monitor the implementation of children's rights. A child has the right to a father and a mother. The gender-neutral marriage law defines marriage on the terms of adults so that it no longer includes the child’s right to grow up in the care of his biological father and mother. In the homes of same - sex couples, children have always been separated from their biological father or mother. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child calls for priority to be given to the best interests of the child in all decisions affecting children. The preparation of major legislative changes in family law should always be accompanied by an assessment of the impact of children. It has not been drafted in the draft amendment to the law on marriage, and since this amendment would have a fundamental impact on the realisation of the rights of the child, it would be a serious mistake not to take this into account. The significance of childhood experiences is important for the whole life cycle of a person. So I ask: Is it natural to raise a small child in the belief that a person can have two fathers or two mothers, which is biologically impossible? The stability of marriage in families of the same sex increases children’s nausea because it normalizes the abnormal difference between a biological father and a mother. The citizens' initiative to repeal the law amending the Law on Marriage contains a requirement for a review of the gender-neutral law on marriage in Parliament, i.e. the requirement that marriage should be maintained as a union between man and woman. There are also legal aspects to this requirement, as the amendment was partly called for by an appeal for equality and non-discrimination, but it is clear that there was no legal necessity to change the law on marriage. This decision was an ideological and political solution with profound social and family-law spillovers as we go on this for years. So the right of the sexual minority to marry a person of the same sex has not yet entered into force, and at this stage I think it is appropriate to open it up, as has been discussed here, and to correct it. After reconsidering matters, I hope that everyone will form their position in such a way that the child’s best interests are first and marriage is a union between man and woman. Time will tell you what the next step is. Nevertheless, I respect all people, but as legislator, it is a very simple matter for me that marriage is and will always be a union between man and woman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u164	Mr President! For me, this matter before us is quite simple. For me, an equal marriage is a genuine marriage and a genuine marriage is an equal marriage, because I think marriage is a marriage between two people who love each other. In this direction, Finland will finally take a step on 1.3 as the equal marriage law enters into force. However, I accept that someone else thinks differently about this matter. No matter how many speeches we make here, it would hardly be the kind of person who would support the law of equal marriage, who would be opposed to it or who would be opposed to the law of equal marriage. I hope that, when we vote on this citizens' initiative, we will send out a strong message that the happy day that rainbow families and those couples have been waiting for will be 1.3. I myself am voting against this citizens' initiative because I want to make it possible for rainbow families to have the same right as we do for straight couples. This debate has taken place many times in this Chamber. Even none of us can come up with any new arguments, and we all have more to justify ourselves, which is why we believe and think as we do. That, of course, is largely what democracy is all about. But I would still like to hope that in the spirit of independence in the centenary year, in accordance with the theme of Together, together when the Parliament makes the decision, it will then be the chatter away. Everyone will certainly retain their own personal opinion, but after that this issue would have been resolved and we will move towards equality. Mr President! Let me say a few more words about this institution of citizens' initiatives. There has also been a lot of discussion here about whether the law on the citizens' initiative should be amended. It is a good reflection, but perhaps I myself would be more concerned with what the law already allows for the parliamentary committees. In contrast to the government's proposals, it is not necessary for the committees to draw up reports. So we don't have to bring them back to the big hall again. I believe that there has been an in-depth debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the question of whether this initiative could have been found to have been dealt with in committee as well, which would have saved us this debate in the Chamber. It is not, of course, the fault of the signatories to the citizens' initiatives that these initiatives come here, but it is good to see what the risk lies in the fact that if every citizen's initiative is to be brought here by means of a report, then it will make it possible to re-examine what has already been decided here and again. This is the first case in that sense. The next is already on the way, when the citizens' initiative on the health law has already exceeded the 50000 signatories' threshold, and it will discuss again here in the plenary session then the Hospital of Vaasa. Once and for all, we come here to discuss things again and again. That is why I would like to see the committees, in the future, make greater use of the opportunity given to them by the legislator to refrain from producing a report on each of the citizens' initiatives. In the Committee on Administration itself, we came across this in the same autumn when we discussed the citizens' initiative to expel a foreigner who committed the crime. Surely the authors of the initiative meant that the initiative would have tightened up the current law. In fact, if Parliament had accepted its proposals on the basis of the citizens' initiative, the law would have been relaxed. Even then, the Committee on Administrative Affairs would have been able to say that the citizens' initiative will not result in any further action. Therefore, Mr President, I hope that this debate around and around the citizens' initiative will continue to take place in the future and will consider whether there will be legislative changes, but also operational changes, here in Parliament. However, I would like to end with what I have always said in this marriage debate, so many times, that in spite of everything, I hope that people will continue to marry and love each other. Fortunately, after 1.3, this right belongs to more people than it currently is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u165	Mr President! All people are equal and equal, but not all forms of social life are marriages. The gender-neutral marriage law proposed for entry into force on 1.3. does not increase equality. Instead, it radically changes the definition of marriage. However, just as little as a law can turn squares into circles by enacting a law on angular neutral circles — as little — can by law change what marriage really is. Marriage between men and women is a basic unit of organized society. When the law is implemented, a gender-neutral marriage will cause confusion and conflict in society, in school education and in homes, and, as has already been seen, also in churches, where the law should not have any effect, as we have been assured. There is therefore no reason to believe that the law will not have negative spill-over effects on the rest of society. In the long run, this causes confusion and anxiety in children. The best and highest-quality family sociological research available shows beyond doubt that, in general, the best condition for a child’s balanced development is provided by a home made up of a man and woman living in the most irreconcilable marriage, the father and mother of the child. Until now, marriage, recognised as a marriage between men and women, has guaranteed the birthright of the father and mother to the child born in the marriage. With the amendment of the law, a common, enriching influence on the life of a child, based on the differences between father and mother, is taken from marriage. How can advocates of law change truly say that they respect diversity when, at the same time, they are prepared to impoverish the child’s chances of enriching their lives by the very difference that a man and woman in marriage, as a father and mother, set by example? The current law on marriage is not contrary to the Constitution or to human rights. No one really thinks that 100 years in Finland has been a law against the constitution and human rights? If Parliament now decides to change the marriage law, it will do so contrary to the experience of all known human history and the accumulated wisdom. Ask the children why marriage through mankind’s history has been a man - woman marriage, and you get the answer: Because the children need a father and a mother. All people are equal, but only marriage as a union between men and women gives children equal birth rights to both father and mother. It is very sad that a genuine and original marriage institution between a woman and a man has now been put on the bench of the accused. It is deliberately but completely wrong to see it as discrimination, phobia or religious relics, so that the meaning of marriage is forced by law into something else than it has been. The amendment to the Marriage Act aims to promote a gender-neutral ideology, and that is one of the key reasons. Why in Finnish law has marriage until these days been limited to a woman and a man? Because marriage has been seen as a benefit to society, a fundamental institution that gives the child a mother and father. So the state is not interested in romance, but in families, in the preservation of society and in moving forward. It is not wise to change the meaning of marriage and thus remove from our society the only institution that promotes the child’s right to know and to grow up in their care. The gender-neutral marriage law indicates that it does not matter whether the child’s roots are cut off from his mother and father. The amendment to the Marriage Act should also increase the pressure to allow surrogate births, to open and extend fertility treatments, to change school education on gender, which is, unfortunately, already done. It would also, when it came into force, restrict freedom of expression and expression, which unfortunately has already happened in Finland, and it would also lead to a challenge to the concept of marriage of churches, possibly even in courts. The gender-neutral marriage law also includes the right to external adoption. It really does not matter whether a child receives two fathers, two mothers or both — mother and father. When a child has already lost his or her parents, it is really sad to think of the child if he or she does not have a substitute experience for both mother and father. It is entirely ethically and legally justified to keep the law of a registered partnership and the law of marriage between a woman and a man separate. I hope that the Members of Parliament in this Chamber will understand that this is exactly how the separation between the law on marriage and the law on relationships serves all of us in the last games, including different kinds of relationships. Finnish voters are watching closely whether there are decision-makers who dare and want to stand on the side of the family, the rights of the child and the most common thing in the world — marriage. This Parliament has never voted in favour of the amendment to the Marriage Act. Soon there will be a chance, and I appeal to the Members of Parliament: open your eyes and understand that, for the future and for the well-being of society, it is in everyone's interest to separate the law on marriage and the law on relationships. The Committee on the Future often wonders where society is going, where we would like it to go and, on the other hand, what good and valuable we want to preserve for future generations from history and from this day on. Marriage, a union between men and women, both for children and for the continuity of society, is a very special union, different from all other relationships, and it is therefore wise to keep it to future generations as an institution separate from other relationships. I would like to say thank you to the authors of the citizens' initiative and to all those who have worked so hard and all who have signed it. For me, as for the majority of Finns, marriage is and will always remain the union between man and woman. For me, it also means a Bible covenant between one man and one woman, and it will remain so, no matter how Bibles are rewritten in rainbow colors. And I hope that there will indeed be the courage to vote according to the will of the majority of the people, i.e. to maintain the current law on marriage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u166	Mr President! The citizens' initiative has been in place since 1 March 2012 and, yes, it has proved necessary to increase citizens' opportunities to bring important, often value-based, complex and popular issues to public debate and parliamentary deliberations. This hall is the right place, whether it is euthanasia or the concept of marriage, to have a conversation, to bring out information and perspectives in all colors of the rainbow. But unfortunately, black and white are the main colors of the conversation here too. Nevertheless, the political debate on values is always valuable. However, I find it rather frustrating to have the same debate again as the Teletaps. Several representatives have pointed out, quite rightly, the need to reform the system of citizens' initiatives. Now, let's get on with this work quickly. I don't think any of us really want to go on like this. I am not criticising the signatories of any citizens' initiative. On the contrary, legal civic activity is always worth thanking. However, I was very proud of our parliamentarians when Parliament adopted the citizens' initiative I want to 2013, and then I could not imagine that now, as a Member of Parliament itself, I will have to ensure justice by voting against this counter-initiative. The goal in value issues must be to build a more open, equal and equal Finland at a time. The status of children has been sufficiently discussed, inter alia, in connection with the processing of accompanying laws. I just want to say that no scientifically sustainable research supports the view that the gender or sexual orientation of a parent or parent is a key factor in the balanced growth or development of a child. Instead, there is very strong evidence that a good relationship between parents gives the child the best starting point for building his future. Is it not, therefore, that equal marriage law will improve the position of children? I am happy to share the responsibility for changing the legal marriage institution so that all adults have equal opportunities for it. I would like to congratulate all the couples whose marriage will be possible in a few weeks' time. Hopefully we will see plenty of joyful, happy moments in a spirit of genuine love.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u167	Mr President! When such a system has been established in Finland, in which the people can take initiatives in connection with certain specified criteria, I think it is self-evident that any initiative that meets those criteria will be treated in the same way — even when the initiatives are opposed to each other. There is room for opinion in the people, and we are here as legislators to carry out the will of the people through representative democracy. It is natural for each action to be followed by a reaction. The citizens' initiative before us has been the result of a marriage law adopted by the previous government, which was also based on the citizens' initiative. However, these initiatives must be based on caution, because they do not represent the will of the people as a whole. There is a risk that Parliament will row and felt with opposing initiatives, as is happening now. In my opinion, the amendment of the marriage law was a mistake in the first place, and I personally support the citizens' initiative that is being discussed here today. With regard to the consistency of legislation and respect for the parliamentary decisions of the previous period, it should be noted that there is a revolution in marriage law that is breaking almost a century of continued coherence since the independence of our nation. In the meantime, new elections have taken place, and Parliament is now reflecting the social development that has taken place during the last period. I hope that Parliament will vote against the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the maintenance of marriage, as it did last season when it voted on gender-neutral law. Mr President! As the biggest individual issue, I am apprehensive about the right to adopt gay couples through the new law. The impact of the law on society is much wider than the mere granting of equal rights to gay couples. It will change the definition of a core unit of society, that is, a family. The family is a natural unit where the parents of the children belong to the mother and father. The adoption right for gay couples deprives a child of the right to a mother and father, both of whom bring their own special qualities to parenting. The balanced growth of a child into adulthood requires the role model of both father and mother. Children raised by same-sex couples are at risk of being bullied at school, for example. In addition, some studies suggest that children raised by same - sex couples are more prone to depression, substance abuse, and even suicides at worst compared to the rest of the population. Mr President! I believe that the will of the biological parents who give up adoption should be respected as to the kind of family the child can enter. It should also be borne in mind that the amendment of the law may close and prevent the conditions for international adoption. Countries with a wealth of adopted children often have conservative, religious traditions that do not accept gay marriages and thus do not give up children for adoption. The question is, is this in the best interests of these children? Gay couples have had sufficient legislation through registered partnerships and their different status with marriage is not discriminatory on the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If the present initiative wins the vote, the preparation of amendments to the law must be stopped and returned to the time before the drafting of the accompanying laws. As far as the state religion is concerned, it is the church's own internal matter which it will marry. The church has its own law book for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u168	Mr President! Whose troops are you standing in? Tomorrow I may stand as a minority in this room. A majority may vote in favour of gender-neutral ideology. Representative Satu Hassi was quite right: in history, if we look back, many times moral views, marriage concepts and other things have been thrown away. Especially when we reach the other extreme, we go to full limitlessness, and then we take back. Now we are taking back: in the United States Trump, a very conservative president, was elected; In France, you can no longer become president if you are not immigration critical and conservative — Fillon and Le Pen are both conservatives. In Austria, just a short time ago, there was a vote in favour of a truly equal marriage law. In fact, Finland is now a little behind. But there will always be new governments, there will always be new coalitions, and we will always have the opportunity to make a better policy. For some reason this institution of marriage was made a human rights issue. For some reason, it was made an issue of equality, although it is not. For some reason it was made a measure — that by this we measure the value of man and the value of families. We're not supposed to measure the value of any family at the marriage institution. We've always had very different families. We also have a lot of heterosexual families that don't want to get married. They're equally valuable. It's never been about that. The right to a marriage is not the same as the right to love or be together for the rest of your life. But I am particularly concerned that tomorrow, if this truly equal marriage disappears, what happens to adoption, will we still be able to adopt children from Russia? At least I would like to have St. Peter's street children in Finnish families. We need to make sure that parents have the right to decide what is given the most precious thing you have, that is, your child — the most precious one. We need to make sure that the parents retain this right to decide. Another thing to worry about is that the laws and practices governing the marriage of the church are fragmented in the marriage law, the church law and the church order. Since uncertainty has already arisen as to whether a qualified ecclesiastical ceremony can be carried out contrary to the forms and conditions assigned to itself by the religious community, the regulation on the matter should be specified in order to maintain ecclesiastical autonomy in the ceremony. I don't think anyone in this room wants to take away the right of conscience from the priests. I have listened to this discussion, and there has been an issue here that is not to talk about the Bible or about God or about Jesus. Why shouldn't he? Do we not have unlimited freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, freedom of religion in this Chamber? At least the freedom of gender-neutral ideology is! Let us allow all the other ideologies, ideas andisms. After all, we all make decisions on the basis of our own values. And I would also like to point this out — although this has been mentioned many times in this Chamber — because it is not clear to anyone: the Committee on Legal Affairs has stated in its report that restricting the regulation of the marriage law only between men and women is not a problem for the Constitution or for the European Convention on Human Rights, because the regulation of a relationship is a matter of national discretion. — It is very good to end this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u169	Mr President! It is good that the citizens' initiative to defend the traditional concept of marriage has been brought to Parliament and now also to this first reading. Thank you to all those who have signed the initiative, including me. Of course, almost everything that has to be said has been said today and has already been said many times in this House, and we here will certainly not be able to turn any of our fellow Members into a different position. Fortunately, however, today's debate has remained largely relevant, although the differences of opinion are, of course, clear. In his own speech, Mr Heinonen raised the possibility of granting so-called negative votes when citizens' initiatives were signed. This idea of Mr Heinonen contains a certain logic in principle, but I personally would prefer it to be possible for such a subject, which weighs values and ethical views, to be taken directly into the referendum in the future. This would allow all citizens of voting age to make their own views known. Direct democracy, like Switzerland, would demonstrate the true will of the entire people, especially in matters of value, where it is easy for every citizen to form his own personal view without extensive expert consultations. I personally would estimate that there are probably considerably more conservative views among citizens in relation to the law on marriage than could be concluded on the basis of this debate in the Chamber. I myself am a supporter of traditional marriage, as I have already said in Parliament and in the Chamber. My own value conservative is based on the long history of our culture, where traditional marriage has been the cornerstone of family life for millennia. It may be that I am in a minority vote tomorrow, but that too is part of the democratic decision-making process and, on the other hand, I believe that it does not make my point of view and my position less valuable than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u170	Mr President! Rainbow families love each other. There are children growing up in rainbow families. Their lives are now being discussed here and their being questioned. We wanted with our strength in 2013 and we still do. An equal, gender-neutral marriage law was adopted on the basis of a fine citizens' initiative campaign and a citizens' initiative. That was when I received a lot of mail, of which the children’s drawings and thank - you cards were the most touching. There was another type of mail, cruel hate speech, and mocking people. It is good to remember the important message of Valentine’s Day: If you can’t be a friend, at least be a person to another. Equal marriage is about human rights. I would like to say to you who are waiting for March and the celebration of love: Yes, I do. I would like to warmly congratulate the lovers who are waiting for the wedding. You can't wreck this happiness. It is sad that the right to love equally is once again exposed to vote in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u173	Mr President! The citizens' initiative for genuine marriage is now under discussion, and this is, of course, on the basis of a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. I am firmly in favour of a marriage between a man and a woman, which I consider to be the only one and the right one. In my opinion, this debate has easily gone to such a light interpretation of equality, namely that marriage is not out of anyone's hands. It is not a question of equality by means of clear legal interpretations of marriage in our constitution and in the interpretations of the European Court of Human Rights and in the case-law that marriage is not such a violation of equality, it is just a marriage between man and woman, and I think it will be the case for centuries to come. The talk that this would prevent love even in couples of the same sex, or by what name does anyone want to call it — that's not what it means. Of course love is boundless. If a man loves a man and a woman loves a woman, I will gladly give it to them and they will live their own lives. Moreover, Finland has already filed legislation in such a position that these unions can register and thus obtain protection for the union through the law. So here again there is no inequality in the eyes of the law. In fact, this is not an issue of inequality. Mr President! I would like to look at this from the point of view of the child. I think a child should always have the right to a father and a mother, always. This ancient old principle has always ensured the weaker position, the position of its child, and the legal order has always been based on the fact that the weaker side is being put on the weaker side. After all, this is about to be abandoned, and I consider it to be a very damaging thing. Our entire Western culture and society is based on Christianity. It is the foundation, and it is the foundation for which this society has been built both in Finland and elsewhere in the West. The very fact that the marriage of a man and woman is a blessed thing lies with the sources of Christianity, and it has been an important matter for us Finns for centuries, just as it has been in all Western countries. As I said, the Western legal system has stood on the weaker side, and the legal system has also recognised the marriage, that it is not discriminatory and that it is not in any way violating anyone's rights, that is to say, the legal side is in order. Unfortunately, this debate has highlighted the phenomenon that a marriage between a man and a woman would in some way be a violation of equality when it is not granted to those of the same sex. Of this, there are clear judicial decisions that this is not a violation of equality. And when you put yourself on the weaker side, as I think you should always settle down, I think that this respect for the traditional family is exactly what I think it is to take care of the children. Of course, same-sex marriages can have children, I have no objection to it, but that does not mean that marriage should be called into question in some way for this reason. The main rule is marriage, and then we go according to it. Now that this debate has taken place, I am very pleased and pleased that the debate has remained broadly relevant and that people have respected each other’s opinions. I am just a little sad about it and find it difficult to accept the fact that this foundation stone of our society is constantly being scrapped. Christianity has always been the foundation of our society and the culture of habit, respect for and love for others, unconditional love is the big thing, and marriage between man and woman is an important part of this Finnish culture and Finnish society. I don't know what this situation will lead to, but I'm sure the history writers smarter than us will read their own judgments in time, but we won't be able to see it then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u174	Mr President! More than 100,000 names were collected by a genuine marriage citizens' initiative. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has come up with a negative report. Next week we will be voting on statements in which citizens' concerns will hopefully be understood by their representatives. The aim of this initiative is to maintain a truly equal marriage, a union between men and women, in which both sexes are equally represented. It is this union that is unique among many kinds of human relationships, for it only safeguards the continuity of society. Marriage is justified as a separate institution. Traditionally, marriage is not just a commitment between two people, but a basic unit that is central to the whole social fabric: the family and the family are built on the basis of a marriage between a woman and a man. The gender-neutral marriage law confuses concepts and narrows the meaning of marriage into a single relationship alongside others. Mr President! The previous committee of law, of which I was a member, ended two years ago with the institution of marriage, but Parliament finally decided otherwise. Even then, the committee stated that defining a marriage between a woman and a man is not contrary to the Constitution or to the European Convention on Human Rights. It does not violate fundamental rights or human rights. The regulation of a partnership is a matter of national discretion, and there are specific grounds for putting a marriage and a registered partnership in a different position. The previous Legal Committee paid particular attention to children's rights in the preparation of a gender-neutral marriage law. The committee then called for an assessment of the impact of children to be carried out in the preparation of major legislative changes in family law. This requirement is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the best interests of the child when it comes to taking priority decisions on all children. The entry into force of the gender-neutral marriage law applies to children to the greatest extent — but they have not been taken into account. As I said in my previous speech, the present government of the city centre, the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland unanimously brought to Parliament the supplementary laws of the gender-neutral marriage law, including the adoption law, and once again without an assessment of the impact of children. I still ask: why is there such a hurry? The promises that the church would be free to decide its wedding practices were also forgotten even before the law even came into force. Legally, the situation in the church has now been left so confused that in practice individual pastors can do whatever they like. It would therefore be urgent to remedy these shortcomings in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u175	Mr President! First of all, I would like to point out that this is based on the first and second legislative proposals contained in the objection. Mr President! Here, I think, at some stage of the debate — whether Mr Räsänen or Mr Kärna — it was mentioned that for every new issue that has not been presented, he promised to offer a cup of coffee. Now it has to be acknowledged that we owe Laura Huhtasaari a cup of coffee, which I think is a good point of view that all family forms are equally valuable. There are no unequal family forms, be it a rainbow family, a heterosexual family, a single parent family or family without children. All families are equal, equally valuable in the eyes of legislation and our decision-makers. What we are discussing today is changing the institution of marriage and amending the child’s adoption legislation. If, as all of us do, we are of some opinion and then disagree with someone else, let it hopefully be allowed for everyone. Nor can I understand how these terms of equality, human rights and all sorts of intolerance towards others are so easily used in this House, in this House, in this House. Black is made white, and vice versa if you want it. Mr President! I would also like to comment on what Mr Tolvanen, chairman of the Legal Committee, spoke about, and also Mr Ojala-Niemelä, on why this citizens' initiative was sent to the Constitutional Committee. What I meant in my first speech had to do with the fact that only one constitutional expert was consulted in the Committee on Legal Affairs. A constitutional expert such as was also heard in the Constitutional Committee, which stated that this citizens' initiative was not unconstitutional, could have been heard in the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u180	Mr President! Thank you to the people who have initiated this citizens' initiative and to all you dear representatives who have been initiated. I'd like to read a gay e-mail he sent me. I'll leave the name out. He himself is gay and warns against the disadvantages of sexual neutral marriage for children. "My annual honest, sound thinking has forced me to do the following,surprising conclusions : 1) The establishment of a family between two men is not comparable to a family founded by a man and a woman. ( 2) It is outright evil to deny a child parents of different sex. A child needs and needs both, a mother and a father. ‘ I know in my heart that man is good, and justice always wins in the end. Every person’s life has a clear purpose and value.” These words were spoken by Ronald Reagan in 1991. I've framed them and hung the painting above my own desk. They have been my leading star ever since I began to participate in the discussion of gender-neutral marriage from a gay man’s point of view. Although I wholeheartedly support the legalisation of registered partnerships between gays and lesbians, I am opposed to a gender-neutral marriage. Since rainbow activists have nailed a gender-neutral marriage as their ultimate goal and are not content with a registered relationship, I have been branded a self-loathing traitor. I don't mind, because my self-esteem is based on honesty and common sense. A gender-neutral marriage is already inconceivable and impossible. Political correctness, however, has made this obvious truth daring to say out loud. Sexually neutral marriage is not a marriage at all. It's something completely different. Opponents of sexual neutral marriage have been labeled in the media as the most mildly stony religious freaks. At their most severe, they have received the stamp of homophobic hate-smokers. I have always been careful not to use religion or tradition as a justification for taking a stand on this subject. Common sense and my own experiences have brought me to this conclusion." Mr President! I read from word to word this, which was such a gender-neutral type, ie, a gay type written and who thought that this doesn't make any sense. I brought it out here. And for this, as much as the Bible has been used here: Of course, it is the basis and basis of life, but it is also worth reading from Sodom and Gomorrah. Do you think we'll be coming in those days? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u181	Mr President! Firstly, I support the proposal made by Mr Niiko. A few more points on this subject, as it were, from the point of view of the legislator, which I would like to highlight: Legal scholars use such a term as "the hierarchy of legal standards". There has been a lot of talk here about what kind of legislation can be made and, in a way, self-determination, human rights, equality, equality and equality have become a mantra that is incorporated into the legislation in such a way that it does not always do justice even to the Members of Parliament who we legislate on these laws. We all know that laws have a steering effect, and it is hoped that they will lead in a certain direction. Now, in this debate — and here is a quote — the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered in its opinion on formalised partnerships already in 2001 that the adoption of marriage law and similar laws is a matter of specific solutions relating to the future and values of society, in which the placing of marriage as a special relationship between a woman and a man in law was justified. This is therefore the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The same opinion states that things can change when society changes, and this is quite true: we are living in a society where such clear world views based values such as this central symposium and interaction are so powerful that the whole Western world is looking for human significance and also for family perception in the middle of all this, that how valuable it is for example to commit to a relationship for one lifetime. I was sitting in a barbershop, and I was hit by a women’s magazine, and it said in this way that only the fourth marriage is a good marriage — only the fourth marriage — so it’s not worth being so worried about when you walk down the aisle for the first time, because you can already think that this might work out well when you get rid of it and you’re already in the binoculars. This well illustrates this transformation of values and the world in which we are now living. It is no wonder that this new generation, the young generation, believes that their right to marry someone is a human rights issue and a human dignity issue. But from this point of view it is considered that society itself has long since decided that there are some fundamental pillars and institutions whose speciality should be recognised in order to preserve society and to have its roots somewhere — roots, good representatives, so that somewhere there are roots that carry the entire society from one generation to the next. Marriage is just the kind of marriage that society as a whole should recognize as special, and it is the marriage between man and woman that brings continuity. Well, then on another matter related to this ecclesiastical autonomy: At the moment, if our presentation, if this authentic marriage does not succeed tomorrow in the vote and this gender-neutral marriage law comes into force, it means a change in the legal situation so great that because of the Church's right to decide who is to marry, we are faced with the need to clarify the law on marriage. It's no longer accurate enough. We come to this point that in order to guarantee that what has been stated in these earlier decisions — that the church can decide for itself who it is to marry — can actually become a reality, then we will have to change the law on marriage. And that is what I would like to highlight here. Mr President! This is important in such a way that, if this change is not made, we will be in a situation on the 1.3th, in which those priests who want to marry same-sex couples will be sued in the framework of the Church Act. Then again, for those who refuse to marry, some part will sue. So there will be trials on both sides of the table and so much everywhere in the country that district courts will be congested with them, because this is a sensitive matter for people and people want to make it possible for the church to genuinely have the right, within the framework of its own church law, to ensure that their decision in this matter is sufficient. — Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u182	Mr President! I, too, would like to begin by supporting that motion made by Mr Nikon, that those proposals for the first and second laws contained in the objection should indeed be taken as a basis. Mr President! For us Christian Democrats, the preservation of a marriage between a man and a woman is based on an ideological foundation and a political basis. The fact that the European Christian Democratic Party, the EPP Party, also states in its own charter that marriage is a man to woman and that marriage is a basic cell of society. It is therefore no wonder if we look at Central European countries and also South European countries, where Christian Democrats are the leading parties, that in these countries marriage has been preserved between man and woman. Then there are couple marriages and various other partnership laws for other marriages. Austria, for example, recently voted on whether a gender-neutral marriage law would enter the country and this was put to a referendum and the referendum overturned this initiative. So for us, these issues are not such electoral themes, but they are those of that Christian-democratic ideology. In Finland, we still have a working partnership law for same-sex couples in addition to the Marriage Act. In fact, it seems to me that all the time — when we were discussing this law on marriage of the same sex last season, as well as these accompanying laws which were discussed here in Parliament — there has been some conscious desire to forget that we actually have this situation in Finland, which is currently the case in a number of Member States of the European Union, that we have these separate laws. These laws are parallel and, as stated in that opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this is the state of affairs in Europe. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that this situation does not in any way violate human rights treaties. This current situation is not in any way contrary to the Finnish Constitution or the Non-Discrimination Act or to any international agreement. And I welcome the fact that this statement of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it is also relevant that Article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right to marriage and that it does not, as such, constitute an obligation to enable persons of the same sex to marry, but falls within the margin of discretion of each Contracting State. Finland will then possibly, if tomorrow we reject this objection to the genuine marriage citizens' initiative, then there will be 1.3. a minority of European countries entering this gender-neutral marriage law. It is a pity that in this way we are separating ourselves from the European mainstream. Mr President! Much has also been said about this amendment to the adoption law, which last season, when the law on marriage of the same sex was passed, went on the sidelines, as it were. In other words, there are those Members who have said that this matter was not dealt with well at the time and that it was not made clear enough that the adoption law is also changing in the same context. And we must now remind colleagues that the possibility of adoption from many countries is closed to Finland by the fact that we are going to have a gender-neutral marriage law, because there are many countries that do not then allow children to be adopted in countries where there is a gender-neutral marriage law. Here Mr Laukkanen raised these changes in religious freedom very well, and these statements next week relate to these very two issues, which, I might say, are very critical, namely this issue of adoption and then also this, which relates to the autonomy of churches and religious communities and the right to decide their own affairs. We have heard all the time how, for example, in the Lutheran Church this issue will certainly cause many problems, because at this point some of the priests have already announced that they will marry of the same sex, even though they do not have such a marital order. It is extremely important that the autonomy and freedom of churches and religious communities should be free to decide on their own doctrine of what they teach about marriage, cannot be interfered with or changed by the legislator. Mr President! There are countries where these issues have been taken into account. Here, in the debate on the referral of the citizens' initiative, I pointed out that in Norway, for example, there was a particular desire to safeguard and underscore the fact that religious communities and churches have the right to decide independently that if they do not have such liturgy for people of the same sex, then marriage cannot be carried out, and then, of course, to achieve that liturgy would require such a decision to be taken in the highest decision-making bodies of the church or religious community concerned. So there was a clear desire to protect religious freedom from the law and the autonomy of these churches and religious communities. Mr President! In this context, quite a few colleagues have also pointed out that what we should think about this citizens' initiative. It was a surprise to me when, at the beginning of the week, I read that as many as 500 of these citizens' initiatives have been put into transport. 14 of them have ended up here in Parliament, and, indeed, today, when the Internet is in use, 50,000 signatures are quite small. I say this quite simply because it does not matter to me about the content of the citizens' initiative, but when it was decided to follow this European citizens' initiative in Finland or, inspired by it, to introduce a citizens' initiative, then I was already quite skeptical about this whole issue, because I realized that this European citizens' initiative is going on a completely different basis: one million signatures from seven different countries, after which the Commission will assess whether this is something that can be legislated on or taken forward, whether it is compatible with the various treaties and also with the European Union's charters and the like. After all, in Finland we may have a citizens' initiative that is legally ill-prepared and may be a wish initiative, it may be a section initiative, it may be everything in between, and then it is as if Parliament is given the task of moving that citizens' initiative forward here in our system. And, as we remember, even here in Parliament, when these first citizens' initiatives arrived, there was a groping about how this citizens' initiative will be dealt with here in the House. I think it was this anti-fur farming initiative, and if, for example, this citizens' initiative had gone through at the time, it would have failed to examine the economic effects and effects of, for example, the freedom of the economy, which is guaranteed by the Constitution in Finland, and the next government would then have been obliged to pay compensation to those people who would probably have to give up their livelihoods, and certainly it would have been said in this initiative that, well, there has been bad legislation and how such an initiative can be trampled through Parliament without separate economic impact assessments. However, this citizens’ initiative on a gender-neutral marriage law was taken through in Parliament by ignoring the study of the impact of children’s children and then not returned to them in connection with these accompanying laws. Mr President! I hope that, when we vote on this matter tomorrow, our fellow Members will once again reflect on this issue and understand that this is really a major change in the Finnish base of values, and in that sense I hope that colleagues here will join in the fight that the Christian Democrats are going to take, that is to say, we want to support this protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u183	Mr President! Representative Hassi described some of the changes that have taken place in history about how different relationships have been valued. Society is changing, things are changing, and legislation is also changing. The view has been repeated here many times that the majority of Finns are still in favour of marriage between man and woman, only that marriage. I do not know what this view is based on. I find quite different research results, not this year or last year. The repeal of the legislative amendments now envisaged, just before they enter into force, just as the committee's report states. I believe that we should strive for continuity and predictability in all decision-making in this Chamber. I personally think that we should be very rational on this issue and have our feet on the ground. I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs could have already closed this initiative, especially since we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that there are considerable problems with this initiative in terms of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u186	Mr President! Much has been said in this Chamber about love, about the right of all to love. The old saying is that talk about what is lacking, and it is true that this society and every citizen need love more than anything else. We have a Christian cultural heritage, and its central guideline is: Love God above all things and your neighbor as yourself. "Love your closest love "is not a right, but a call. If this had been done and done, then it would also be understood to appreciate and respect us who want to protect and preserve a genuine marriage for future generations as well. Other types of couples have been listened to and respected and are marked by a law on relationships that will continue to promote their interests and rights. The human rights of children should be taken care of. Children’s primary right to mother and father, whether in their own family or in adoption, must be taken care of, but, when the gender-neutral marriage law is implemented, it violates these basic human rights of children. We have historical examples of what has happened to societies when the main services of society have collapsed. In many cases, they have been the beginning of the collapse of society as a whole. Evolution has gone down, so to speak, like a cow's tail. I hope that Members of Parliament will honestly reflect on what is actually being decided. We are about to decide on really big and far-reaching issues. I hope that the representatives will find the courage to turn the sled and vote as it would be best for all of us in this society for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u187	Mr President! I also support this objection as a basic motion. When I entered politics at the time — I want to get rid of the euro and the EU, of course, and I want the borders closed and to make immigration more sensible — one of the reasons was the atmosphere we have had here for a long time. Those who uphold Christian values have been made evildoers. The media is always stirring it up. I did not find any editorials, no column, where the journalist’s position was raised, where this truly equal marriage had been advocated. I talked to a journalist about how it is possible that I could not find a journalist of the opposite mind. He assured me that there were many, even though he did not think so. What does this say about our atmosphere that even a journalist is afraid to write? For example, how Mr Päivi Räsä was treated during the last period and the previous period was bullying. He was not accused of mistakes, but of religious convictions. This has got to stop. Christian values are just as valuable values as everyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u188	Mr President! The word 'equality' has been used a lot here in this debate, and I think Mrs Parviainen has also mentioned it in her speeches in her defence of her own position. In some ways it seems strange to look at European countries and at this situation, which is still the case in Finland, in what way this would be unequal, that we have two separate laws which are separate for different associations. To some extent, I wonder when we have even talked about the issue of human rights. Is it the case that in Germany there is a huge human rights violation going on, in 80 million nations, or in Austria, that in a huge way these countries are violating human rights when they are in a situation similar to that in Finland, that there are separate laws for people of the same sex and for people of different sex? In that sense, somehow using this word for equality has made me feel that it has suffered enormous inflation. 'Equal value'isthewordthathasextremely awakened a feeling ofjustice at all times,butonthisday itis used on such a light basis andin such anargument thatthereis no real equality between Mr President! I also agree with those who feel that Christian values in society are being pushed to the margins of society and seen in some way as secondary. In my opinion, if we really want to be fair in this society, to treat everyone in the same way, then Christian values, to defend them is just as valuable as defending any other world of values or ideologies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u189	Mr President! I also wanted to ask for the floor in order to support the proposal made earlier by Mr Niko that this debate should be based on an objection to the first and second draft legislation, and I really hope that, when we vote tomorrow and then next week, this will receive a great deal of support. That is the word that Mr Essayah raised, and we need to talk about it a little bit further. Now that we are talking about an equal marriage law, in reality, if this happens, it is an unequal marriage law. I believe, at least, that if a citizen is seeking a marriage, such as marriage, in order for it to be equal, every citizen should have the same opportunity to get married, and every citizen would also be given the same demands to get married, but if a gender-neutral marriage comes into force, citizens will be treated very unequally in the sense that those who are currently in a registered partnership are required only to report to the Local Register Office and, on the basis of the notification, to be dissolved into marriage. Then, if we are dealing with a sex change, at the same time as he is confirmed by a new sex, he does not have to do anything when he is automatically transferred to marriage, while a couple who are engaged, even though married couples and couples who have been married for decades, require all that is required at this stage for all to get married, alerts, opportunity, a Local Register Office or a church, a priest or a judge, a vow of marriage is required and witnesses are required
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u190	If the representative is going to continue, I will ask you to come here to the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u191	Mr President! Finally, on the point raised by Mr Huhtasaari, I too have felt very uncomfortable that when you declare that you are a Christian, you have some kind of convictions, you end up in some sort of dispensation and status, you downplay intelligence and downplay social vision, and you put yourself in the position of a secondary citizen. Then I have received a lot of messages from people who are in a different position in society, especially from the university world, about which they tell me that just don’t put messages here that would suggest that I’m somehow involved in these religious activities because if you do and someone notices that, then that’s the end of my career development at this university. I believe that these are messages that we should discuss them more than we are discussing now. Chairman! Again, a daughter wrote a note a few minutes ago that after going to the nursing home to her mother, who was in bad shape, and she had asked you to sing a hymn I knew, the nurse had come to deny singing that hymn and said that this was an unrecognized nursing home. It's come to this. At the end of the day, that is all I have to say: yes, this should now be discussed. True, we Christians must also have the right to be a Christian.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u192	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen and Mr Huhtasaari talk about the essence of the matter, namely freedom of speech and the right to be what is at the heart of man. I myself am concerned that Christian values have been made as a curse word, old - fashioned or in some other way unpleasant these days, and people have become separated from their communities and from one another as evildoers, just because of opinion. I myself get a lot of feedback that people are afraid to express their opinion even by raising their thumbs on Facebook for something because they then get feedback from it in some other community. This development is worrying that we do not see this kind of hate speech, which starts to persecute and separate people from different things and even from work because they want to stick to the traditional concept of marriage, for example. We decision-makers must courageously send out the message that racism of any kind is not accepted in this society or otherwise, and this must also be taken seriously when, for example, hate speech and racism are discussed in society. Finally, I would like to give a message to the churches and the church. You may have a time in the future when your faith will be measured, your freedom of speech will be measured, your right to believe what you are in the interpretation of the Bible, but stand firm, be courageous, for it gives great strength to people, to those who trust and believe in the values on which the nation of Finland is founded. All the good values, such as the Ten Commandments and other Christian values, rise to us from God’s Word, the Bible, and they should and should never be ashamed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u193	Mr President! On this point, briefly: Of course, we must respect — and I respect — everyone’s opinion, even if it is different from my own. But it is in this situation that I strongly attach to equality that justice, the feeling that it is right, and, more importantly, that there is a fair and equal standing before the law. I will try to separate the church side from this completely, that is, I will rationally look at the way in which this decision is taken in this Chamber. And I think that the committee's report does well to describe this situation. Indeed, we need to have a separate debate on the role of the citizens' initiative in our decision-making system. I'm sure it'll take a lot more thought.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u194	Mr President! Mr Parviainen, I absolutely respect your opinion on this matter, but in some way as regards the argument you used — at the same time you said that you wanted to be rational in this matter, and yet you justified justice by the feeling that something is right — I personally believe that there might be some kind of intellectual contradiction between these two arguments. It is really important that, when we consider this fairness, we understand that we actually have two parallel laws in Finland at the moment, which give the same rights in legislation, and in that sense it seems strange that arguments of this kind justify this. The name law is the only exception that currently exists, i.e. those of the same sex do not automatically get the same last name. Well, even those of different sex today do not often take the same last name, but whenever a common last name has been applied for, it has also been accepted on the basis of this petition. No case is known where a negative decision has been taken on this application. And then, of course, this issue of adoption, an adoption outside the family: it is a child's right to parents. Neither do you have the automatic right of persons of different sexes to adopt. It is always assessed on a case-by-case basis, wondering what is in the best interests of the child and looking at it from that point of view. In that sense, I believe that this kind of argument, perhaps a justification for fairness, is a limp in this situation, or it must still be asked whether we currently have enormous injustice in most of Central and South Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u195	Mr President! Mrs Parviainen, when she said that there is a feeling that it is right: I think that it would then be right for everyone in this society to have the space to live and also to be able to hold to and live up to their fundamental values, including their faith. It is true that in Finland we have a very strong Christian cultural heritage and Christian faith and the adherents of Christian faith and that the living have been instigators of this welfare society. I have said many times that whether you believe in these Christian things or not, if a citizen honestly looks at the history of Finland, no matter what part of society, you must honestly say that all, at least most of the sectors of society, have had supporters of Christian culture and Christian faith. Without the influence of Christianity, we would not have this welfare society. Our society today would be quite different. What is sad is that as much good as this social structure, as it has been built up, has brought to all — even to those who do not believe in these things or appreciate these things, Christianity, the Christian cultural heritage and the key values it brings with it — there is now a situation in which these fundamental values, these deep roots, are to be torn apart. They're bringing in the strangest, strangest philosophies. No, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u196	Mr President! Our Christian Western value base is based on Jewish Christianity. Either we don't want to remember it, or we're ashamed of it. We make decisions here, each according to our own ideology. Certainly Mr Parviainen thinks that gender-neutral ideology is rational. I think that decision-making based on Christian values is rational and is in the best interests of society and is in the best interests of the child, so it is good to remember, however, that we do not make this a human rights issue when it has already been overturned so many times. This is not a question of equality; this is not a question of human rights. This is a question of what kind of society is best for that child according to its own values. And once again: the entire foundation of Western values is based on Jewish Christianity, here comes the history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u197	Mr President! There is still a desire for consistency, stability and predictability when decisions are taken in this House. So this is how I feel about my marriage, church marriage, nothing out of it if someone else gets a chance to marry. If one considers the best interests of a child, the child is entitled to parents, but not always has the right to biological parents, nor can he always be in the care of biological parents. A child has the right to love, care and, of course, care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-16-ps-8.u198	Mr President! Yes, this change is enormous, and in that sense you could say to Mrs Parviainen that it is gone. It is out of this value base of Finnish society and of the history and tradition that we have in marriage. I would not even like to think about the kinds of conflicts that this is going to cause in society and the kind of disputes within the churches and churches, the different trials and certainly the hate - speech charges that will be seen as well. Somehow it seems sad that just this year, when Finland turns 100, we are putting ourselves in this sort of spiral of confrontation, and it does seem very sad. As in all European countries, the value base, the western base, rests — it is well said that its foundation rests — on three hills: there in Rome under Roman law, in Greece under the Greek philosophy of Areopagus, and then there on the hill of Calvary, where the message of grace and liberation has come to men. In that sense, it seems overwhelming that in some way in society we want to neglect this sight of our Finnish base of values and the way in which it has secured all these decades as an independent nation. At least I am saddened that we, as a nation, are again falling into such a confrontation and spiral.
