ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 November 2017 The debate, supported by Mrs Biaudet Johanna Ojala-Niemela, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 November 2017. In the debate Sami Savio Leena Mere has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 9/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 21 November 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u4	Mr President! I propose that the entry into force provision be adopted in accordance with our objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u5	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljunen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u6	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Eero Heinäluoma, has proposed that the entry into force provision be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u7	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 11/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 21 November 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u8	Mr President! I am submitting an objection to Paragraph 18.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u9	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u10	Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u11	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 21 November 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u12	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u13	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u14	Mr President! I will make a proposal in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u15	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u16	Mr President! I will make a proposal in line with Green Objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u17	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u18	Krista Kiuru, supported by Timo Haraka, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1. Mr Uotila, supported by Mr Li Andersson, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 3. In addition, with the support of Mr Antero Vartia, Mr Yanar has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u19	Krista Kiuru's proposal, Kari Uotila's proposal and Ozan Yanar's proposal are the same. First, we will vote against Mr Uotila's proposal against Mr Yanari's proposal, then against Mrs Kiuru's proposal, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u20	Mr President! I will table the amendments in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u21	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u22	Mr President! I am going to table an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u23	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u24	Krista Kiuru, supported by Timo Haraka, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1. In addition, Mr Uotila, supported by Mr Li Andersson, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u25	Krista Kiuru's proposal and Kari Uotila's proposal concern the same section. The vote will take place first on Krista Kiuru's proposal against Mr Uotila's proposal and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u26	Mr President! I will table an amendment following protest 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u27	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u28	With the support of Mr Sari Essayah, Peter Östman has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u29	Mr President! I will table an amendment following protest 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u30	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u31	With the support of Mr Sari Essayah, Peter Östman has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u32	Mr President! I have an objection to an amendment to paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u33	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u34	Ville With the support of Sami Savio, Vähämäki has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u35	Mr President! I have an objection to an amendment to paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u36	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u37	Ville With the support of Sami Savio, Vähämäki has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u38	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u39	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u40	Mr President! I propose that the article should take the form of what is in objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u41	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u42	Mr President! I will make a proposal in line with Green Objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u43	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u44	Krista Kiuru, supported by Timo Haraka, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1. Mr Uotila, supported by Mr Li Andersson, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 3. In addition, with the support of Mr Antero Vartia, Mr Yanar has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u45	Krista Kiuru's proposal, Kari Uotila's proposal and Ozan Yanar's proposal are the same. First, we will vote against Mr Kiuru's proposal, then against Mr Uotila's proposal, then against Mr Yanar's proposal, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u46	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u47	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u48	Mr President! I will make a proposal in line with Green Objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u49	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u50	Mr President! I have an objection to an amendment to paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u51	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u52	Krista Kiuru, supported by Timo Haraka, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1. With the support of Mr Antero Vartia, Mr Yanar has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2. In addition, Ville Vähämäki, supported by Sami Savio, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u53	Krista Kiuru's proposal, Ozan Yanar's proposal and Ville Vähämäki's proposal relate to the same article. Firstly, we will vote against Mrs Kiuru's proposal against Mr Yanar's proposal, then against Mr Vähämäki's proposal and, finally, against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u54	Mr President! I will table an amendment following protest 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u55	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u56	Mr President! I object to the amendment to paragraph 6 on the retention of child allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u57	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u58	With the support of Mr Sari Essayah, Peter Östman has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 5. Ville With the support of Sami Savio, Vähämäki has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u59	Mr Östman's proposal and Mr Vähämäki's proposal have the same meaning and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u60	Mr President! I propose that Article 127 be read as follows: takes the form of what is in objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u61	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u62	Mr President! I would like to propose an amendment to paragraph 6 of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u63	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u64	Mr Uotila, supported by Mr Li Andersson, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 3. Ville With the support of Sami Savio, Vähämäki has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u65	Kari Uotila's proposal and Ville Vähämäki's proposal concern the same section. Mr Uotila's proposal is put to the vote against Ville Vähämäki's proposal and, finally, against the successful report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u66	The seventh item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of current EU affairs. After the presentation by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. Then, at my discretion, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved using the V button. About two-and-a-half hours will be set aside for discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u67	Mr President! The last 18 months have shaken the European Union. After Brexit, even the legitimacy and existence of the Union were called into question. However, the worst speech has subsided. I dare say that right now the European Union is stronger than it was before the British referendum. The Brexit did not break up the European Union, but rather united. It forced us to look in the mirror and to think about what the Union has to offer the Member States and their citizens and businesses. The European Union is a community of values. The Union is built on strong values — peace, freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We are strongly committed to this. We have influenced and committed ourselves to the vision of the Rome Declaration signed in the spring that, over the next ten years, we want a Union that is safe and secure, prosperous, competitive, sustainable and socially responsible, with the will and ability to be a key player and shaper of globalisation in the world. We want a Union that offers its citizens new opportunities for cultural and social development and economic growth. We want a Union that is open to the countries of Europe that respect our values and undertake to promote them. We also recognise the unprecedented challenges facing the Union both at global and European level: regional conflicts, terrorism, increasing migratory pressures, protectionism and social and economic inequalities. For Finland, the starting point has been clear. Together, we are stronger and more powerful than separately. So I would rather be together and more than separately and less — our place is at the forefront of influence. The central road line we were driving became a common line not only for Finland but for Europe as a whole. We have paved the way for the EU to develop as a united, more efficient, key-focused community. We allow for a different pace of development when certain marginal conditions are met. Finland is currently involved in all forms of different paces of development. The decisions on spending on them will always be taken individually as a starting point for the common interest of both Finland and the Union. The development in which decisions would be taken by a small group of countries is not in the interests of the European Union or Finland. At the last European Council, we brought together a group of eight countries on a fast-track basis to defend a united Europe. This became the President of the European Council It is unlikely that the leadership will also become a commonly accepted policy. Mr President! I would like to define six issues which I believe are central and, in many ways, critical to the success of the European Union over the coming years. On these major issues, the EU must be able to work more closely together and have a stronger policy and clearly take on the role of global leader. Finland participates actively in this work. The first issue is EU security and defence cooperation. In the summer of 2016, I met the President of France, Hollande. Together we made a statement on the need to develop an EU defence policy. It's been a year and a half now. The EU has made amazing progress in this sector on the basis of what has been Finland's long-term goal and which we, together with France, have created. Finland's will and goal is to complete decision-making on defence-related regulations with an agreed, rather ambitious timetable. We would like to point out that this sector is not an end in itself, but must add concrete value to solidarity between Member States in terms of security and support the development of our national defence capabilities. With regard to permanent structural cooperation, we have announced that we will be among the first to join in. We have played a key role with seven other Member States in preparing this document. Our initiative also provided a clear record of the Lisbon Treaty assistance clause. The Union must be concerned about the security of Europe as a whole and be able to respond to the challenges of globalisation and our neighbourhood. The security situation in the Baltic Sea region remains tense. The situation in Ukraine will continue to be the same, as will the policy of sanctions against Russia. At the same time, we have considered bilateral dialogue with Russia important. The Syrian war continues, and the Middle East is marked by uncertainty. The direction of Turkey's policy continues to raise questions. The United States is committed to European security, but the message of the need for burden sharing has become clear. In international organisations, the EU must be able to speak with a stronger voice. These global changes emphasise that the EU can only be a credible player in the future if we can jointly prepare for the security of our citizens. Now the direction is right and the steps are determined. We have to keep them going. Secondly, we need a policy of stability-creating immigration. The Government outlined the Union's immigration policy objectives from the beginning of the week. Finland’s goal is to reach a situation where migration is increasingly managed through the resettlement of refugees and the quota refugee system and in closer cooperation with the UN and the UNHCR. We need to help people closer to crisis scenes. In addition, the living conditions of refugee camps must be improved so that a direct return from them is possible at all. The Government identified six themes to better manage migration and to shift the focus to the resettlement of quota refugees. Firstly, the root causes of migration are more effectively addressed, resettlement from refugee camps is increased, external border controls are strengthened, decisions and mechanisms on solidarity in exceptional situations are agreed in advance, returns are enhanced by creating a common EU list of safe countries as soon as possible. In addition, the Schengen system will be made more operational. This is the model the government is driving for other European colleagues. Thirdly, a functioning Economic and Monetary Union is building Europe's prosperity. A European basis for prosperity and stability will be created through a responsible economic and monetary union. Emu's not ready. She needs to be reformed. Finland has seen the problems and the Government has presented its own clear solutions. Since then, we have been working more closely with the Netherlands. There are three main problems in the current Economic and Monetary Union: Firstly, the economic differences between the Member States are large. The solution is based on the fact that the Member States themselves are responsible for structural changes and their own competitiveness. We reject the idea of reducing the economic disparities between the Member States by means of solutions that would increase solidarity in economic and monetary union. We do not regard the euro area budget, the finance minister or the common unemployment insurance policy as working solutions. On the other hand, we are in favour of strengthening the role of the President of the euro countries as well as of a specific item — or ‘the budget line’ — being the right term for the euro countries in the EU’s financial frameworks. Secondly, the link between states and banks must be broken. It is primarily through the completion of the Banking Union that the relationship between states and banks can be broken down. This will be done in accordance with the road map drawn up and investor responsibility will be implemented in the event of problems. The government is prepared to develop a common deposit guarantee provided that the risks of the Banking Union are reduced. The Board also wants to promote the permanent provision of the resolution fund and reduce the amount of unsettled credit. Mr President! The third problem is the lack of market discipline. Market discipline is the best guardian of sound economic policy. In order to be credible in terms of market discipline, the pricing of government loans must reflect the risks posed by the economic policy pursued. In order to ensure this, the sovereign debt regime must be possible in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Treaty. In crisis management, the European Stability Mechanism can also be developed into a European Monetary Fund. Fourthly, Europe needs an ambitious climate policy. Europe must take leadership in climate policy. Here we have no choice. This is the claim we made as Prime Ministers of the Nordic countries as soon as the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris climate agreement was confirmed. This issue has also been raised in the negotiations with French President Macron in September. He agreed. The European Union must also have ambitious targets for renewable energy. The Union must get rid of fossil fuels and the Union must be able to make sustainable use of renewable energy sources. At this point, the EU cannot drive on two tracks either. It is not possible to set tougher climate targets and, at the same time, to make the use of renewable raw materials more difficult. Finland must continue to be able to make full use of its forest resources within the limits of clearly defined sustainability. Fifthly, the EU must defend an open trade policy that defends free trade. Together with the Dutch, Danish and Swedish Prime Ministers, we announced a strong appeal for free trade in the summer. Europe will only succeed and succeed as an open community. We can't curl up inside. This also applies to trade policy. There is no room for protectionism in the European Union. Free trade negotiations must be concluded with honour and new trading partners must be sought. If, as it now seems, the United States wants to give up its role as a promoter of free trade, the EU must also play a leading role here. In addition, Finland requires more and better internal market and more measures to combat tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u71	Mr President! First of all, full thanks to the Prime Minister and the Government for the very clearly set objectives, priorities and principles of EU policy. We need a European Union that allows the Member States to look after their interests in global competition so that free trade is fair to us. We need a Union that enables Europe to develop high levels of knowledge and technology and to commercialise for everyone. To achieve this, Europe should genuinely be a coherent area of action in which people, capital, services and goods are free to move and bring about development and prosperity. We need a Union capable of really acting in the interests of nature and future generations on major issues such as climate change for mankind. And we need a Union whose other Member States are willing to help us if we suddenly get 100 000 refugees from the East who have passed through Russia towards the West in the future. We also need a Union whose internal value base and solidarity between the Member States are guaranteeing peace on this continent, where the two bloodiest wars in the world began. We need a Union whose members are united by respect for democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality. And we need a Union that fights unemployment, discrimination, social exclusion and poverty. And it is important that such a Union is capable of acting in a way that deserves the continued support of the citizens and the Member States. Mr President! In the aftermath of the British referendum, work on the future began. It focuses on growth, jobs and safety. The aim is less but better regulation of the EU. Common rules must be respected and agreed decisions must be implemented. The subsidiarity principle must be emphasised in particular. It must also be clearly stated that the Union is not becoming, nor is it developing, a federal state. I was Finland's negotiator in two major Treaty changes, and I can assure you that most Member States really do not want a federal state. Changes like that don't go through. This intimidation blinds us to the needs in which the Union really needs to focus on being great in big things and small in small things. My own experience, as well as an examination of the longer history of the EU, is in favour of the development of the Union being determined by the will of the Member States and their citizens. We have heard from Heads of State and other influential parties ideas for development, including new European institutions. They are not in themselves the answer to the EU's pain. The EU seeks the best justification for its action when it shows that it is working towards the great objectives it has promised to promote and which the Prime Minister has just announced. Strengthening security is a major issue in the EU. Europeans expect decisive action from the Union, both in the fight against terrorism and in strengthening defence policy. The launch of permanent structured cooperation is an historic achievement. It is transnational cooperation, but it is under the umbrella of the EU. The competences of the Union shall not be increased. This cooperation will improve our national capabilities and the ability of the Member States to cooperate. Mr President! Of course, there are different views within the Union on how things should be handled in the best possible way. EU policy therefore includes strict national lobbying. For example, it has been needed and will continue to be necessary in the field of forest use. Financial negotiations will also be challenging. Cohesion policy is a key financial instrument for promoting growth, employment and skills. In parallel with cohesion between Member States, cohesion funding must continue to be directed towards reducing inequalities within Member States and strengthening social cohesion. The Union must also be able to meet the challenge of agriculture and rural development in order to achieve Europe's objectives in terms of improving profitability, combating climate change and promoting the use of bioenergy. Mr President! Finland works for the development of the Union, practical
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u72	Mr President! The European Union is basically a community that fosters peace, stability, prosperity and growth — that is, the well-being of our Europeans. The Union will have a future as long as its citizens have confidence in it. Trust, on the other hand, depends on whether the EU is capable of responding to the needs of Europeans. It is quite clear that it requires reform, the will to listen to the concerns of the citizens and the courage to take decisions. Reforms must be made for the sake of the citizens, not for the sake of the institutions. Start with wealth and growth, because small Finland lives from exports. The EU's internal market and its free trade agreements have been of enormous benefit to Finnish companies, who in turn have been able to create new jobs. However, there are still many obstacles to the internal market, while protectionism is increasing in the world. The importance of the EU is also economic, and that is why we must make trade policy and a functioning internal market our top priority once again. It is important for the assembly that Finland can trade in game rules that are fair to everyone – including the environment and employees. We need more work, and it does not come about by restricting trade. Mr President! As far as peace and stability are concerned, the President of the Republic is very right to ask what a Union is that does not guarantee the security of its citizens. People are worried, and they need to be answered. We must start with the strengthening of Europe's external borders and the creation of a common immigration policy. The walls will not solve the problems, and that is why we need a common system to help those in need while at the same time combating trafficking in human beings and terrorism. Deeper EU defence and security cooperation is intended to respond to these concerns. We want to strengthen crisis management in neighbouring areas, the fight against hybrid and cyber threats, the fight against terrorism and illegal immigration — not least the competitiveness of the defence industry. Most of the EU countries belong to NATO, which is their military defence solution. So it's a division of jobs. The EU will complement, not replace, the security provided by NATO. All deepening security cooperation is in our interests, but at the same time it must be realistic: the EU does not, at least at this stage, create a common defence. It is therefore necessary for Finland to take care of the development of its own national defence capability and to make its decisions from there. It is the basis for EU cooperation, the NATO Partnership Programme, EU-NATO cooperation and Finland's bilateral relations, in particular with the United States and Sweden. Mr President! The Coalition Party Parliamentary Group thanks the Government for its active involvement in the development of EU defence cooperation. Similarly, the fact that the government was able to agree its own positions on the development of European monetary union among the first Member States. Whoever sets the agenda controls the debate and the finding of solutions. Market discipline and the responsibility of the Member States are important for the assembly. Each Member State must put the structures of its economy in order and put an end to over-indebtedness. We will not be able to cope with the new euro crisis. However, we do not see the basis for new institutions, such as the euro area's own Parliament or the budget, because they would not solve problems, let alone bring any added value to our citizens. A positive attitude towards the European Union does not mean uncritical submission. When a proposal does not please us, it must be possible to say it. However, the 'no' line is not enough, and we must have an alternative with its arguments. For example, Finland should not accept an extension of the EU's financial base after Brexit, but rather demand a more efficient use of the reduced budget. It must be possible to reduce inefficient activities. Mr President! According to the old saying, all roads lead to Rome. However, for the future, it is not insignificant what path we take. You see, there's no effect on the middle road. By walking in the vanguards, we can influence both the route selection and the goals. Our destiny is tied to Europe. Fortunately, we can make a difference — and we are making a difference — to its success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u73	‘We use our choice of choice by applying Mr President, this is what President Mauno Koivisto said at the inauguration of the Parliament in 1992, sealing the transition of our country to Western cooperation. The 75th anniversary of Finland was celebrated at that time. Now, a quarter of a century later, it is the 100th anniversary of our independence and Finland once again the time for choices. Some time ago, European cooperation appeared to be at a dead end. The years-long economic crisis, the refugee crisis and, ultimately, the Brexis gave rise to doubts as to whether European institutions would last. Limits were set and Article 50, which refers to the Community, was put on the agenda. The waiting for the end was premature. The difficult German government negotiations are now giving rise to uncertainty, which must be overcome. A stable Germany is essential for Europe. All in all, however, it now seems that European cooperation is intensifying, and Finland should be involved in it. In fact, it is quite simple: the challenges of our time are so important that they cannot be solved alone. Finland cannot cope on its own. Climate change and immigration are issues for which cross-border cooperation and trust are needed — not to mention trade policy, where the EU's common power in these times of protectionism is of gold to a country dependent on our foreign trade. We support permanent structural cooperation in defence, because security was crucial to our membership in the first place. Arctic policy and the Northern Dimension must also be firmly maintained on the Union's agenda. Mr President! Finland cannot stand by and watch European cooperation. It is in our interest to have a strong influence on development. Staying behind or in the outer circle will not happen, because decisions will affect us in any case. We were not blessed with any protection zone. We best use our choice by actively seeking the front row.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u76	Mr President! Finns have traditionally wanted security, economic well-being and increased internationalism from the EU. As EU members, we have the opportunity to influence the direction in which the Union is developing. The blue future is an EU-critical party that weighs EU cooperation with blue and white glasses on its head. [ Hustles from the left] Mr President! The Finnish line is clear. The Finnish Government has stated that the euro area does not need its own budget or a Minister of Finance. There is no reason to create such a federal structure. In his capacity as Chairman of the Left Youths, Mr Li Andersson supported the Socialist Federation. The blue future is not in favour of any sort of Euro-Union. The Blue Future is in favour of an EU that focuses on promoting trade and internationalism. We don't say no to everything. Finland has been exported to the EU and the euro. There we are and we are spending this money, as Secretary of State Timo Soini wrote in the future of the countryside. Finland aims to create a debt mechanism for the euro countries in which the debts of a country in default are restructured. In the future, the euro countries such as Greece must be able to go bankrupt in a controlled manner, as I personally put forward in 2010. Mr President! Finland's starting point is that the difference between the UK and the EU is fully taken into account in the overall level of the EU budget. Further compliance with the principle of subsidiarity could lead to savings. The EU must only act if the objective cannot be achieved more effectively at national level. For example, summer time in Finland should not be decided at EU level. As President Abraham Lincoln said, "your friend is one who has the same enemies as you." With Brexit, the EU leaves Finland with a strong ally, so we have to look for new ones. Finland needs to strengthen Nordic EU cooperation. All Nordic countries have a constructively critical attitude towards EU action. In time, Finns decided to become a member of the EU primarily because they wanted to safeguard Finland’s security policy status. Politically accepted permanent structured cooperation strengthens Finland’s international defence cooperation with partner countries and thus supports national defence. This is the best thing the EU has to offer us. Mr President! When Boris Yeltsin was asked to describe Russian democracy in one word, he replied 'good'. It was pointed out to Mr Yeltsin that he was not literally referring to one word, but could describe the state of democracy in a few words. That's when Jeltsin said, "Not good." The state of democracy in the EU is 'not good'. The Commission does not directly represent the citizens and is not politically responsible to the citizens, but it has the exclusive right to take legislative initiatives. This is a problem because the Commission is currently a political player seeking to increase its own influence — an example of this is the proposal to merge the presidencies of the Commission and the European Council, which would increase the Commission's power vis-à-vis the Council. The Commission has proposed transnational electoral lists for the European elections. However, this would not be in the interests of a small Member State such as Finland. The Commission could be developed in a more democratic way, with each Member State having elected national Commissioners who are also responsible to national parliaments. Mr President! Finland is part of the Western world and is a democratic member of the EU. Our common Union has changed a lot over the last two decades. The Blues believe that a new EU referendum is a well-founded way of asking Finns for their opinion on the future of Europe if the Treaties are amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u77	Mr President! The EU is a federal state. Only the Finns of Peru are opposed to this development. The other parties are poodles of the EU: the yes-man is a yes-man. Last Thursday, the European Parliament voted on the renegotiation of the Dublin procedure on asylum seekers. The bottom line is that the burden is divided by gross domestic product and size of the population in the EU Member States without any upper limit. Of the Finnish European parliamentarians, Halla-aho was the only one who voted against.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u86	Mr President! Finland joined the European Union 22 years ago. There are several generations in our country that have been allowed to grow into the European Community. A community in which peace and internationalism are everyday life. According to the recent Eurobarometer, the majority of Finns are satisfied with our membership of the European Union, even more satisfied than Europeans on average. Even more so, for the sake of all of us Finns, we have a duty to build a future European Union, a vision of what kind of continent we want to leave our children. The future of our continent also determines the future of our country. Finland’s economy is export-driven. It is therefore in our interest that Europe is a stable and predictable environment. So it is time for Finland to take its head out of the bush. The EU is at a turning point and Finland has the opportunity to be a real driving force for the Union. We need new solutions to challenges such as technological development, population ageing, change in working life and climate change, for the common good of Finns and all Europeans. Mr President! We will be the EU Presidency in the summer of 2019. Then we will be able to promote things that are important to us and we will be part of the EU's face to the rest of the world. Despite the importance of this task, Finland does not yet have any guidelines on what Europe we want to be building. The government has three different EU lines. I'm sure one good one would work better. Parliamentary elections will take place in the spring of 2019, immediately following the European elections. After those elections, we cannot drift as a driftwood through the presidency. It is a question of the future of the EU, and it cannot just be pushed into the preparation of the official machinery. We must have a vision of what we want for our presidency of the European Union. For this discussion, the Government should convene a working group covering all parties. It should do it as soon as possible. We also need a strong contribution from civil society in this group. The starting point for the Greens' vision of the EU is that genuine well-being is based on equality between people and the sustainability of the use of natural resources. We must not leave to future generations the polluted environment, the impoverished public economies or the problems of social inequality. Human dignity, the social well-being of citizens and the safeguarding of a sustainable environment must be at the heart of the EU. The values of the Union must be actively defended and policy must build on them. Mr President! The EU has been an excellent peace project. It has guaranteed peace for our continent after many years of war. We must be able to hold on to that peace. We must not curl up inwards at a time when the EU is facing exceptional challenges. Brexit and the rise of extreme right and populism are testing the unity of the Union. Displacement and inequality, the humanitarian crisis at the borders of the EU and, in particular, the development of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary are of serious concern. The best way to prepare for the future is through education. That is why cutting from it must also stop in Finland. The social dimension of the EU must be actively strengthened. We need minimum criteria for European-wide regulation of basic security and working life. Social security must be taken in the same direction. The Commission needs to start a comprehensive study of the EU-wide basic income. Taxes must be removed from the parasites to build up the welfare state, and large multinationals must publicly report where they pay their taxes. Climate change is the greatest threat to humanity and the well-being of our planet. We must do everything we can to combat it. Otherwise, our other actions will be in vain. Almost two years ago, the Paris climate agreement was signed. It seemed historic: at last, the European Union in the lead could protect our planet and combat climate change. Once the Union has sought to do so, Finland is opposed to a binding energy efficiency target and an effective carbon sink policy. All this despite the fact that we do not have a moment to lose. We must make bold decisions, for this planet is only on loan to us from generations of the future. Mr President! Finland has been a member of the EU for 23 years. We have benefited significantly from membership and will continue to benefit. However, it requires active action and a desire to take our country to the tables where things are decided. The Greens are European. We want to make Europe a common place. Finland cannot afford to lose its future presidency of the EU. That is why we now need action, direction for Europe, for the sake of Finns and all Europeans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u87	Mr President! Citizens do not feel that the European Union is their own; confidence in the Union has fallen in the Member States. Confidence in national decision-makers has also been weakened. And it's no wonder. At a time when many citizens are struggling with unemployment, cuts and growing inequalities, the EU is focusing on promoting the freedom of companies at the expense of people's well-being and livelihoods. All the Member States of the Union have been competing for cuts in their public spending over the last few years. At the same time, the tax haven economy has been allowed to flourish, even within the Union. The result of the Brexit referendum was not just the result of a campaign in which the truth was used very sparingly; it was a question of deeper discontent and protest towards a policy. This discontent has been reflected in the elections in many other countries, most recently in Germany. At a time when a large piece of the EU is falling apart with Brexit, Hungary and Poland are flagrantly violating the Union's fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy in the remaining countries. There is a great need right now for a debate on the future of the EU in Finland and Europe. The EU has no future unless it is able to meet the expectations of its citizens. There will be no future for the EU unless the Union succeeds in restoring people's belief that international cooperation will be able to address issues of well-being and safety in everyday life. Mr President! This is the moment when social justice, the well-being of citizens and democratic decision-making must be brought to the heart of the EU. The Left Alliance believes that the EU should focus on solving problems such as the tax haven economy, tax competition and wage dumping, which undermine the financial base of welfare services and increase inequality among citizens. As a result of crises and conflicts, there are more refugees in the world than ever since World War II. Climate change is the greatest threat to the future of all mankind and the planet. The EU must tackle these global challenges strongly. The EU must invest in education, employment and industry that exploits clean technologies and renewable energies. Questions about the social dimension of the EU are linked to the debate on the development of monetary union. The social dimension cannot be realised unless the fiscal rules established within the framework of monetary union are reformed and major changes are made to the structures of monetary union. Mr President! Unfortunately, however, the EU is not dealing so much with these issues of the well-being of citizens. Instead, the Union will be deepened towards military cooperation and the EU budget will support the war industry, the arms industry, above all the German and French. Is it true that the arms industry is now the area that must be primarily supported? Last week, Foreign Minister Timo Soini signed the suspenders with a commitment on behalf of Finland to participate in the permanent structured cooperation of the EU. Finland undertook to increase its defence expenditure at the same time as services and social security are being cut. Moreover, this military federalism has been prepared in secret: the documents have not been public until decisions have been taken and the matter has not been dealt with openly in Parliament. [Simon Elon interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u88	Mr President, ärade talman! The events of the last few days have made this debate even more important. We see the instability of Brexit, but also of the political situation in Germany, where the future of Angela Merkel is at stake. There's a political situation about to be filled: The role of the Nordic countries could be strengthened. At least there are two factors that make Finland appear to be a cautious braker rather than an active reformer. The first is a narrow, one-sided approach to the EU economy. The second is the composition of the government. The first is the problem for Finland. There is not a single opportunity left by the populists to emphasise how expensive this cooperation is for Finland, but also in more serious estimates, the value of EU cooperation is too often measured solely in money. It is clear that economic benefits are important, but where are our actions in favour of European values? It should be about leadership for a social and equal Europe. Europe is also a women's Europe. We should talk about education, immigration and the role of Europe in the world. We should act in favour of resolving conflicts and focus on climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u89	Mr President! The basic premise of the Christian Democrats is that every Member State in the EU must shoulder its own responsibility for the development of its society. Market-based division of labour and cooperation will give us more power and we will act fairly when the rules are the same for all. For a small export-driven Member State, the development envisaged by the EU has advantages and disadvantages: The open market, which operates under clear rules, is a good thing. Progress in the digital single market is absolutely excellent. We do not want the customs walls that the British are now afraid of, but, on the contrary, the removal of trade barriers to third countries also through EU free trade agreements, once they have been drawn up fairly. Good are the proposals for cooperation that will benefit everyone, such as police, border and intelligence cooperation and defence cooperation in security policy, such as planning and defence equipment procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u92	And now, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to the debate. We are doing the following: I would ask those representatives who wish to use a reply of up to 2 minutes, to stand up and press the V button. Before this stage of the debate, however, I will give the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance the answers, both of which will be paid. Three minutes in this context, and at a slightly later stage of the debate, a similar three-minute speech to the European Minister. - Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u93	Mr President! Thank you for your group speeches. In a very constructive spirit, there has been a debate. Firstly, this parliamentary procedure. This is the second time this year that we are going through EU issues in this great Chamber, and there is perhaps the most advanced processing system in Finland. These have been exported through a large committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. They've all been able to influence these things the way they're supposed to. There are things that we really cannot manage on our own: the fight against regional conflicts and terrorism, the management of migration. The issues of free trade, the internal market and climate change are good examples of those that we should and should do together. But there are things that need to be kept firmly in the hands of the Member States, such as taking care of our own public finances and taking care of our own competitiveness, for the same defence. We are not here to build a common army, but there too we are looking for areas of cooperation where cyber cooperation is a good example. This hybrid centre, which Finland took up very quickly, has also received a great deal of recognition in Europe. Then we're going to level the cycle. The SDP's speech called for a balanced economic situation in Emu. Yes, it necessarily means more solidarity. Yes, the most important thing about balancing the economic cycle is that the Member States' own budgets are in order and balanced. When we are in the upswing period, there is a surplus and can then be evened out, otherwise solidarity will be increased through this. You're not driving this thing, are you? As far as the social dimension is concerned, we agree that we are in favour of a fair labour market, but we do not want to make this a new income-sharing mechanism either. And then to make a difference. We have contributed to the future process of EU defence, as I said. We are very active in energy and climate policy. In the bioeconomy, we have drawn up a common road map with Sweden, which we are going to take forward. With regard to trade policy, we must now fill the gap left by Britain together. In Denmark and Holland, for example, we have found good partners. Our process has now been changed in such a way that we take positions and search for Finland's positions earlier so that we will then be able to influence the EU tables together. Examples of this are defence cooperation, EMU, immigration policies and so on, and this is certainly good practice. We will be able to discuss it in committee on time and then at the EU tables we will also be able to influence the fact that we find partners of the same mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u94	Mr President! I want to strongly defend Finland's membership of the European Union and as a member of the euro area. However, it is a good thing that the European Union is being developed. The European Union must be able to bring added value to Europeans, that is, to us Finns — added value to safety, added value to well-being. It was a good thing that Europe, with Brexit, woke up to the need to reform Europe in order to create its added value in order not to see similar unfortunate events. [KimmoWinter call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u95	The debatable continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u96	Mr President! The debate we just had, let us say, was an extremely monotony in its main line of action and described the fact that we have, however, been doing this work for 25 years. These six major priorities, which were clearly defined by the government, and the lines they contain, did not really receive any actual criticism from anyone other than the Left Alliance, and there was something to be read in the vernacular English translation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u101	Mr President! I also welcomed the fact that almost the whole opposition expressed very positive views on the development of the European Union. I appreciate the fact that you see the importance of the European Union for the Finnish, European and global arena. I don't want to comment on the Scareline of True Finns. The SDP's speech stressed that growth belongs to everyone. I fully agree with this, and Finland's line of EU policy supports this. When we are all familiar with the turbulence in the world at the moment, the EU has a very significant momentum to increase its role as a global player. Now that the USA is curling up inwards, the EU has the opportunity to take its place as the world's leading champion of free trade. Trade agreements are a way for the EU to manage globalisation in a sustainable way, and I would like to emphasise that free trade is perhaps the wrong word when we talk about multilateral rule-based trade. It's not worth it at all. Care will be taken to ensure that workers' rights are respected, environmental protection, consumer protection, food security, the rule of law. The European Union is very careful about this, especially at the moment. We are in the middle of some 20 free trade negotiations between countries and regions, I say, with the European Union. It reflects the interest of the world’s largest internal market. At the door of the European Union, if you can say so,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u102	Mr President! Indeed, on the basis of these speeches, it is incontrovertible that the European policy of our country needs leadership. At the same time, you, Prime Minister, both talked about unity and gave your support to the Union's various paces of development. And there is nothing yet, you praised the so-called middle road line, but when I listened to the group speech of the other government party, the Coalition Party, it withdrew from this middle road line. Yes, leadership is lost now, and I am predicting that you will find it difficult to put together a common line among all these views, especially as the Presidency approaches and we have a big national point of view on how we will carry out the Presidency at the end of 2019, when it is possible that we will have to deal with the final negotiations of the Brexit, the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the new Eastern Partnership Summit. Yes, there must be a common vision, a national European policy line, and that is where you have the responsibility, Prime Minister. Would it not really be appropriate to involve Parliament, to involve the parliamentary committees much more strongly in this formulation of the big picture of European policy? It is true that we have received individual things, but they do not become a big line, a big picture, the leadership that European politics now need in Finland. Even a small country can also show leadership in the Union, as Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven showed by bringing the Heads of State and Government to Gothenburg for the Social Dimension Summit. The EU must be able to show leadership in the world, but first we must do our homework here at home. This clarity is also needed by our countries' regions and research institutes, where there is uncertainty as to how the resources of the future Structural Funds period will be sufficient for research and regional development. How We Can Prepare for the Future
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u103	Mr President! I believe that the blue line is the whole of Finland as far as the future of the European Union is concerned. Finns are in favour of a Union that focuses on promoting trade and internationalism and facilitates normal life, but strongly opposes and criticises a Union that makes everyday life difficult for them, as shown by, for example, the debate on summer time. As far as defence is concerned, the situation in Europe and the situation in Finland as a part of it changed dramatically in 2014. This permanent structured cooperation, in which I fully agree, is strongly involved by Foreign Minister Soini and Minister of Defence Niinistö, we are proud. PRY helps Finland improve our defence capabilities. It is not a question of creating some form of collective defence cooperation, but, as Mr Vanhanen rightly pointed out, the inter-parliamentary and intergovernmental activities of the national parliaments will be strengthened, and this will help to make defence-related procurement better together. But one thing, Mr President, which has raised particular criticism among citizens in Europe quite rightly, is how we have responded to the migration situation, particularly in 2015. Yesterday, the government published its paper on the early impact on migration. There are excellent things in it to manage this situation: there is a need for more effective control of the external borders, for refugees to be brought closer to the countries of origin and for a policy on return for asylum seekers who will receive a negative decision. But, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how you feel about Emmanuel Macron's proposal, for example, that these asylum procedures should be conducted outside the EU. How do you view such a more distant vision of the direction in which the asylum system should be developed? So instead of crowds crossing the Mediterranean, risking their lives and paying off human smugglers,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u104	Mr President! The intimidation of the Finns on the ground is becoming a reality. The coalition earlier claimed from the Greek package that we were making money with this. I am still waiting for the great victories that will come out of it. The EU does not comply with its own rules, the no bail-out rule was immediately ready to be broken. There are problems in the euro area, not outside the euro area. It is difficult to find an expert who today would say that the euro is a success story or that the euro has been good for Finland’s competitiveness. As far as this permanent structured defence cooperation in the EU is concerned, there are a lot of companies in the arms industry in Finland and we are in favour of cooperation. The problem here is that the EU is taking away its decision-making powers. So cooperation is a good thing, but dictation is not. After this joint defence cooperation had been agreed, the German Home Secretary said that this was the first step towards an EU army. Unfortunately, it is the case that when plans and reports come into the EU, strong positions, then we will soon only be informed of the date. The EU only has this one direction, the EU actually has the objective, as Mr Macron said, of one code of law, one people, one leader and apparently only one opinion, because it is there to finance a campaign for the EU to campaign against those who might want to hold on to independent nation states. The EU Treaties no longer talk about a Europe of people, not a Europe of states. This will inevitably drive us to become a federal state, whether Finland wants it or not. But we know that other parties are always going along with every single thing, and absolutely also paying, which is very much the case. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u105	When it comes to the two-minute speeches, we stick to them very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u106	Mr President! I ask the Prime Minister: How do you react to the Greens' proposal in relation to the Finnish Presidency of the European Union, could we all gather together at a joint meeting, a joint working group to reflect on Finland's vision for the EU? Would this type of cooperation also be appropriate for the government? Second point: In order to solve the problems of the euro area, they must also be identified. Differences in competitiveness mean that at the same time we have both large surpluses and deficits and they strengthen each other. Differences in the cyclical situation result in major declines and growth periods at the same time. Mutual competition in taxation, among other things, leads to a race towards the bottom. The big problem with debt is that we have focused so much specifically on the amount of debt and not so much on the emphasis on economic reform. Mutual solidarity obviously requires mutual responsibility. I would like to put forward two ideas on how to move forward, the Minister for Finance. Could it be that without the Treaty opening up, it would be possible to launch such an ambitious green investment programme, through which can be reformed economies and at the same time combat climate change? The EFSI or the European Investment Bank can be used more and more to do this. The second such opening is then whether to build such an automatic cyclicalist, mutual unemployment insurance system that would work so that part of unemployment benefits would go to common insurance when unemployment and its costs in one of the euro countries are growing faster than in the rest of the euro area. This is because we all understand that a single, stable euro area is in the interests of all economies. The fact that there are large deficits and surpluses is growing and declining at the same time is not the case for any euro area Member State and not for the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u108	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, argued that permanent structural cooperation and support for the military industry were not federal development. However, the former EU critic, the current EU hexer, Foreign Minister Soini rejoiced and rejoiced at how, for example, this permanent structured cooperation was recorded in Finland's wish, although in the accompanying text, the Lisbon aid clause. In addition, Finland is realistically committed to increasing defence spending. If this is not federal development, then what is? If militarisation is not a federal development, how much will be desired? The Commission's proposal assumes that in the next two years EUR 500 million will be spent on this, and from then on EUR 1000 million on each year, EU budget money will be spent on this and over EUR 4000 million on state funds. But, Mr President, when I listened to these group speeches, it has to be said that Parliament's Pilli and Pulla are the blues and the True Finns. If you think of Mr Pill's speech, Mr Elon, then we tried to take a very critical line in the EU and oppose federal development at the same time as the chairman of his own party is sitting as a European minister in the ministerial box.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u113	Mr President! I hope that the time will not begin until I have the floor in real terms, five seconds has passed. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u114	Mr President! The Christian Democrats want to develop the EU as a body for cooperation between independent Member States. We do not want the EU to become a Union of transfers, nor do we want it to be a Union of joint and several liability. On the other hand, the EU line of the government has been fluctuating during this term of government. It seems that in the early years it was very difficult to get those policies over their head or they came in the very last minute, and at the moment it seems that in these EMU lines — yes, thanks to the government, in good time — there are some rather illogical lines of solidarity and also greater net contributory. First of all, the government's line on the Banking Union is that it should be completed at a time when risks have been significantly reduced. However, there is no mention of what will then be the significant reduction in these risks. It is known that the banking sector currently has between 700 billion and 800 billion of these unsettled credits in the EU. In Italy alone, unsettled loans from the banking sector amount to 17%. What is the amount where it is considered that we can now just as well go into the common deposit guarantee? Nor is there any assessment of derivatives risks. Another such illogicality is the fact that we are prepared to accept the euro area budget line within the EU budget. This will inevitably mean an increase in the net contribution of these euro countries. And do we think that we have a better view of how, for example, in a Member State even if youth unemployment should be taken care of? Should it really go?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage we will move on to one-minute responses.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u116	Thank you, Mr President, for this reduction. That is why I am now focusing solely on the procedure. As the Prime Minister said when we joined the Union, a very far-reaching parliamentary monitoring, control and guidance system for EU affairs was built in Finland. It is still good on paper, but it must be said that there has been a clear slip-up during this government. I am thinking of how large the committee is, how the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been able to know how difficult it has been for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to get working documents in a timely manner and to take a position on them. This applies both to the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome and to the preparation of the PRY. And this now, together with the desire not to bring a report or a communication to the whole Parliament which could be the subject of a broad debate in all the committees, but to be satisfied with such occasions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u117	Reply, Mr Vanhanen. You have a direct question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u118	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki again used this solidarity clause as a basis for federal development. I have been in the process of negotiating its wording in due course, and this solidarity clause obliges the Member States to provide mutual assistance, and it is binding on the Member States. I do not quite understand this federal development in this debate because it seems to be being used now as a synonym for increased cooperation. Perhaps it would be better to talk about more cooperation and discuss the subject of what are the issues in which it makes sense within the EU to increase cooperation, and where the nation states themselves can then act.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u119	Mr President! Every day I am pleased that we had the opportunity to take Finland into the European Union at the beginning of the 1990s. I am therefore surprised that people are constantly saying that there should be a referendum on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, let us stick to what is agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u123	Mr President! At 2:28 p.m. the Prime Minister's speech came to the e-mail of the MPs. It was to be discussed, that is to say, the Finnish Prime Minister's announcement on current European issues, and half an hour after this debate began, it became a policy. This describes the government's will to discuss these issues seriously. I would like to raise one point, the Arctic dimension. It did not really come up in your speech, Prime Minister, at all, but it is both a very important EU issue and an important one for Finland's economy and for the future, it is an important one for climate change. I would really like the Government to reflect on the Finnish Presidency of the European Union and also on this European policy in a way that defines the vision here in Parliament on the basis of the Government's proposal. Here the committees would hold a debate, then bring a common vision of how Finland will view the development of the European Union. I think it was a good thing that the Prime Minister's speech made that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u124	Mr President! It is very important to look at the EU through its successes, and in the long term to see the EU succeed in three areas: First, whether the EU is a peace and security project: Does it bring us peace, security? Is it able to influence the neighbouring areas, North Africa, the Middle East in terms of reducing and preventing conflicts? The second is the youth issue: Can the EU reduce youth unemployment? Can it create optimism in Europe? Can it support education, innovation, create opportunities for a new generation? And the third is the environment. By the way, I have voted in favour of EU membership precisely because I believed that it would be a good environmental union and that it could contribute better to the fight against climate change than we did here in Finland alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u127	President! Defence cooperation supports security development in Finland, but also in the EU as a whole. It is very important that this issue should be kept at a very strong pace. It also belongs to the Finnish Government that this has been done and is done. There are many aspects of this, and I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position on one of the points that may have been left aside. It is that in this defence cooperation it may not have been mentioned the importance of increasing cooperation between the European Union and NATO, which is a very dominant theme throughout Europe today, and to which Finland, under the auspices of the hybrid centre, has also made its own contribution, which Finland may have recently received the best ratings on how Finland is contributing to the development of the European Union. I think it would be good if this were to be mentioned here too, how important it is for overall safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u128	Mr President! Thank you to the Government and Prime Minister for influencing and influencing the European Union in advance. Those of us who sit in a large committee know very well how actively we have been influenced, among other things, by the construction of the Rome Declaration, how we have maintained the unity of the EU in a situation in which the EU was in a very difficult crisis. Now, as a second EU country, the government has adopted its own EMU position unanimously, a position which is very easy to agree with. Against this background, the government has very well kept to grips with these issues of the European Union. There is now a debate here about the fact that there has been no report here, which has been outlined in the Government Programme. But I'm sure there's been some information here. Each special committee has been able to examine EU issues in this area and to give an opinion to a large committee. Then the question is that in the European Union, Finland has been quite right to drive it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u129	Mr President! With regard to that European referendum, I must say that, first of all, I was never allowed to vote in it and, secondly, its result was quite strongly influenced in modern terms by 'vale news', which is to say that a slightly too positive image of the EU was dyed before the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u132	Mr President! It is important to talk about defence cooperation and foreign and security policy in the context of the EU. But security is not just a defence policy. I believe that the focus in the European Union should now be on how we can strengthen internal security within the EU. In this respect, the social dimension, in particular youth unemployment and the prospects for young people, are absolutely essential. Another point that I think needs to be raised in the context of the EU: our security threats, our global security threats, come across borders, and that is where the EU could do much more. Mr Salolainen rightly raised the issue that I have spoken about here — Africa. There, too, the future of young people in Africa depends on their access to education and work. That is why the development policy of the EU and the Member States must be aligned so that we can help people there to see the future. This is where the government saws.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u133	President! The government's EU line has turned into a line of critical realism. It is a good line, it is a blue line, but it must be acknowledged that from year to year, government to government will continue in Finnish politics and in different policy areas it will go behind the back of the EU. It is said that the EU demands and demands this, and in reality we are here more papal than the Pope and go our own way to the detriment of our nation in many ways. We have not benefited from the EU with Sweden in the same way as the Baltic countries, because when we joined, we were much higher than our infrastructure. If we look at roads and airports built in the Baltic countries, for example, they would not have been born without EU membership,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u134	Mr President! It is understandable that many citizens feel distrust of the EU because there are many undemocratic aspects of its decision-making and institutions, the euro decisions as an example. No one has been able to vote for the Commissioners and the Commission is not responsible to anyone. One thing that the EU could do to secure the confidence of citizens would, for example, be to show its strength by putting aggressive tax planning under control. One big issue is also free trade agreements. They must increase well - being, otherwise they are not desirable. They must respect human rights, respect the earth's carrying capacity, and must by no means undermine democratic decision-making. Investment protection is likely to undermine democratic decision-making and give companies power over democratic decision-making. There is absolutely no justification for investment protection between functioning legal states, and under no circumstances should Finland support such protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u135	Mr President, värderade talman! A strong EU is in the interests of Finland, and Finland must be one of the countries that sit on the tables where our affairs are decided. I find it quite incomprehensible that we are still talking in this Chamber about the fact that the EU is a bogeyman in this regard too. On the contrary, we are a small country, we must be where the decisions are made that affect us Finns every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u136	Mr President! I was very pleased that the Prime Minister said that the EU should be a stronger climate leader, and I would also like to see action taken by the Finnish Government in this direction. At the Bonn Conference on Climate Change last week, the new Dutch Government announced its intention of the EU tightening its 2030 emissions target by 15 percentage points from what has been adopted so far. The French and Swedish governments have also indicated that they want the EU to tighten its emissions targets. There have been no speeches from the Finnish Government in this direction. In this Chamber, for example, questions relating to this matter have mainly been circumvented from the point of view of the government. However, the UN Environment Programme UNEP’s emission gap report, which appeared in the run-up to Bonn’s climate conference, showed that the country’s current emission commitments lead to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u137	Mr President! One of the main strengths of the EU is that it recognises the different starting points of the regions and seeks to balance the different development differences between the regions. This is not even the will of all national governments. For example, Eastern and Northern Finland have actively expressed their views on Finland's EU policies, and the message is unambiguous: EU regional and structural policy will continue to have a genuine order and a really great need. I would like to ask the ministers and the government — or, first of all, I would like to thank them for their active efforts to equalise the disparities in the development of these regions — what further can be done to maximise the resources of the Cohesion Fund for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u138	I would like to give my answer to the honourable Members, Mrs Myller and Mr Kopra, and then Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u139	Mr President! It is very good to address this issue in what way the government will ensure its own objective of making money available for the cohesion funds of Northern and Eastern Finland, i.e. regional and structural policy, in a situation where the government has set the most important negotiating objective of reducing the EU budget in practice, and the objective of reducing cohesion funds has also been set. Is there any way of believing that Northern and Eastern Finland will be able to benefit more from the cohesion funds while, at the same time, being prepared to cut off the rest of Europe? We should understand that we are seeking common solutions in Europe and not going into that situation, as has been said here, that we are picking raisins from buns. That way we will not get anything through our own goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u140	Mr President! I would like to return to the EU's defence and its joint planning. In recent years, the security environment has changed substantially throughout the EU, but it must take account of the fact that what we face as a challenge here in Northern Europe, the security image and the image of defence, is different from what is more southern in Europe, where threats and top 3 threats are seen as different. Equally, the Commission has stated that no EU country in the current security situation is able to respond to all security threats on its own, i.e. no EU country alone is able to deal with all security threats on its own. Therefore, the fact that we EU countries are cooperating in defence is extremely important and could also be very useful when it is taken up with determination. This permanent structured cooperation is an excellent mechanism and possibly joint equipment procurement, ammunition procurement and so on. I would like to ask the Prime Minister or the minister responsible,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u141	At this point, I will give the 3 minute response to Minister Sampo Terho as agreed, and after his speech, this debate will continue for about half an hour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u142	Mr President! Some answers to the speeches made by the representatives within the limits of time. After all, the debate has been rather tactful, as, of course, often happens with regard to the EU. Representative Arhinmäki tried to blow a little life into it with a few critical remarks to which I would respond. You spoke about the fact that dissatisfaction with the EU is real and so far we have an understanding. This has indeed led to extraordinary and surprising inverses in national elections in different countries, and these causes of discontent must be taken into account. Of these, the key is certainly migration, on which the government has just formed a position, but also social justice, which you yourself raised. Yes, that is certainly the case, but with regard to social justice, these problems cannot be solved by transfers between Member States from taxpayers to others, because this idea is simply incompatible with the current form of the EU. Different countries have independent economic policies, as must be done, and their own tax rates and tax policies, as must be maintained. You also pointed out that Finland is committed to a common defence and its development. Yes, because the public wants it and it is the government's line and it is a good line. You pointed out that defence expenditure is rising. Yes, it's good. But you were wrong, as has already been pointed out here, that this is not a federal development, but that permanent structured cooperation is cooperation between the Member States. Mr Demari's speech was a little weak: leadership is missing or a large picture is missing. Yes, we have a big picture in the Government Programme and it has been specified by various other programmes. I do not see any basis for this criticism. Our policy is more active than ever, it is better than ever, and it is also very consistent. The Finns also raised the issue of migration. You were pleased and proud to have one MEP who has voted against the burden-sharing system for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u147	Mr President! It is good that the EU is being developed. The big question here is how and in which direction it will evolve. The Prime Minister strongly said that Finland is not prepared to increase solidarity. That was a good and clarifying sentence. But a few questions. How do France, Spain and Italy react to the issue of solidarity and the development of an economic union? Then on this joint defence cooperation: at least it is a little unclear to the people what that means in concrete terms. Then I'd like to ask the Left Alliance. You do not want to invest in your own defence, you say 'no' to NATO, and you say 'no' to the EU's common defence too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u148	Mr President! When I read this government proposal, above all about the development of Emu, I look forward to one particular thing. The government's analysis is incomplete in such a way that it does not assess how Finland, as a nation, is building its own survival strategy as an export-driven country that is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations. If we consider that there is no willingness or preconditions at EU level for countercyclical buffers or systems, is it not the case that then, at national level, we need to think about what we are doing here so that we can survive? It follows that we should not abandon the ability to coordinate economic, labour market, contractual and fiscal policies. Finland needs a common table in Finland. We need to invest in knowledge, research and product development and diversify the business structure. We have to work so that people can move from one job to another and so that they can
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u149	Mr President! The first point of the Prime Minister's six-point clear structure programme was security and defence policy. The European Union has been, and is, a security community, and quite a few of us voted in 94 'and' precisely because of this — the EU is a security community. It's not a military alliance, and it's not going that way, but it's a security community. A new addition to this is our entry into permanent structured cooperation, and Finland's handprint is reflected, among other things, in the fact that the reference to the Treaty of Lisbon's assistance clause is specifically attached to this paragraph. The EU has so far been active in crisis management operations. It has the capacity to manage civilian crises, but this new move now means that our preconditions for improving our own performance and also our conditions for cooperation will improve. All in all, this brings added value to the wide-ranging
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u150	Mr President! It is gratifying that we are talking about the social dimension, because the EU's legitimacy crisis is precisely the result of the lack of this social dimension. It is also gratifying that in this context we are discussing the development of monetary union, because it will not be possible to implement the social dimension without reform of monetary union. As far as the position of Finland is concerned at the moment, which is, in essence, opposed to increased solidarity, I consider it problematic because it does not really provide any real solutions to the problems that monetary union is currently facing. The single currency is already, in principle, a shared currency. At present, countries with very different economies, their economic structure, their pay levels are linked through the single currency and the single monetary policy, and no flexibility mechanisms have been proposed to correct these imbalances except economic discipline, that is to say cuts in the wages, social security and public services of ordinary citizens. This is the main problem,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u151	Mr President! The better the internal market works, the better Finland will be. Unfortunately, recent developments have been just the opposite. And then there are of course issues such as the digital single market where you should really make rapid progress. Unfortunately, there is currently a lack of decision-making capacity in the EU to make progress in the digital single market, for example. I understand the need for a little more funding in defence cooperation, but in the digital single market the pace should be much, much higher. I would now like to ask the Minister – the Prime Minister or the Minister for Finance – what we could do differently in order to catch up to this technological development and achieve much, much faster decision-making at the EU tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u152	Mr President! It has been interesting to follow this debate when a party other than the Finns themselves may have made strong criticisms and protests — to see that integration does not go too far. This has been the case, for example, in the speeches made by the KD. And then when the Finns say it, the terrible fuss starts: well, now they're talking like that again. Listen to me for real, we have something really deep to say about these things, and, as Mr Huhtasaari said, these are some who have come forward and come true. Perhaps the Minister for European Affairs has changed a little since the spring when he was ready to vote for EU members and also criticised the euro, [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u153	Madam President! One question about this permanent structured cooperation, a concrete question: if, at this first stage, the EUR 500 million comes from the EU's common budget, what is Finland prepared to cut off? And it is precisely the question that is important for the continuation, because it will be even more important in the future when the common budget is reduced and defence expenditure is increased. What, then, should you be able to operate on? The concern is therefore that defence expenditure will be increased as a proportion of the EU budget and that the benefits will go to the biggest companies in the major Member States. What will happen to Finland’s own defence industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u154	Mr President! I do not often appeal to the Confederation of Finnish Industries, but now I quote Taneli Lahte, President of the EU. Direct quote: "You have to be proactive in advance. Now we're not." The Confederation of Finnish Industries is thus harshly overturning the fine words of its own ministers. Finland's position The development of Emu has only been a list of everything that cannot be done without any initiative of its own. I challenge Prime Minister Sipilä: this is the right time, the right place to tell us one of Finland's own future initiatives. Nordea is welcome in Finland, but the risks increase. So could Finland at last put an end to the obstruction of the banking union and put an end to it? Those countries with a sound banking system would form mutual deposit guarantee and a crisis fund in order to convince ourselves of the next financial crisis. Do we agree that this disaster must not happen again? It suffers ordinary people who lost their jobs, their security, and eventually their hope. They have turned their backs on the European Union. We can't afford it. Finland must not be part of the problem but part of the solution, not part of a Europe of despair, but part of a Europe of hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u155	Mr President! The leading role of Finland is spoken of misleadingly here. In my opinion, Finland has been exceptionally active when looking at it from a large committee and from my own experience. Among EU leaders, Prime Minister Sipilä's practical process charts are known, the role of the Finnish Government is known. The result has been generated in defence cooperation, digitalisation, the development of EMU, the dismantling of bureaucracy. These are all facts. In this debate, what I found most strange in the debate of the major parties was this balancing of the social democrats' cycles, which in practice means more solidarity in the EU economy. It would be good to hear the government further analyse this policy of the SDP. How do you judge what this would lead to?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u156	Mr President! There is now a need for trust between EU Member States in order to safeguard the unity and value leadership of the EU in the world. The world now needs a viable European Union. Even a small country can be active in the European Union, it has recently been seen here, but Finland is now denying its opportunities. We are not using our capacity to the full. Instead, we are picking raisins from buns: not for the Minister of Finance, not for the euro budget, not for the cyclical adjustment mechanism. This isn't how it works! If we want to achieve things that are important to us, we must be open to presentations by other Member States. And you know what: there is a great deal of discussion in the European Union about the cyclical adjustment of the euro area at the moment, and these proposals must be transparent. The Social Democrats do not want to turn the European Union into a Union of transfers, but we want a sensible insurance-based cyclical adjustment mechanism that allows us to stay within the limits of the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u157	Mr President! Brexit may have been a surprise to some of us, and it seems to me that it was also a surprise to the British Government. Particularly during these negotiations, it has been revealed that the British believed that the EU27 would fall apart and that Germany would help them. Neither of them has happened. The EU27 has remained fully consistent, and I think it is worth hating. Another aspect of this unity is respect for the rule of law. Mr Henriksson has already referred here to yesterday's debate on Europe's values, in which President Ahtisaari said, among other things, 'We must reprove those who do not respect the values'. I would like to ask the government how we will deal with Poland and Hungary in the future, where human rights violations are quite flagrant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u159	Mr President! You could put Spain and Catalonia on the same list, how they do it. But this single currency of the euro: That has not in all respects been a blessing to Finland, although it has been a relief for those who can afford to travel, for example. The problem with the euro, as has been said and known here, is that there are extremely different countries in economic terms. However, since there are imaginable benefits from this single currency, I would ask the corresponding ministers for a view: What do you think of the possible two single currencies? In other words, if there were such a northern euro and then the southern euro — the border around the old lines of Trajanus or Hadrianus. And it would not bother me at all if the name of this common currency of the north were to be mark. But to be so serious about what I've been working on and researching,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u160	Mr President! Just as Prime Minister Sipilä said in his own speech, Finland anticipates its own decisions through a large committee in good time. I have wondered, for example, when Mrs Harakka said that this would not be the case. At least you should listen to that speech, and if you have not listened, read that record again. But it is also important to remember that Finland has not changed the line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u163	Madam President! I believe that the term ‘Federal State’is being used too sparsely,namely for each speaker a different issue. I'm just trying to raise the issue of how the Blues and the Basic Finns, Pill and Pulla, over and over again, criticise federal development without actually knowing what its content is. But if we go now to this militarisation of the EU, it said that it is not a federal development because it is cooperation between the Member States, but otherwise it is the euro and EMU. So they're not federal development either? Madam President! We believe that Finland needs its own independent, credible defence, and we would rather fund it directly than fund the EU arms industry, and we would rather fund a little more of the position of workers, pensioners, the unemployed than the fact that we are transferring transfers to European arms waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u164	Mr President! I guess I'll just have to answer to Mr. Monn, Mr. Arhinmäki. You're doing what Monni does, trying to get Pill and Pulla against each other, but I'm going to answer you now. In other words, if you look at your line, you had Suvi-Anne Siimes, the Minister for Finance, during which Finland joined the euro. Was it federal development? And your current President, Li Andersson, was in favour of the Socialist Federation as chairman of the Left Youths. So you're in favour of some kind of federal government? And when there's been some confusion about the blue line, let's say it one more time. A new EU referendum will then be needed and it is justified, in our view, if the Treaties are to be amended. But just as the government's good policy is, we do not see the need to amend the Treaties now. This permanent structured cooperation, which we warmly support, is cooperation between the Member States. It is not a federal mechanism and it does not affect Finland’s national sovereignty. Mr Arhinmäki, are you opposed to the fact that we are able, for example, to do air-tanning more effectively?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u165	Mr President! There has been a lot of debate here today about the federal development of the EU, and I would like to remind you that the EU already has many federal features. It has its own Parliament, the civil service government, the Commission, the Constitution, the Treaty of Lisbon, the Court of Justice, the Central Bank and its own money. The highest executive power in the EU is exercised by the European Commission, which has the exclusive right to make legislative initiatives into EU law. It and the Council of the European Union have the right to adopt directives without the approval of the European Parliament. [Left: No!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u168	Mr President! Unfortunately, the problems of the euro have only increased in recent years, even though the market has been peaceful. In fact, that is why the problems have increased — behind the back of the central banks. If you say that the euro is a more stable currency than it has been for years, you must tell us what price has been paid for it: the balance sheet total of the European Central Bank has increased tenfold. The national central banks own more than one fifth of their country’s bonds. Under Target 2 the amount of Finland's claims is one third of our country's GDP. The prices of assets have risen, banks' balance sheets have been filled with the debt of the host countries, countries have continued to indebtedness. The situation is not healthy. In the event of a crisis, solidarity would be greater than any unemployment insurance fund or crisis management fund could. The euro area would operate on a much healthier basis if this solidarity were restored to the democratic process. The federal concept has been misunderstood. We are already in solidarity. A functioning federal state means devolution, not centralisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u169	Fru Talman! Inom en snar framtid ska Europaparlamentet ge ett förslag till Europeiska rådet om hur plasserna i parliamentet ska fördelas effecter brexit. Europaparlamentet förbereder nu frågan, och där finns ett konkret förslag som förordar att Finland ska tilldelad ytterligare en plats. Landskapet Åland har sedan Finlands EU-medlemskap konstaterat Ålands behov av en egen Europaparlamentsplats för att kornsera maken Ålands lagting gett till Brussels. Då självstyrda Grönland var en del av EU 1973-1982 Hade Grönland en av Danmarks plasser öronmärkt. Åland har redan år 2006 presenterat ett förslag till riksdage om att göra Åland till en egen valkrets i EU-Parliamentsval. Regeringen Vanhanen fattade år 2009 ett principbeslut i frågan. I beslutt stadgades att regeringen medverkar till att utveckla landsskapets inflattande på arbetet i Europaparlamentet och fortsätter att i kommande förhandlingar på gemenskapsnivå om fördelningen av Parliamentsplatser destroy Ålands internationalella särställning och självstyrande status. Jag vill fråga statsminister Sipilä: Hur medverkar nuvarande regering till att utveckla landskapet Ålands direkt EU-inflytande och hur ser regeringen på att en av Storbritanniens nuvarande platter kunde tillala Finland och tilldelas Åland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u170	Mr President! Instead of being intimidated by solidarity, we should sometimes talk more about increasing solidarity. The fact that some Member States are collecting huge current account surpluses and deficits is costing other countries unemployment. The fact that some countries are practically tax havens and cause problems for the whole currency area. Or that some Member States refuse to take joint responsibility, for example for asylum seekers. We should talk more about increasing solidarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u173	Madam Speaker! This debate shows that there is a great need for a debate on European policy in Parliament, and it is good that this debate has been able to take place today. It is self-evident that we want to be involved in the European, Western community of values and in every way possible in the discussions that take place there. We want to take our own contribution there, but of course we also want to benefit from Europe in every way. And at the moment, Finland's biggest problem is employment. That is our question of fate in order to organise and fund services. And I would like to ask the government how European cooperation is to be used to improve employment in Finland. I know that the European Commission has a programme on labour mobility that can be exploited, and we currently have more than 30,000 job vacancies, especially in industry, where there are no factors among the huge numbers of unemployed. Is this going to move?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u174	Mr President! It is great that we have also found Pills and Pills and Monnit in this topical debate on the EU, and now the question is where is that Pekka Töhöhän jälö? But maybe it's a good idea for these fairy tale characters to get to the point. One of the key challenges in this development of the EU is the mistrust that exists between Member States and also between political movements. And this is particularly evident in the areas where the Union would have the most to offer, whether it has to do with the development of the internal market, with the development of monetary union or, for example, with the way in which we deal with global challenges — such as issues such as immigration or climate change. This rebuilding of trust should often be strengthened, and it is worth starting with this very national Parliament. Therefore, it would have been justified for these issues to have been dealt with in greater depth here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u175	Madam President! Just as the Prime Minister said earlier, the European Union must be a global leader in climate policy. This, of course, requires a significant increase in renewable energy production within the Union. This not only contributes to reducing emissions and limiting global warming but also contributes to the Union's energy self-sufficiency. All renewable energy produced within the European Union reduces the EU's dependence on imported energy and, above all, on fossil imported energy. Despite some progress recently made in the construction of the Energy Union, the European Union's dependence on imported energy still stands at more than 50%. This is also a clear risk for security policy, given that natural resources are often concentrated in conflict sensitive areas. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether Finland, during its Presidency of the European Union, could contribute even more to the EU's energy self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u176	Mr President! It is not good for a small country to be alone, especially in global markets. It is not the small nation states that are competing on the world market, but the major economic areas: the United States, China, the European Economic Area, of which the EU is the leading part. Finnish companies also need a functioning, large domestic market, a European domestic market to scale the world. It is no coincidence that the largest companies in the world are modern American platform companies, but there are no such companies in Europe, let alone in Finland. Our large companies represent the industrial past, not the future of the platform economy, and this is because the European Digital Single Market still does not work, because the Member States are focusing on pecking each other rather than seeking common interest. The EU is not a zero-sum game, it is a plus-sum game. The EU and the euro have been reproached here for all the evil and forgotten that the EU is us, including us Finns. Unfortunately, we are not alone in our culture of reproaching others. In many other countries too, the EU is being flouted, including us Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u177	Madam President! In Europe, we have a pillar of social rights with 20 different principles that we hope will be followed by countries. I believe that Finland has done well and that humanity and community are important here. At the moment, we have a social welfare law before Parliament, which, among other things, opens up health services for undocumented people and for those who do not have the right to remain here in our country, so I would like to ask you when there was a meeting of EU leaders in Gothenburg on this very issue of social rights: in what way is this burden being shared? Do other countries in the EU also have these practices that, in a way, health services, social care and everything there also belong to paperless people in the same way as in Finland? Finland really does this work with heart, and this Social Welfare Act is one example of it. Of course, it brings costs and raises questions about the way in which the EU operates.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, there are still 11 requests for reply here on the machine. I agree with them all, and then the Ministers' speeches will be taken at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u179	Mr President! With regard to the future financial framework, the EU's common agricultural policy is a key issue for Finland. The surgical effects of Brexit are well known. Sustainable and competitive agriculture in Europe will continue to be the starting point of the common agricultural policy. The Common Agricultural Policy for Europe is an integral part of Finland's EU policy. In his statements, the Minister of Finance, Orpo, has stated that a maximum solution is sought for Finnish agriculture in the negotiations. Prime Minister Sipilä, you did not mention agriculture or the reform of agricultural policy in your announcement. The examples of previous Prime Ministers Lipponen, Vanhanen, Katainen and Stubb show that the Prime Minister must be on the road in the EU itself. In what way do you, Prime Minister Sipilä, now put yourself at risk in order to secure the financing of Finnish agriculture and rural areas in the future financial framework and in the new programming period?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u180	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Orpo, said earlier that Finland must strive for all the EU cores in our interests, whatever they may be. Minister Orpo has said, among other things, that the EU needs a common asylum policy. Mr Salolainen was also concerned about migration in his previous speech, and that is why. In last week's vote, the European Parliament gave the mandate to open negotiations with the Member States on the reform of the Dublin procedure. This position of Parliament includes the principle of compulsory burden sharing. In the new proposal, there would be no limit to this burden-sharing. The solution is a burden-sharing mechanism based on equal weightings of GDP and population size in the Member States. Mr President! I would like to ask the government whether the government programme's record on the voluntary nature of internal transfers is still valid and whether it will also be respected when negotiating on the EU tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u181	Mr President! Here Mr Koski intervened in the common agricultural policy, which is being reformed. I know very well that the government and the Government Minister for Agriculture and Forestry are very active in this. There is no point in trying to build a division of this kind within the government in this Chamber. I really hope that this good debate will continue and that there will be that common understanding, especially among the parties in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u182	Madam President! This is where Mr Räsänen longed for Pekka Töhöhän — Christian Democrats may even sign up because we usually have good intentions and are kind. [Laughter] I would have liked to continue to ask the government about this imbalance in the Target system, which was raised here by Mr Lepomäki, and then to refer to my previous question, namely unsettled credit within the banking sector. In my opinion, these constitute a whole, now that we have the government's position that we can move towards a common deposit guarantee scheme when we consider that the amount of unsettled credit is low enough. What, then, is the percentage limit that we consider to be small enough? However, there are between 600 billion and 700 billion unsorted loans in European banks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u183	Madam President! Yes, security of supply and safety are the two key elements that we can enjoy within the EU. Agricultural policy is one of the key elements of security of supply. As this financial framework is being prepared in the EU, I am also encouraging to be active in it. Minister Leppä has done a good job on the EU tables, but this is the way we can get our net contribution back as much as possible. In fact, agriculture is the biggest recovery we can get back from the EU budget to Finland. Let us remember the less favourable production conditions we have, our own production must be maintained. Madam Speaker! In short, only this PRY, permanent structured defence cooperation: That is good, it will improve our national security of supply in this respect too. It will improve our performance. And this is inter-state cooperation, and this is not driving us into an EU federation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u184	Mr President! When some of the representatives here were concerned that Finland would in some way pick raisins from buns in the EU, I would just like to see us get there sometime. Now it doesn't look like it. Minister Terho used the typical argument of the Finnish debate that when nothing else is invented, then Russia will be intimidated. To this I answer that we must be independent not only in the east but also in the west. Although the EU has some things in common with Russia. In addition to restrictions on freedom of expression, the fundamental principle of the EU seems to be that elections, votes and democracy in general are problems. Every time an EU country is voted in some elections, it is a place of crisis at European level. It is quite moving to watch the panic in which, for example, the German government talks are reported by the Finnish media, or how frightened of it are the politicians behind the federal government in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u185	Mr President! As the Prime Minister said, the Union also needs a social Europe. Indeed, last week EU leaders committed themselves to implementing the pillar of social rights, and economic and social rights must be developed in parallel. Improving social rights brings benefits to the everyday lives of EU citizens and thus increases citizens' confidence in the Union. The European trade union movement wants the key objectives of the social pillar to be part of the EU economic governance cycle. I therefore ask how the Finnish Government views this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u186	Madam President! The level of ambition at which the central government has handled EU affairs has been debated and questioned here. If you look at the list of how actively Finland has promoted cooperation on security and defence policy, how the Prime Minister personally drew up a diagram of how European immigration policy should be managed, if you think that we have been the first to complete our EMU agenda in the euro countries – we assume that what has been agreed must first be completed – if you think about our energy and climate issues, Finland will be in a very ambitious company there, if you think about how we have defended the free economy, free trade in Turbulent times, to defend the need to get rid of regulation both nationally and internationally, then this line has been quite clear. As far as the social dimension is concerned, the Nordic model of welfare society can also be recommended to European colleagues. Well, well-being goes from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u187	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about the EU's community of values. What are the European values? At least in the case of Catalonia, they were not brought up in any way when grandmas were beaten with a baton. As far as Mr Arhinmäki's comment is concerned, 'where is the EU, where is the problem' is no longer included in the ministerial box, it is very sad, as is Minister Terho no longer calling for a referendum on the EU. Some people change their values, some people stay on the basis of values. But now that we are in the committee adopting a different opinion on this development of EMU and on the banking union, if the Left-wing Alliance wishes to oppose federal development, I would be happy to give it to you for signature. As far as this euro is concerned, the Banking Union and the common deposit guarantee cannot work because banks are at a completely different level of risk and it would take about 80 years to bring Greece's risks to the same level as other countries. Could we now abandon this unrealistic project and go into an independent monetary policy? It would be in the interests of Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u188	Even before the ministers, representatives of Arhinmäki and Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u189	Madam President! The fact that we are opposed to federal development still means nothing at all. It should then be possible to clearly state what federal development is. For example, the Left Alliance believes that minimum levels of corporate taxation in the European Union are needed, for example, so that countries do not compete against each other but that countries can maintain a higher level of taxation. We believe that social security, wages, working conditions should have a minimum level, as well as environmental standards. Someone thinks this may be federal development, and if this is federal development, we are in favour of it. But if, for example, it is a question of becoming a common finance minister for the EU, from Brussels, of managing economic policy, fiscal policy, then we certainly do not accept this. I think that there is absolutely no talk of who are more against the federal state or more on the federal side if you do not specify
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u190	Mr President! Two things. There has been talk of EU values, the rule of law. It would have been very important to hear the Government's views on the situation in Poland and Hungary on how to promote the EU as a community of values and the rule of law. Second point: I don't want to turn the knife around in a D.E.A. wound. We received exceptionally few votes in the round, which enabled all countries to vote for three candidates. We explained it to ourselves in such a way that Helsinki and Finland are poorly known. In fact, I have a chilling sweat that if we are well known on this issue because of the recent conflicts in our EU policy, we may not have been the quarterback in the European Union that we could be. I think it is very important that in the debate on the future of the EU, we can network, we can alliance, we can create alliances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u193	Now to the ministerial box: Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u194	Madam President! Thank you for the debate. We are very united in the big picture of the EU line. We want to be part of the European Union and be active in its development. This debate has been much missed, but I regret to say that quite few of these lines here have been reduced. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] A few comments on the conversation. Perhaps the biggest surprise in this debate was the SDP’s policy change in the construction of the cyclical adjustment system. It is quite different from what was discussed last year, when the financial crisis was at its deepest. Two things you criticise: in this EMU line, which was the second, I strongly believe that the position of the government is correct. Then there's this different pace. Yes, the starting point of the Rome Declaration is that we are seeking unity, but we are allowing different paces, as we have allowed in EMU, Schengen, for example. Now this permanent structured cooperation is the result of an example which not everyone is going to be involved in. But it must not hinder development as long as it is kept open. I think this is a very good line and it has now been unanimously adopted by the 27 countries of the European Union as a common line. Then climate policy. Congressman Haavisto, I couldn't agree more. Especially now that the United States is actually the only country out of the Paris Agreement, climate leadership must be brought into the hands of the European Union. Yes, we have set ourselves challenging targets, such as carbon neutrality by 2045 — the same objective as Sweden. Now for this activity. For example, the hybrid center is a good example of that. In a year and a half, we made it happen. When we received a tip that if a country were to catch a catch, Finland took the catch from it and we are already on the move. On this community of values, the rule of law: Yes, what is happening in Hungary and Poland at the moment is a development that we cannot accept. This is what we discussed yesterday at a value seminar in the Little Parliament. Now to the budget questions. First of all, of course, we optimize our own recovery. For example, we have already adopted guidelines on agriculture. They are the policies of the entire government, and we will make sure that we get the best possible recovery. We have come from the fact that we are not filling the hole in Britain. In fact, cohesion policy has worked. If we were to distribute cohesion money under the current rules in the next round of funding, 12 billion less would be needed, as income disparities within the EU have decreased. With regard to EMU, we started to identify the three main problems, the solutions to them. I filmed them in my own show at first. Representative Wallinheimo, the digital internal market, for example, the step signals of artificial intelligence: we got the Commission to catch up on the fact that the steps are being taken by the Commission, and we will also be able to influence that development when we have our own position and strategy on this issue. Mr Arhinmäki, we are also in favour of our own strong defence, but there are some things worth doing together here too. When I have spoken to my colleagues, preparing for cyber threats is a good example of where it is worth making preparations together, and it will benefit everyone. Then the Finnish Presidency has been discussed here in 2019. It will come after the elections, and it is clear that we will organise a round table for the Presidency and its themes across the opposition-government borders. Of course, it is not fair for it to be done by the government when we have elections in between.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u195	Minister Orphan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u196	Madam President! Thank you very much for this debate. It is a pity that so few people today have the opportunity to be here when the debate is so much needed. But perhaps to these financial questions: After all, the fundamental division has been that those who emphasise solidarity are prepared to give more decision-making power to Brussels, and those who emphasise the responsibility of the Member States for the economy and do not want solidarity want to hold more decision-making power in national hands. This has been a very clear line for Finland that we have been in this position. That is why increasing solidarity, which I am surprised to see in some form, but which is clearly supported by the SDP and the Greens, is a major change in this direction. In any case, if we are now going to build a cyclical adjustment system, then we are going to create a system of sending money from one Member State to another. [Department :Noole! ] But then, if you still think about it, it would be very difficult to create a cyclical stability money that could be targeted in such a way that it works — because we know that, in Finland, for example, it is very difficult to influence the economic cycle within the country alone, and if this kind of money existed, then you could say that probably at least at first relatively small money would become a huge dispute, a huge dispute about the distribution of its money, and I do not think it is worth the effort. What is much better is that we stick to our good basic position that each Member State is responsible for its own economy and thus strengthens the EU's common economy and economic stability within the euro area. If we have a stable and competitive economy, a functioning internal market and significantly lower levels of risk, both in terms of sovereign debt and in the banking system, then we will have a much, much better situation than at present. And this risk reduction is particularly necessary, and that is why the government is drawing up its own concrete road map on how to proceed with the finalisation of the Banking Union, so that one day we can take those steps in the direction of common deposit protection. These unorganised loans from banks, to which more than one representative drew attention, are indeed a major problem. Some countries... Greece has the most difficult 30 % of its credit portfolio. In Finland, this figure is one per cent, and it is quite clear that one day, when it comes to deposit protection, there must be a fair starting point. In other words, these differences within countries cannot be this great, and that is the line we are driving. Finland is now very proactive in that it is not enough to reduce risks; instead, we are calling for concrete indicators — and we are laying the foundations for it and we are going to take it to the EU tables — to see together how we can see that the risks have fallen sufficiently to take the next important step. After all, the Commission is now simply saying that the risks have been reduced and the Commission believes that it is possible to proceed with the deposit guarantee scheme, but we are not signing this. Well, as far as this ECB balance sheet is concerned: It was very good news some time ago when the ECB announced that they would start to reduce their purchasing programme in a controlled manner, that is to say, this stimulus, the provision of money in the euro area will be reduced. It is absolutely necessary that this should be done, but it must be done in a controlled and controlled manner, so that it does not cause problems for our economic growth, which is well under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u197	Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u198	Madam President! I will only comment on these issues of the social dimension and, above all, of employment, which have been raised in this debate. Mr Jokinen in particular drew attention to this in his own speech and in a way asked what could be done on this side of the EU. There has been a great deal of discussion there, among other things, about labour mobility, promoting it. Of course, the problem arises from the fact that the differences between countries are large and, of course, presents all kinds of challenges. The identification and recognition of knowledge are one of the discussions at both Nordic and EU level, and of course it is worth promoting the removal of barriers to this kind. We have had quite a topical issue here recently, the Posting of Workers Directive. I was there. It was a 15-hour meeting, which was then put to the vote. There were a few countries that did not go along with this, but the majority did. Of course, this tells us that when there are many countries, it is not at all easy to reconcile ideas and positions in these matters. First of all, I am pleased that Parliament gave strong support and space to that meeting in order to take this important issue forward. If you somehow summed up the directive that was sent, then the idea is the same job, the same place, the same salary. In a nutshell, this is pretty much what this is all about. In many countries, practices regarding workers' rights and obligations are quite diverse. Finland is often in such a situation that when a directive is being offered, we already have things much longer than that directive requires. So many times the problem is not here in Finland. The problem is perhaps more that we have to defend the good that we already have, that it is not being taken in such a way that Finland has to be flexible in the other direction. I believe that this is important for the EU to pursue the good that exists in the Finnish system in many respects. Where Finland may differ most clearly is this universally binding collective agreement system, the justification of which becomes more challenging each year. This is, of course, a debate that will have to take place in this country at some point, what the system is like. So I am in favour of this universally binding system, but I see that it is constantly being challenged from all sides, and it is indeed an exceptional system in Europe. It is not so easy to defend it, although we consider it to be a good system. As far as it is concerned, the minimum wage system or something else is not a simple thing at all, but this debate is certainly still ahead of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u199	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 16/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u200	Madam President! In our objection, we address the challenges of sports facilities construction. The Government proposes funding of 18 million for the Tampere multi-purpose arena. The project is important and improves conditions for top sports, culture and other major events, as well as frees the traditional Haka Metsä ice rink to serve not only hockey but also the top competition conditions for other ball games and other sports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u203	Mr President! Important issues are on the table today when we talk about this amending budget. The Government's proposal includes a step in the right direction to respond to a positive structural change. And this positive structural change has now been channelled through conversion training to the article on higher education. In this respect, the Government proposes an increase of EUR 10 million to support positive restructuring and thus conversion training. Around 550 students have been estimated to participate in the training with this additional allocation, and in that respect it is a place to stop. We believe that this conversion training is an excellent tool for responding to a positive structural change, and thus conversion training is good and well-founded training. But the central question is whether the government has been able to correctly assess the need for this conversion training in this country. In the committee's deliberations, the Civilization Section examined the matter with considerable precision. We have examined this need for conversion training in different areas in the name of a positive structural change. Surprisingly, as an example of my own country: Imagine that in Satakunta alone there have been some 700 new jobs for engineers and engineers in 2017 — that is, 700 jobs for diploma engineers and engineers. In fact, 700 job vacancies have been created in Satakunta, but unfortunately only 5 to 20 % of applicants have been present. This is the bottleneck we are talking about when we talk about responding to a positive structural change. It can't be like the finance minister says here that it will. Varsinais-Suomi is spreading, you know, like wildfire in Satakunta at some point when investing in positive structural change in Varsinais-Suomi. I would also like to ask whether this line of action is in the right direction, that it is thought that conversion training should be supported in the 550 main chapters next year, and that, in practice, conversion training should not be met on the scale that this positive restructuring would require. That is why the SDP, supported by the Greens and clearly supported by other parties, suggests that the government should now take more active measures to strengthen the regional economy, the local economy and the positive structural change on an equal footing throughout Finland. We also propose separately to the main class of OKM, the article on higher education, that this should be put right at the same time. Money would be put where regional economies can be supported and where it can be genuinely supported that this lack of skills, which is clearly affecting certain regions, can be remedied. In addition to this Government's EUR 10 million contribution, we are proposing EUR 12 million in support of universities in areas of positive structural change — and I believe that this proposal will receive praise from Parliament. Mr President! We have gone through structural change on a wider scale. In the areas of positive structural change in particular, investment is also needed, the development of a transport network is needed, and that is why we want to present EUR 10 million for bus projects in support of the regional economy and local economic policy. The example of Äänekoski is solid in our minds, in which in this way, even infra-inputs, can be supported by big business projects. We also propose in Section 32 that EUR 10 million be added to support research, development and innovation, because in this country, industrial and innovation policy goes hand in hand with the possible growth that we can support here in the regional economy world. In other words, positive structural change in the various regions, that is the recipe for our amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u204	Madam President! Tampere's so-called experience arena is in itself a very good project. It certainly sums up the urban structure, and it is not up to us in Parliament to take a stand on town planning. But what amazes me about this is why this business-driven gryndaus project is being supported with so much state money, and especially why the lottery money is being used. When I was Minister of Culture and Sport, there was a very strong lobbying behind this project. That is why we went through the project with a magnifying glass with the officials. Normally, sports facilities projects can receive a maximum of EUR 750000 of state aid. This can only be reversed if the project has a significant physical activity policy dimension. There are so many ice caps in Finland that one more is not of national significance. However, the project includes the fact that the old Hakametsä ice rink will be made a representative hall for indoor species, which does not exist in Finland. It was the unanimous view of the officials that a maximum of EUR 4 million could be allocated to the project, and precisely because of this indoor ball hall project in Haka Metsä. Mr President! Against this background, it was therefore very surprising when Mr Grahn-Laasonen, the then Minister for Sport, suddenly put an additional EUR 14 million over the previous EUR 4 million on the project. And now we are dealing with this EUR 18 million state aid because the present Minister Terho has brought it to Parliament through the government. You cannot share or at least should not be able to distribute subsidies to companies for housing or other business projects. The fact that a share of more than 4 million is derived from undivided betting profits does not eliminate the fact that this business and gryndaging project is eating away other cultural and physical resources, money for leisure activities for children and young people. If, for one reason or another, the government wants to provide corporate support for a project of this kind, it should be done in a transparent manner and, above all, it should not be used for profit. Madam President! Here, when the referral debate was about this amending budget, many said that this is now a new opening, so that this brings to a whole new level the funding of these: Jyväskylän Hippos, Turku Ratapiha, Oulu’s multipurpose arena, probably Helsinki Garden. No, no, no. This is exactly the opposite. This is where we eat the funding, the undivided pool of profit which could be used to support some very specific projects. Madam President! It is not only the Left Alliance that has drawn attention to this strangeness, but also the State Sports Council. In its own opinion, signed by Chairman Tapio Korjus, the Sports Council has stated, inter alia, that, as a result, the budget for the State Sports Act is almost entirely made up of the proceeds of Veikkaus. The undivided profits of Veikkaus are also of great importance to the beneficiaries of the sports industry. Therefore, their targeting must be transparent, transparent and use the best available expertise. The funding of national sports and sports conditions must take into account the expertise of the Finnish Olympic Committee, organisations promoting physical activity, municipalities, regional government agencies and the State Sports Council. The role of the Ministry of Education and Culture is emphasised in the overall consideration process, and the Sports Council considers it important that it should be asked for an opinion before the decision is taken in all situations where state resources are being allocated to the construction of sports facilities. Madam President! All these support the fact that Mr Uotila's proposal should be accepted in order to make sense of this decision-making system, and that is why I support it. As a radical young man, I could have made firmer statements, but now let's accept this Uotila pomp unanimously, and everyone will feel good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u205	Madam President! The third amending budget for 2017 well describes the current situation. However, employment is constantly improving and offers new opportunities for budget preparation. It should be noted that the EUR 77 million promised for innovation funding is, however, appropriate funding at this time, because innovation is a priority and it is precisely about creating something new. Finland has always been criticised for having excellent inventions, we have extremely good production, but marketing and the related sales work have been slightly worse. It has now been invested in many ways, as we have already dealt with many times in this Chamber. Funding related to foreign trade has been increased and new opportunities for exports of Finnish products and increases in foreign trade are created. This additional budget includes EUR 11 million for migration expenditure and EUR 10 million for conversion training for those with higher education. We all know that in some areas there is currently a crying shortage of labour, and it is right that people who have already been trained should be directed towards new careers. If you do not find work in the actual bread industry immediately, then you will be assigned to the new work. You should also draw attention to the fact that we already have a shortage of labour in the surprising sectors. In normal occupations, such as waitresses and the restaurant industry, there is a very urgent shortage of labour. There are dozens and dozens of places per city and per town, there is an opportunity to get new jobs, but there are no employees anywhere. It is worth cooperating with the ministers and the authorities in charge of the education system to finally get this problem over with, so that where there is work, people are directed to work and not kept on the unemployment card, because it is too expensive for this nation to play with. The fact that the Tampere Multipurpose Centre is funded is a good thing. It's an international competition center. It will ensure, among other things, that big international competitions are brought to Finland, including the World Ice Hockey Championships and many other major events, because that old Hakametsä Hall will then be repaired into a ballpark, as Mr Arhinmäki mentioned in his own speech. But when this Kymi Ring, or the construction of a motor racing track near Kouvola, has risen to the same debate, Madam President, I have wondered what a miracle it is being treated with such blunder, because if someone in this world is going to go and run like the Finnish formalists have done all the time since Keijo Rosberg, then we will have a little history on that side too. I understand that this has nothing to do with Tampere, but as an example, why one is supported, but the other is not supported. [KristaKiuru’s interlude] But then one thing that many people have drawn attention to, Mr President, is that we are talking about supporting different livelihoods and, for example, about new jobs in rural areas. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether it would be good to finally and finally see that, in this House, for example, when we have discussed the Land Use Directive, this famous LULUCF, and the sustainability criteria for renewable energy, RED II, would we have such a place for cooperation to see that these barriers would not be piled up, as many people in this Chamber have objected to increasing the use of forests. After all, we now have the prospect of a millennium of increasing work and livelihood in this country by giving new opportunities to use forests. In this House, too, I know that many speeches have been made, particularly among the Greens, that there has been a very heavy criticism, that forests should not be further cut, not even compared to what Sweden is doing as a member of the European Union. Why is it in Sweden, but it's not in our house? That's what I've been deeply wondering in the quiet hours of the night why it doesn't come here. Moreover, these jobs, which are created on the side of the forest industry — and we must remember that there is not just the forest industry, there is the chemical industry, there is the metal industry, there is the electrical industry, there is everything, there is transportation, there is a huge amount of work to be done through the various links. I hope that there will be no further opposition to this, because these jobs do not need almost any state support at all. Everything is done on market terms, and they are also permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u206	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen has heard my speech, which I was the first to make. We are not voting against the financing decision of the Tampere project, but we are criticising this procedure by which the Tampere project has been brought unexpectedly, multiplied by the funding that is in the proper preparation, and in this context we have taken Kymi Ring as a bad example. And when Mr Hoskonen said that there has been an appeal: yes, there has been an appeal, and the administrative court of Eastern Finland has condemned the decision of the Board of Governors to be unlawful and also to an incorrect order on the grounds that even the 2 million capital loan represents an excessive financial risk for the city of Kouvola. In other words, these projects are from a completely different world, and there is certainly no justification for this kind of asphalting of the South-East Finland pine cloth with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u207	Madam President! Indeed, I did not compare these projects with those of any representative, nor did I criticise them, but I used it as an example that, as I said, the Tampere project is a good project. We need international events here because every event we get here brings us a good, positive image, more tax revenue and more events, more activity in the economy in general. And Kymi Ring, which is a project of its own kind and does not depend in any way on the Tampere project, should be an example of the fact that we should see opportunities there too. And as I said just now about the potential of the forest industry: What is the reason why, in many speeches in this Chamber, we are opposed to increasing the use of forests when, moreover, they are on a sustainable basis and are not bad for climate policy? On the contrary, it is a positive thing. In many speeches we are opposed to things that are genuinely possible for us and which, from the point of view of central government, contain no expenditure, only revenue. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a little bit more heart to the fact that we do not shoot our own ankle every single time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u209	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this third amending budget, such as investments in support of innovation and in the conversion of higher education. These are the measures that are absolutely needed now that the economy has turned to growth. However, the Finns of Peru have protested, with three proposals for a change of budget by item and one proposal for a statement. We have drawn up this objection in such a way that the total amount of the amending budget does not change as a result of our proposal. First of all, we have raised, or we object to, the total reduction of this additional amount of 11.2 million proposed by the government for aid to customers in reception centres. We consider it inconsistent that the level of expenditure on the asylum crisis will continue to be high, despite the fact that the number of people in reception activity has fallen significantly over two years, that is to say since the worst time of the 2015 asylum crisis. When the number of users has fallen, it should have happened that the more expensive reception centres would have been closed and thus the average unit costs would have to show a decrease. However, this has not happened and unit costs have even increased significantly. We believe that the numerous measures required by the Government's asylum policy action programme, which was published in December 2015, would reduce Finland's attractiveness and would also reduce the number of asylum seekers and, from the point of view of both national security and cost implications, these measures should be implemented without delay. We propose that the government increase in funding for the maintenance of asylum seekers be allocated to training and research and to the development of transport routes in the following way: Firstly, we propose to add EUR 6200000 to the common expenditure of higher education institutions and science in research and development activities of universities of applied sciences supporting business life. In addition, we propose developing and increasing the transport network by EUR 5 million for bus projects in support of regional economics and local economic policy. In our view, these investments would significantly improve the operating conditions of the industry and it is important to safeguard them now that the boom has started slowly. The total of these two additions is indeed the same EUR 11.2 million that we would cut, we would reduce aid to the customers of the reception centre. Mr President! In addition to this, we are also very concerned about the hasty and confusing preparation of the social welfare reform, the vague situation and the fact that the planned savings are threatening to fall completely at the foot of the political game and the you-mu-division game. In our view, the cost of freedom of choice, for example in relation to changes to the customer voucher, is threatening to rise sharply. In order to keep the costs of social protection under control, it is entirely justified that any increase in freedom of choice should be based on the practical experience gained from pilot projects and on the information studied. Therefore, the Finns of Finland propose the following statement to the Parliament for approval: "The Commission requires that the government prepares the freedom of choice on the basis of the We believe that, if this statement were implemented, it would oblige the government to prepare for social reform in such a way that the costs would indeed be kept in check and that a solution would be found that would serve the real users of the reform, that is, all our citizens. Mr President! Finally, with reference to the previous debate, I would like to say that in our view, the proposal for a statement by the Left-wing Union and the RKP, which emphasises the role of the State Sports Council in making decisions on the financing of sports facilities, is as such a good one and is to be supported on the basis of the arguments put forward earlier in this plenary, in particular because the distribution of money should be based on both transparency and predictability in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u210	Mr President! This Tampere project was also on the agenda here yesterday when we discussed the supplementary draft budget, and I already told you that I would give it all the support, of course, and I think it is important that there should also be support from Parliament as a whole. I am not going to repeat it, but yesterday, too, there were positive factors which are in this project in such a way that not only this arena, on the one hand, but also the development of the Haka Forest, on the other hand, give it a great deal of dimension. All in all, it is always good to support sports, sports and hobbies, and I would like to say that, overall, I would like to see the importance of sports, sport and culture projects for regional economies in terms of how much positive, good, employment they can bring to the regions. I remember the Pirfest study that various cultural events in the Pirkanmaa region, for example, bring about a couple hundred million good to the regional economy, and that also shows why we must be able to invest in both culture and physical activity. I think it is a very important and valuable factor. Well, talking about regional economies leads to the next question, which Mrs Kiuru has just spoken about well and rightly, which is that the SDP sees that we must now wisely support regional development throughout Finland, and we must be able to support these positive structural changes better than today. That is why I support these proposals from the SDP, which assume that we support this positive structural change in different regions of Finland, both through higher education conversion training and these investments, as well as through various bus projects, and I also believe and hope that there will be broad support in this Parliament for these ideas. The overall economic debate here is going to be a little smaller, but I would point out yesterday that this too would have been an opportunity for the government to open up for justice, and I hope that we will see them in the future, among other things, so that growth actually belongs to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u211	Madam President! Today's news from Finland to the world is probably the results of the Pisa studies. Finland was well placed again. We were the seventh, although it is not quite as good as at its best, when we have been the world's leading country in the organisation of basic education. However, this Pisa research constantly attracts interest from around the world, and there will be surveys in Finland, how the results of the Pisa study have been achieved and what could be done in their own countries. That's good. Unfortunately, two months ago there was a comparison between the OECD countries, where Finland was far from doing so well. Various competition factors had been examined and 137 countries were involved. Unfortunately, Finland was ranked last, measured by the rigidity of the labour market. Yesterday, I attended the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy to visit the Bank of Finland, which reviewed the developments in employment in the various countries during this millennium, and the most memorable detail was the recovery of Germany. It reorganised the labour market through the so-called Hartz agreement, which made local, company-specific agreement quite different from what it had done in the past. It was a dramatic increase in employment. Of course, it has to be admitted that different pay systems do not necessarily guarantee an adequate standard of living for individuals there, but social support measures are then being supported. It's better to have a job than no job. The fact that you are in the workplace is usually about improving your skills and getting ahead. This example did make me wonder how in Finland, where the only one in the world is a universally binding system. In my opinion, contrary to the Constitution, which says that everyone has the right not to agree or agree when universality binds those who have not been on either side of the bargain. In Germany, universality means that if you accept universality, it is up to you, but in Finland it is mandatory legislation, and so far nowhere has it been measured whether it is in accordance with the Constitution. At least it's not in its spirit. From the labour market point of view, the most awkward group in Finland is young men whose studies have remained at the level of comprehensive school, whose access to employment is the most difficult. The unemployment rate is enormous, and I have often wondered if something could be done quickly. One solution that has come to mind is that, with the new Transport Act, it is possible to issue a professional driving licence to a 21-year-old and the Finnish army constantly train thousands of young men to obtain a professional driving licence, this training could be increased quite well. The military has all the facilities, equipment and experience to do so, but there is no budget. However, these same young men are often the burden of the state through social and health spending, with a much higher amount. If these people were invited, young men who are in primary school and the future does not look very rosy, and if they were willing to take part in a more limited military training which would result in the value of a service soldier, but above all in the fact that a practical job application would then include a professional driving licence, then I think this would be of practical importance for the employment of these young people, and thus the cost structure of society would also be slightly facilitated in terms of social security. Madam President! I hope that in the next budget negotiations it will be possible to consider whether some of the funds from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health can be transferred to the Finnish army for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u212	Mr President! I would just like to support the representative in saying that, when we look at the obstacles to this growth, there are other things besides the functioning of the labour market that should be taken into account. You have made a good example of the fact that, in reality, our big problem is that 15% of the age group is thus leaving school to primary school. The permissiveness that society has to do with this issue will lead to a negative outcome for this society. On an individual basis, too, the price of our young people not getting more than 40% of their employment rate is a big issue for society in the future. I would pay a great deal of attention to the fact that our young age group is going to school, and young men between the ages of 20 and 24, 21% of whom are already outside education or employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u213	Madam President! It would be appropriate to begin with the dismantling of generality. It's a unique system, the only system in the world. I do not believe that it has significant export opportunities, but if it were to be dismantled at home, the problems of the representative would at least be overcome in part, because that was the solution to the German labour market reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u214	Mr President! If we want to increase the employment rate, the most effective measure is that every young person who is capable of second degree actually completes secondary level rather than the proposal of the representative. The idea that nine classes in Finland would be enough in the future — it is just not possible. If we genuinely want to increase the employment rate, then the fact that our young people go to secondary education, which would be free of charge, would at best lead to an increase of at least 3 percentage points in the employment rate. The goal of this government was precisely the 3 employment units that will not be there now, because there was no desire to extend compulsory education. Instead, we want to condemn many young people to a 40% employment rate, otherwise it would be 70. Yes, growth and labour market reforms are particularly concerned with the creation of skilled labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u215	Mr President! I don't really believe in the kind of training that the person involved is forced to do. Yes, the motivation must be so that it is also completed with the skills that are then intended to be carried out in the labour market. I do not understand that, in Germany, when Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, contrary to his own social democrats, got through this reform, why, then, in this forward-looking social democratic movement, this idea is not even being taken into consideration. For the first time, Mr President of Parliament, I heard that the Minister of Labour had also begun to suspect that there might be a place for reform. In 50 years' time, when the Finnish economic history is written, there is a rather gloomy figure, which is roughly entitled 'general commitment'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u216	Mr President! When this is a challenge, I'll sue you back. I have always wondered that it has not been tried since the '70s that the youth age group will be able to finish secondary education because the argument has been that not everyone is in the mood. What if, when elementary school was invented, it had been thought that the six classes would be enough for us as in Guatemala — but even there the Minister of Education thought that the Guatemalan Indians should have all of them in school, and nine classes for them too were the goal of primary school. If there are nine classes of compulsory education in Finland and Guatemala, then we must start to wonder here whether it will be enough to get a trained, skilled workforce. This is particularly ruled out by many parties in this time and debate; this is something that cannot even be discussed. Since the 1970s, there has been no desire to reform the fact that compulsory education has been extended and that the second level has been completely converted free of charge. This would have led to young people receiving a secondary degree, as is the case today with nearly 100 percent of young people in primary school.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u217	Mr President! I suspect that the educators are right: not everyone enjoys theoretically colored teaching, no matter how hard they try to taste it. Practical work and practice may be more suitable for some. From the point of view of society, it's the end result. If you get motivation for people to try and move on with life, or through training, or even through the army, then I prefer it than trying to give all people a very theoretically focused, long education. Some people don't. Some people don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u218	Madam President! After following this debate on the supplementary budget, it is forced to think of the fact that, in general, it is absolutely crucial for central government and public finances that people really have work to do. And now that reference has been made to the Hartz reform in Germany from 2002 to 2005, which this German staff manager, Peter Hartz, designed — his fate was, of course, very... — his actions remained in German history: employment improved. Of course, there were problems, but as Mr Lehti quite rightly said, it is better that there is some kind of work and then that society helps if it does not make it clear, and that every person gets some degree of work experience and then also that famous social security and pension provision for the old days. But what is extremely important here is to note that Germany operated that system. It is their system, they did it from their own perspective, and there is still a high employment situation in Germany, and the German economy is growing at a tremendous rate. I guess it is, or it is for sure, the only country in Europe that produces huge surpluses per year: public finances, state finances, and the economies of municipalities and cities too. But we should take into account in Finland that this Hartz reform as such would probably not bring us every person any lottery victory, but that we should develop a Hartz reform that corresponds to our own starting points in this country, whatever the name it will be. But it is clear that, in a very many sectors of society today — as I mentioned in the previous speech — there is a huge shortage of labour in the restaurant sector, and today’s truck companies complain that they are not getting young men and women into the wheel of the car, nothing, there is a huge shortage of skilled labour in the forestry machinery sector, there is a huge shortage of labour in the machinery industry — we clearly have genuine needs for improvement. I hope that they will be taken up, and that it must take place in the next few years, because we do not have time for that anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u219	Mr President! Today, after all, there has been a debate on how to achieve growth in the regional economy. We have tried to challenge the sitting government that structural changes should also be addressed in these areas of positive structural change. It is absolutely unacceptable that if the regions needed both diploma engineers and engineers to boost export-driven growth, they would not exist. When we here call for conversion training to make more of these important experts available to the labour market, then we in the Committee on Finance hear that this need is quite cheeky and that the budget has been misjudged. That is why we Social Democrats have proposed that 12 million more money be put into this now, and we will stick to it. There is a huge shortage of diploma engineers and engineers in the Satakunta region alone, and we should be able to meet the need that is crying out. At the moment, the Government does not make a positive structural change at all in Satakunta, but, in response, the Minister of Finance has stated that it is expected that the fruits of the positive structural change will flow across the Southwest Finland border. In this respect, the line is wrong, because I would like to emphasise that Pori's combined euro-denominated exports are larger than the euro-denominated exports from Turku and that there is a big difference in size between the cities. Support for positive structural change is therefore important, not only in Satakunta, but in various parts of Finland. We have also proposed infrastructural projects to bring about this positive structural change, and at the same time we would also be prepared to invest much more in innovation, science and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u220	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 13/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u221	Mr President! There is a new law on first names and surnames, which speeds up and clarifies the processing of name matters, and, among other things, applications for names will be partly electronic. In the future there may be four first names instead of three, and different combinations of surnames, combinations of two surnames, will be made possible in a new way. For example, the whole family can take the same combination of two surnames. The proposal also improves gender diversity. For their part, the situation will improve, although it is the case that maintaining sexual ties is the main rule for names. However, it will be easier to change the name in the future, since the first name established for the other sex can be accepted for the opposite sex, first of all when those first names have been entered in the Population Information System for at least five living persons. In such cases, there is no need to invoke another exception criterion or to present a further explanation, thus facilitating the possibility of introducing an established name for the other sex. This is, in fact, an important question for human rights, because everyone should have the right to have his own name, the name that he feels is right. The practice of applying the law also changes in such a way that there is another special reason for derogating from the sexual link of the first name, for example, when a person, based on his or her gender identity, wishes to have an established name for the other sex. The application of this provision is not linked to the process of strengthening gender, but can also be applied to other cases related to gender identity. The determining factor in the application of the derogation criterion is only the applicant’s own experience of gender identity in a reliable way. This requires significantly less explanation of a person's gender identity. This is particularly important for transhumans. It should not be required that a person be in a sex change process, but that he may take the name that he feels is his and declare it to be his or her own identity. In the future, it is essential that the law be applied in the way it was intended by the Committee on Legal Affairs in its report and in the way it is also referred to in the Government's explanatory statement, and the Ministry of Justice should therefore provide clear guidance on this to the Local Register Offices. The committee has stated in its report that the committee considers that the proposed exemption criteria provide an appropriate and sufficient opportunity to derogate from the general rule on sex-related status of the first name. Among other things, they enable a person’s first name to consist of an established name for both sexes or for one or both sexes, an unestablished name for either sex or a combination of them. For example, it is possible to give the above-mentioned combination of names to an intergender child if it is considered to be in the best interests of the child. The best interests of the child have been thoroughly examined in this report and it is stressed that the best interests of the child should be taken into account in the decision-making process on the name of the child. A person aged 15 or over may decide on his/her own name in full independence and the name of a person aged 12 or over cannot be changed contrary to his/her written consent to the change. Nor can the name of a minor be changed contrary to the will of a child 12 years younger than his or her age if he or she is so developed that his or her will can be given consideration. Mr President! Here were briefly the main points of the law. What I consider most essential is the change in the fact that, based on human dignity, people will in future have the right to the name they feel is their own.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u222	Mr President! The committee's report on the amendment of Articles 8 and 9 of the First Names and Surnames Act and the Law on Registered Relationships is a phenomenon of our time. The fact that the number of first names is kept as a standard, four names, that no more names can be given to the child is all right, because I have seen in the United States such practices that have given the child names of the family so that all the first names of the players of some famous rock band have been repositioned in a row — that's how the little person is confused when one day he should know his own name. As far as the Surname Act is concerned, I understand that there are situations in Finland today where, for example, spouses can retain their own names when they marry, it is quite understandable today, and I think there is nothing more to be said about that now. But when these transhumans and such extreme exceptions are spoken of and are used to draw big lines on how to do this, think after decades when there is beginning to be people with many surnames, and then when you go into marriage or a relationship and it is registered, if you do not enter into marriage through church marriage but register a relationship or then have a civil marriage at the Local Register Office, then when you have these combined surnames, then it is nice to write a name on a paper when you have seven surnames in a row. This is going to be a herring salad that no one will ever be able to understand. The fact that in this time we have a spread phenomenon in which this kind of traditional family connection is sought to break down, I find it very damaging, extremely harmful to Finland's development in general and its small child. These different name laws and such specialties, which have recently been sought — this name law may be an example of it — start from an adult’s point of view. No one seems to be interested in the position of a child in this country anymore, in protecting the life of that little person and making his life safe. It just feels like there are transsystems of all the world and name laws of all the world that are so messed up as a wall clock — so confused as a wall clock that soon the ordinary person will not be able to make sense. You have to be almost a lawyer before you understand what this is all about. And then we're gonna appeal to that little person to know. After all, raising a child belongs to the parents, and surely a little child does not yet know if he is a transhuman or what he is. Then, as an adult, you will find out when that identity is formed, but that identity is formed in connection with the family where the child grows up. Today, when these phenomena are being followed over there and read a variety of wild stories in the papers, one can only wonder how we usually have gone through this. As far as the name law is concerned, it is a good thing that this particular practice has been maintained, and also with regard to the surname, I appreciate the fact that the committee has reached a solution in which the protection of surnames is continued, that it is not just anyone who can now own it for himself, because it is precisely this human family connection that is being cut off and that this issue is being confused. When these traditional family values are no longer honorable and confused with the whole world, there will be a good outcome. But when that outcome eventually becomes a practice in the whole country, I would just say that is something no one will want.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u223	Mr President! I find what Mr Hoskose has said offensive. Mr Hoskonen, try to put yourself in the position of someone talking about you and the identity you have experienced in the same words as you are talking about gender minorities. Transhumans are not an extreme phenomenon, but individuals who have exactly the same right to experience their own identity as you and I, Mrs Hoskonen. It's not like the concept of "family" is blurry by letting everyone be who they are. The stronger the institution it is and the stronger the concept it is, the more people want to cherish it and start a family. That is why the equal marriage law was a step towards an ever stronger family institution, as it enabled more and more people to form its family and thereby build their lives. I also hope that you, Mr Hoskonen, before you go on talking about the crazier ones, like the ones on the wall, will look into this on the basis of research. For example, there are many examples of very young children experiencing conflict with their external sex. I personally think very differently from Mr Hoskonen. I would have been prepared and hoped that this legislative reform would have gone even more courageously and clearly in the direction of dismantling the gender-based structures of society insofar as they are harmful. It is gratifying that the committee has also considered this issue through the transgender situation, but even from this committee's report the fact that gender diversity is not yet fully understood. And personally, I do not understand what it is from anyone, that everyone is allowed to live and implement their identity as he himself experiences it. From the point of view of gender orientation, this has now been facilitated and the threshold has been lowered, which is good. But just as the committee in its report points out, this could have been written more clearly. So what is needed is a reliable reason. Personally, I would see that identity is a matter of human self-determination — in the case of an adult person that is unambiguously so — and there is no need to justify it in any way to anyone. In my opinion, a self-declaration is enough for a grown person to experience himself. What we draw age limits on issues like this is a more difficult question, and I am not taking a stand on it now. Since the recent changes in many countries, it has been found that it is not up to society to decide the sex of a person, but to wait calmly until he himself can tell us who he feels he is. It is amazing to me this fear in the face of diversity. Personally, I would think that a society in which people are well, are with themselves, will have the support of society to live as they are, is a strong society when it is made up of prosperous, strong individuals who have the right to their own lives. I will not tolerate any repression at all, and I believe that this is a question of human freedom. The fact that the Local Register Offices and the Nomination Board are given very precise and clear implementing instructions for this deviation is now very important in this respect. Since this is not clearly stated in the legal text, this may leave room for interpretation. And that is why it is important that, as soon as this law enters into force, clear guidelines of application have been issued in such a way that the matter immediately becomes just and right and therefore a practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u224	Mr President! Under no circumstances do I want to evaluate or put people in a ranking order. If anyone knows himself, even in the ways that Mr Modig has mentioned now, or their sexual orientations are what they are, I will not be bothered at all and respect their own decision. I will not go into that area in any way to judge goodness or weakness, but merely to judge that when that little child grows up in that family — and the talk that that little child may already have feelings — yes, the little child, if we start talking from a small baby, that there may be a trans or someone else, needs a safe home environment where he grows up and his identity is formed over the years. I was reading here the statements of Jari Sinkkonen, a psychiatrist, about these modern madnesss, for example, that girls are no longer allowed to be girls and boys are no longer allowed to be boys. When a little human child gets started from day care or from a very young age to talk about such restless things, then the night sleep goes and certainly the development of identity is disturbed. When Finland is alienated from these traditional methods of rearing, from the methods of raising the Christian tradition and from the basics of human life in general, the result is that it is then visible in the most strange ways. We adult people should now calm down and focus on things and shoulder the responsibility of our children. If we mix the heads of small people with all the crazy things in the world, then surely that's where the human psyche suffers. If since childhood life is one problem, you can know what the end result is. This is what I'm calling for. If a person feels drawn to the same sex, it will be all right for me. I've never resisted it. It's everyone's choice. But let’s leave the children out of such wildness that his tiny brain is confused as a child with things he doesn’t understand. Let the girls and the boys be boys and name laws, but there must be some morale in this job to respect the children and their lives, that they may be children and not the madness of the whole world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u225	Mr President! With all due respect to my colleague, Mr Hoskos: You don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u228	Let us first take Mrs Karimäki's speech and then Mr Hoskonen's.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u229	Mr President! Mr Modig made an important, good speech. Gender diversity is a fact. We cannot deny the existence of these people, as Mrs Hoskone has pointed out. We have no right to do that. It is simply wrong for these people's lives, well-being and even psyche. In its report, the committee has specifically wanted to change the current state of affairs that a person must be in the process of sex change in order to take the name that belongs to him. It is intended that the law will now be applied liberally according to how a person experiences his own gender identity. And, like Mr Modig, I fully agree that when an applicant reliably presents his or her own experience of his or her gender identity, an adult person's declaration alone should be sufficient at this point. And it must also be remembered that a 15-year-old also has the right to decide his own name independently. It is now essential that the instructions for implementation be made available to the Local Register Offices so that the law is applied in such a way that this will state of mind will also be realised. And like Mr Modig, I also call for a change in the translation. This is a question of human rights, a violation of human rights, that we have not yet achieved a transfiguration to the level that it is supposed to be in a European civilised state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u230	Mr President! In no case am I restricting a person who feels like a transhumane person or whatever he feels now. I have nothing negative about their lives, under no circumstances. Let each one live as he sees fit, and that is the onion. But when these little people's heads go from school to confuse all the world with wild thoughts and then the girls can't be girls anymore and the boys can't be boys anymore, there's gonna be a situation that no one can get any more of this kind of traditional life to live, but keep all the world crazy to go along with them from childhood. After all, for a child and a small person, when we create enormous pressures from the very beginning of school, it is probably an older age when we start throwing this computer side, and then we have more and more problems. That is what I am calling for from us adults: a stable, educational vision of this world. We have different exceptions, just as there are exceptions in human life, we have exceptions in genetics, we have exceptions in our ways — ok, we just have to accept them. But if a little exception comes and we go running after it, especially when you read the magazines of the day, it seems that we have nothing else in this world but an exception after the exception. This is what I'm calling for. The responsibility is that those children’s parents shoulder their responsibilities well and support the development of those people who grow up to be balanced, balanced adults to work for society. That's what I'm calling for. If a person feels like a transhuman or something else, I don't want to criticize it in any way, and I don't even go to that side to be champions. But on the side of these small people I am calling for everything, because in all these legal packages relating to this matter, what has been in this house, there is one thing that has always not been done: that examination of the status of a small person, the assessment of the impact of children. The rights of those small helpless people who cannot defend their own right, I defend and I will not give up on that, I will certainly not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-22-ps-122.u231	Mr President! I would encourage Mr Hosko to read the committee's report, which specifically examines the issue from the point of view of the child. That is precisely why the committee is not prepared to do what I myself would be, because it is precisely the perspective of the child. That is why the sexual orientation of the name as a whole is not ready to be freed, because it is in the child’s interest that there may be a situation where adults could give a name that would harm the child. But who said girls can't be girls or boys can't be boys? The fact that we would like to give up such sexual structures simply means not talking about journalists, so that the girl does not feel that journalists are men, it is not for me. A balanced child will certainly grow up when he is allowed to grow up in peace just as he is, supported and loved in it. I believe that we agree, Mr Hoskonen, that it is the duty of all of us here to look after the children's right, because they cannot do it themselves. We adults create rules and laws in this country, and that is the common responsibility of all of us. The transfiguration, as Mr Karimäki said, must be reformed, and that is a violation of human rights. We have, therefore, been pointed out on several occasions on behalf of the European Court of Human Rights, on the part of the United Nations, that our translation contains such provisions which are very much in violation of fundamental human rights and that it should first and foremost be reformed, because as such it is a violation of human rights. Unfortunately, this government has not found the desire and courage to remove this human rights violation from Finnish legislation. So we will be forced to sterilize people in 2017. I think it's echoes from very dark times.
