ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u1	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee, the Administrative Committee, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. The debate on this subject will take place until 7 p.m. The referral debate will be continued if necessary after discussion of other items in the order of business. If the debate ends before 7 p.m., move on to the next item in the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u2	Mr President! One hundred-year-old Finland lives in many ways during a time of transformation. One part of the break-in is to make a controlled change, to make a change, which is absolutely necessary if we are to survive the next decade. After today, Parliament will be dealing with a comprehensive reform of social welfare and health care. The legislative package speeds up the practical implementation of change and prepares responsibly for the future, a future that does not need to be predicted — we know what is coming. We must be able to stop the decline in social and health care services. One of the cornerstones of the bill, the last part, the Government's proposal on the freedom of choice of the customer in social welfare and health care is now being assessed by Parliament. The Government's model of freedom of choice is a practical, Finnish model. Based on the impact assessment, it has good opportunities to improve equality in access to services and to reduce differences in well-being and health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u5	Mr Kontula, and after Mr Kontula's speech, we will start the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u6	Mr President! Finns want a social welfare system that you can trust, from which you know you can get quick and expert help that treats people as equal regardless of their place of residence, age or income. This is not the system we have today. Finland’s health services are among the most unequal in OECD countries. We have private clinics for the rich, municipal health centres for the poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u9	All right, now's the time to ask for answers. We shall begin with two-minute speeches and then move on to one-minute speeches. — Mr Haatainen has the first floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u10	Mr President! The SDP wants a social welfare reform, one that secures good and functional services for Finns and a counterpart for tax banks. Now, however, the government is bringing about an unprecedented change to this basic solution, to these 18 provinces, a market-driven model of freedom of choice. As a result, there is now a risk that these functioning service chains will be broken down and the care packages will not be implemented, while at the same time the experts will warn that costs will increase. At the end of this road, customer charges may rise or services will be reduced. Mr President! It is now becoming the case that market players are being treated equally, but that customers are being discriminated against. Freedom of choice as such is a good thing, but this confused model, which has been chosen, does not achieve the best possible result. I ask: Why is the government not choosing a simple, clear model in which the future province could organise and provide services and to complement them could be provided with a customer voucher that is available in the government's proposals, complementary services, thus ensuring access to the doctor and to treatment and services? And when access to basic services and a health centre doctor is the big, central issue that people are talking about and also expect from the public, why is there simply no provision for a treatment guarantee, i.e. a time limit for access to a health centre doctor, and add nurse-doctor-partners to health centres so that these gaps can be filled where this does not work? In addition, 200,000 social and health workers, a professional, expect to be able to develop services on a long-term basis. Let's give them some privacy and give the Finns a system that works.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u11	Mr President! It is great that we now have this whole package on social and health care reform in our hands and in our hands in this Parliament. It is all based on the 18 provinces, the organisation's responsibility, which is complemented by the current Act on Freedom of Choice. I think it is essential, and perhaps too little attention, that we are talking, quite rightly and rightly, about a lot of different service providers: what is a public service provider, what a private service provider brings to this whole. But basically the core of this model is the strong province that needs to have wires in its hands, a clear view of the smooth care chains, the well-being of its staff throughout the chain, and thus the customer or patient at the centre of this care chain. We must inevitably shift our attention now to how the provinces prepare themselves for implementation so that, at the beginning of 2019 — freedom of choice in relation to the province takes place in a few stages — the responsibility of the province is sufficiently clear and strong. Secondly, I would like to say that it is worth noting that this does not mean that all health care and social services services end up being free of choice. There is still the most demanding part, such as on-call services or demanding social work, where responsibility lies with the strong regional organiser. And perhaps I should like to put a counter-question to the opposition after your rather gloomy speeches. If you recall last autumn's heated debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for example, on how the most demanding and long-term housing services for disabled people can be organised under the Procurement Act: now the Freedom of Choice Act brings personal budgeting and genuine self-determination to their own services beyond competitive tendering. I think it's a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u12	Mr President! It is very regrettable that this government proposal seems to contradict and betray all the objectives that the government itself has set for it. It should be noted that as a result of the Government's proposal, service chains will be fragmented, costs will increase and regional inequalities will probably also increase. One of the main problems is that this proposal still lacks a comprehensive information system that would enable regions to steer service chains and ensure that patients receive the service they need and do not fall between the services. Now there is no such system, and the government itself estimates that it may be completed sometime in 2025 or so. In other words, when this system is lacking, there is no instrument to control services, even though the government speaks in the same breath of information. Similarly, how do you in the government guarantee that the patient will be properly treated if, for example, a car accident results in a social welfare centre? How do we know what kind of background this patient has, for example, to avoid mistreatment? This is a very serious question. I hope you will respond to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u13	Mr President! It is excellent that the Freedom of Choice Act is now in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u16	Mr President! One of the main objectives of this government proposal is to curb costs, which means that this social welfare and health care reform as a whole seeks savings and that the government programme has set a saving target of up to EUR 3 billion. In practice, there are probably two ways to obtain savings from social services: either to increase customer charges or to limit the level and content of all publicly funded services. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] Currently, different health care charges are levied in different municipalities. For example, here in Helsinki, the health centre is completely free of charge for customers, while in Riihimäki, my municipality of residence, the customer pays EUR 20 90 cents per year for the first three visits. And this motion, which we now have, is extremely unfair. In any case, when customer charges rise in some part of Finland and then the level of services is reduced and the content is limited, the low incomes will receive fewer services, while those with good income will be able to use their own funds and buy these additional services on top of the value of the customer voucher.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u19	Mr President! One of the basic ideas and ideas of the whole social welfare reform is that basic services, basic health care, must be reached more quickly and faster. It is what the reform of social security is aimed at and is aimed at, and it is also one of the very important aspects of this freedom of choice legislation. It is very important that freedom of choice also affects those who may not be able to make choices directly, such as older people. Furthermore, the law retains the responsible worker and comes to the province to advise, but I would ask the Minister: what is the way to ensure that people are really able to make these choices? I regard this freedom of choice law as an opportunity for entrepreneurs. Small entrepreneurs are the ones that should also be taken into account and looked at. All in all, we have some 17733 micro-enterprises in Finland in social and health care, or 95%, and there are 783, medium-sized 118 small enterprises. How to ensure that everyone, including small operators, has access to the market? I also see this as a very good opportunity for female entrepreneurship. I very much welcome Rule 57. This will also increase the transparency of legislation. There is an obligation to provide financial and fiscal information, and that is a very good thing. If there was anything else we could hear about it. I also think it is very important that staff are consulted — this huge change also affects workers in the care sector — that they are involved in these major changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u20	Värderade Talman! Vi behöver en vårdreform som utgård från patienten och pathientperspectivet, en vårdreform som ökar jämlikheten och som också stävjar kostnaderna. Tyvärr framgård det av regeringens valfrihetslagpaket att så rai inte kommer att gå.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u21	Mr President! Experts and opposition concerns and the need for change have been consulted to some extent by the government, but only in part. The Christian Democrats have pointed out that, in fact, the biggest problem and, I might say, the heart of the poodle is that this government proposal will not strengthen integration as it disperses these service productions into separate companies competing with each other. This problematic infrastructure will, of course, remain, because it is basically at the heart of freedom of choice. This government proposal has sought to increase customer advice and guidance and the coordination of services, but the big question is whether this is sufficient, how can we continue to ensure that customers, patients, do not fall between these treatment chains, and especially when talking about customers whose choice and ability to make choices is weakened because of a situation in life, for example because of illness or disability. We have also criticised another issue relating to this equality. Of course, this is a question that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in particular, will clarify, because freedom of choice will only take place in part of these regions. In this regard, the Government has now sought a solution and added this Article 43 to the market failure. However, it is still a question of maintaining inequality between the inhabitants of the different provinces in terms of equality in the presentation. In this respect, it is certainly the most challenging task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to find out whether this is sufficient to guarantee:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u22	Let us now move on to the 1-minute replies and start by Mrs Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u23	Mr President! It is good that this proposal is finally coming here to Parliament. It is true, as the Minister says, that this is a huge reform. The government has placed a great deal of prestige on this, and this will change Finnish health care in a permanent way. It is therefore a pity that, for example, the opposition's ability to speak against established practice in this debate was undermined by the government parties. Mr President! The government says that the criticisms of experts have been taken into account. I hope so. But yesterday, for example, Heikki Hiilamo, Professor of Social Policy at the University of Helsinki, said that in this government proposal, minor corrections have taken a stance on criticism but that major problems have not been solved. The changes actually make the system more complex. Today, Raimo Sailas has said that the savings from this are based on nonsense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u24	Mr President! It is very important that, from the point of view of equal treatment for people, the Government's proposal explicitly emphasises the fact that if it is difficult to obtain sufficient social and health services in a region, the province must provide the services. It is essential that the public body ensures and promises to continue to ensure that people get to the doctor and treatment in all situations throughout Finland. As the Minister said, the public is a strong host and the private and the organisations are those who, in the future, will ensure that services are provided more widely. Thank you, Minister, and the whole government, for the fact that the bill has actually been adjusted in the right direction on the basis of the feedback. I feel that local small entrepreneurs also outside growth centres and also organisations have the opportunity to benefit from freedom of choice, in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u25	Mr President! In this way, the marketization of our social and health care in 2019 is a completely reckless and absurd project that would lead to chaos in our health care. This is the message from experts and from hospital and municipal chiefs. We do not have the information systems in place to ensure that the information runs in 2019 in such a way that the marketization you drive would not disrupt the services and make it difficult to secure the patient's care chains. Then I would like to give an example of the fact that this marketization can only work through experiments and training, but at a time when this pricing becomes expensive. This model means treating well-off patients at an increasing cost, and when you have savings targets, then it means that the services of the weaker ones will be weakened. The clients of occupational health care, 1.7 million Finns, here would mean social welfare centres
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u26	Mr President! It does surprise me that the left-wing Greens, including the Greens, point out that this is supposed to exacerbate inequalities in health services. What's the status today? People in occupational health care who are in such jobs have private insurance for those who can afford it, private doctors who can afford it. In public services, at least in the capital region there are mostly low income families with children, pensioners and unemployed people. With this reform, this freedom of choice, which is now better off, will be extended to all, to all residents, to those low-income families with children, to pensioners and to those unemployed. It is incomprehensible that the left is opposed to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u27	Mr President! The minor changes that the government has now made to this proposal will not change the enormous structural problems and risks involved in this model, particularly from the point of view of equality and cost control. Integration is not possible when a patient, depending on his or her condition, is taking care of his or her work in private social services centres, their subcontractor companies, perhaps on the part of the provincial business, perhaps in a publicly owned company or through an organisation. Cream scrubbing is still possible when private social welfare centres still retain the incentive to transfer patients who need expensive care to the county business, i.e. the public sector. And basic services will not be strengthened in a system that itself will raise the costs of the present, while the government at the same time wants to cut 3 billion. How does this equation work? You haven't answered that question once, because the only answer is that,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u28	Mr President! This is an extremely important reform, and it is great that we have a government that is able to reform Finland. Of course, this reform is extremely difficult and big, but its objectives are so noble that it is worth going to. The issue of equality has been raised here in particular. Yes, the fact is that after the left in Finland there is a privileged group, the well-earned, rich and employed, who receive services from a location of their choice. They have freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u31	Mr President! It would be so nice to defend this proposal for freedom of choice, because freedom of choice is, in principle, a joy, a good thing if it is done right. But the government itself does not seem to be sure that this will be done with certainty. Direct quote: "From the point of view of the objective of saving the war reform, the impact of the freedom of choice model on the realisation of savings is uncertain. The freedom of choice model offers opportunities to curb the spending framework, but the savings targets are nevertheless very ambitious. The implementation of the system of freedom of choice involves many uncertainties affecting cost developments." Should not a government, in such a large, huge, important matter, be more sure than uncertain?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u32	Mr President! The objectives set for social reform and the draft Act on freedom of choice are good in themselves, but in order to achieve these, it is important that domestic SMEs become a key asset of the reform. I'm worried about the impact of the law on small businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u38	Mr President! The opposition's attacks give us the impression that we should put the war back on hold and start over again. Is that what they want?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u40	Mr President! The customer's freedom of choice refers to the customer's right to choose a service provider. The province, the county business and the service provider of direct choice would be responsible for coordinating the services of customers in order to ensure that the customer receives the correct service at the right time. However, if a customer has chosen a certain health centre but is temporarily staying elsewhere and suddenly and quickly in need of health care elsewhere, can he go to the nearest medical clinic providing health services, for example, to receive tetanus vaccination? [Department:Can't! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u41	Mr President! I'm glad we finally got this whole thing. As Mr Puska said, it is not perfect: it is certain that repair packages will be needed. It is merely wisdom to admit that imperfect ones can be. What is the biggest change here is the change in this position. Our citizens will become customers instead of administrators. What amazes the opposition here is that attention is focused solely on this freedom of choice. I wish I could say that our provincial law carries a greater risk in terms of cost control. In fact, freedom of choice offers an opportunity. For the first time, different customer groups have been viewed here. It is precisely those who use the services most in the provinces. Under the responsibility of the region, the customer responsible person makes a personal plan for those who use a lot of services, after which the person can look either with his or her own customer responsible person or himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u42	Mr President! Extensive criticisms by experts were again ignored, and the government was, indeed, mainly making cosmetic changes to this proposal. According to experts, the government’s proposal increases the costs, even though they were originally to be saved. It shattered services, even though they originally had to be harmonised. It weakens equal services, even though equality was originally required to be increased. The administration is also growing, which cannot be considered a good thing, because it is also paying, and money was also to be saved. Public guidance will be replaced by market guidance. Already there are customers who are running big, and the big health service companies attract basic healthy occupational health care customers as their own customers. They get a reasonable fee, but the costs and risks are low. Then, when the wars start, it can be said that we already have a maximum number of customers and that many sick people can only fit in the local social centre. Would it not be possible, Minister, to increase that freedom of choice in a controlled and gradual way and not in a one-off fashion by imposing and endangering our entire system of social and health services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u43	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u44	Mr President! The law on freedom of choice is being assessed by the Constitutional Committee and is doing its own work. If there were to be a situation in which today's social security situation would be taken up for consideration by the Constitutional Committee, how would that equality, Paragraph 19, come about? The regions have a very important role to play in this implementation. The staff — every nurse, nurse, social worker, local nurse — should already be involved, today, here and now, in the preparatory work at the provincial level. Many here have asked for EUR 3 billion. You, ladies and gentlemen of the RKP, have read the very same texts that the government has written, but after your texts there are many other things that are intended to bring about a reduction in the cost of EUR 3 billion by the end of the next decade. That's the big goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u47	Secretary Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u48	Mr President! A few questions have been raised, firstly about this equality. If nothing is done now, then equality between people, the citizens, will increase, and that is why this reform is actually being carried forward. But I say that, and we all know that there is no lesson for all citizens that we cannot create such a system. But the fact that we are getting better at the present situation will be very much able to respond to this reform. Then I will also mention this 3 billion cost reduction target. They said the government would cut 3 billion. No, by the end of the next decade we will be seeking to reduce costs by EUR 3 billion, which is quite different. Each of you has looked at the growth in social spending in the near future, and there are very big regional differences. Some have been able to reduce in a certain way by making them more efficient and in a little new way by making them spend, but not everyone has been able to do so, and that is what we want to do. I recognise that there will certainly be situations at the beginning of this reform which will also increase expenditure. It is quite clear that when there is a major reform, there will also be an increase in costs, but one of the most important aspects of this reform is that we get basic health care in order, that is, primary health care, and when we get basic health care in order and people are able to use it more and also that preventative work, then we will save them the cost of special care, and that is one of the big objectives of this reform. Then I would like to mention this sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I believe that all of us in this Chamber want small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as sole entrepreneurs, to be involved here as producers. Here in the law on freedom of choice there are a number of points in the Act that can support this SME sector. These include, for example, this personal budgeting, the wider introduction of the customer voucher, and also the subcontracting of social services can enable entrepreneurship and then, perhaps, as a fourth point, the use of regional purchasing services. I would also like to mention the argument that this reform will reduce the health centre network. I would say that we in sparsely populated areas already have quite a few health centres networks, that it is difficult for me to see that there is no way out of it. But then I will say that otherwise the province is the one who decides on the network of central centres. The service network is decided by the province and not by this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u49	We will continue with one-minute responses, starting with Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u50	Mr President! The Social Democratic Party is in favour of freedom of choice. It is good that people have freedom of choice, but the model in which integration is jeopardised, the services are fragmented, the services are confusing for the users, the whole field is controlled and the service field is controlled, the overall management is somewhat impossible, does not reflect the social democrats' view of the freedom of choice that must be implemented. Mr Haatainen put it in a good way, when the special care side already has a medical guarantee, that we could now bring this concept of care guarantee to the basic service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u53	Mr President! This social reform will reorganise the operation of EUR 20 billion per year. It is clear that there are risks to all reforms. What is essential is that we know what risks we are taking. Now many independent experts have raised the risks of this reform, and one of the main problems with the government's proposal is that, although these risks are in fact partly recognised by the impact assessments themselves, their magnitude has not been assessed in any way. It is clear that there is still a risk of cream peeling and market concentration. Such a great gamble on the future of the welfare state cannot be made without clear analyses and calculations of the size of these risks. What happens when the planned measures to prevent cream peeling are inadequate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u56	Mr President! The government's social model does not solve the problems that the social reform started to solve, but creates a whole host of new problems. We need a reform of the social security system, but not in the model that has now been presented. We are ready for reform. We have presented our own models of this and we hope that they will be taken into account. The Government's proposal threatens to fragment the service chain, increase costs and increase inequalities, even though the objectives were precisely the opposite. The so-called freedom of choice model means the privatization and forced-on operation of historic services. It means the transfer of tax money to the profits of the social partners. When a large part of the tax money goes into the accounts of private companies, then the county will have little choice but to cut down public health centers. Mr President! The main problem with the current system is that you do not always get to a health centre when you have to get there. That problem needs to be solved, but not by massive coercion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u59	Mr President! Regional reform focuses on ministries, and regional reform is a disgrace to Finnish democratic decision-making, [ Intermediate calls from the Centre Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u61	Mr President! Social reform is essential and the expansion of freedom of choice is positive in itself. I would like to thank the government for the fact that there are elements here that were hoped for: for example, the phasing out of an excessively busy timetable and the more detailed regulation of patient guidance and advice and compensation for service providers, which aims to prevent this cream peeling. But the main concern still relates to integration, because the original objective was to curb cost growth by directing services under the same administration, both vertically and horizontally, in order to shift the focus to preventive services, and there is still a great deal of concern here. Now I would like to say that I hope that we do not populistly throw out such ideas,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u62	Mr President! "A great power brings great responsibility." I think there was one line in Spider-Man's comic, and that's fine for this conversation, too. When such things are involved [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] It is very important that every person, in spite of his own medical record and despite the thickness of his own wallet, can exercise freedom of choice in the way we now regulate in Parliament during this spring and summer. It is very important that we find a model for this freedom of choice that makes economic sense and does not allow any cream drinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u63	Mr President! In horror, I have listened to the criticism of the opposition,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u66	Mr President! Equality is at the heart of freedom of choice: that every citizen gets equal access to the service. That is what is happening in this proposal on freedom of choice. In the war, attention has been paid, and much has also been said, in particular, about international service providers and the possibility for small and medium-sized domestic companies to compete in the provision of services with these big giants. I would therefore like special attention to be paid to the matter in committee, as well as to the obligation to tax reporting to ensure that there are no loopholes — and, of course, in the absence of reporting and when there are few sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u67	Mr President! There are fundamental problems with the current freedom of choice model, which prevent the achievement of the agreed objectives of social welfare reform. In addition, the system is so messy that the process of change will be very painful. Marketization of services at a single rate is a leap into the unknown. The government has started experiments on freedom of choice, but no results are yet available. Why is freedom of choice not progressing gradually so that the results of the experiments can also be used? The lack of development of ict systems alone is a serious problem that prevents both rational choices and the management of highly acclaimed information. How do you lead with information if you don't have it? Services will be fragmented as the volume of the product multiplys. In that case, the flow of information will be the key. The transfer of income support to Kela and the information system problems encountered in connection with the payment of agricultural subsidies by the Rural Development Agency should be learnt. It's all about the war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u68	Mr President! Every human being is worth good social services. This government's choice of forced company and freedom of choice for social services is about a system change affecting the welfare society, which focuses on increasing the profit-making potential of large health care companies and the payment of these profits to ordinary Finnish people through taxes and higher customer fees. Professor Mats Brommels, a key figure in the preparations for the war, has warned for a long time that health care customer fees will increase and private health insurance will become more common, and this is precisely because this service promise, which the government has now been very talentedly silent about, will in practice mean that the service level will be reduced and the insurance and wallet thickness can then be used to buy a full service package from the social welfare centers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u69	I would point out that we should stick to this minute so that as many people as possible can talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u70	Mr President! We need a social welfare reform. It is not right for people to have to wait too long at health centres for access to services. Together, we have argued that we need better services, regional equality. We want basic health care to work and cost growth to be curbed. These were common objectives for all, when all eight parliamentary parties in the last term were engaged in social reform. Then all eight, or all seven, were against this model now presented. There was only one party, the coalition, that was the cause of forced company and so-called freedom of choice. Why now, suddenly, has the assembly been able to walk over seven other oppositions? — — — — A deal was made in which the city centre got the provinces, the Coalition Party got forced-to-ship, and the Finns of Finland got —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u73	Mr President! In this Chamber, we are used to having a little more meaningful discussion than Mr Arhinmäki has just launched. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u74	Mr President! The final piece of the Sote package, freedom of choice, has been brought to Parliament, and after that the package is ready for discussion. I therefore hope that it will be dealt with in a very factual and factual manner, despite the fact that there is a rather miraculous debate here. We have had freedom of choice for our customers up to now, but I agree that freedom of choice now allows everyone, including those with low incomes, to choose their own service provider according to what they think is best. The reform will very easily reduce the health centre network, because the province will make a decision on it, as the Minister here quite rightly said. This pressure to reduce the network of health centres comes from the need to do it more effectively and, unfortunately, this concentration is often taken as a means. However, we have experience in the Forssa region that every rural municipality can have health centre services and is the second to third most efficient service provider in the country. I am pursuing a local service law that would guarantee its true equality also for those people in remote areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u75	Mr President! This strong market penetration of services is no small thing. It is good for the government to know that once these services are transferred to the private market, they will then be subject to EU competition law, and if they are to be reinstated — that is to say, this will not work — it will not only succeed. It is only through the ruling of the European Court of Justice that this basic service can then be nationalised, as it were. In that sense, this is a very specific place. The second point relates to this tax planning and possible tax evasion and to the fact that the tax euro flows into other, foreign hands. These changes have now been made since this criticism, but they are still cosmetic. There we need to be openly informed about this information, about taxation and so on, but that responsibility rests with the consumer, the citizen who is seeking a doctor, that he will then choose the right and honest company.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u76	I now give the following answers: Mr Andersson, Mr Niinistö, Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Lindtman. Then the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u77	Mr President! It is precisely this cost risk, which is included in this model, that is the great threat from the point of view of the low incomes, because what we know is going to happen here is that the exclusivity of the well-being, well-functioning Finns currently using private services in this system will fall, and that is one of the reasons why the costs will rise. The second reason is that there is a lack of integration, which means that there is still a risk that these private operators will transfer responsibility for the costs to the public side of the province at a time when the need for patient care is greater. The third cost risk relates to these transaction costs, i.e. all the costs that this system entails and which do not exist in our current system: contract bureaucracy, contract law, service management, etc. This shall be the sum of:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u78	Mr President! The government is now irrevocably putting our social services on the market, and once that decision has been made, it is difficult to leave afterwards to correct it. This is also the experience in Sweden that once marketed it will be difficult to gain public control if the control systems do not work. That is why we should take careful and deliberate steps in this transition. This cost risk is so massive that you are putting this ship on the water so that there are gaping gaps. You put on a little Band-Aid and you said we heard criticism, but in fact you didn't do anything real. In this model there is a huge risk that freedom of choice will be used mainly by people of good standing and that they will also follow the image communication made by marketing it. Today, the Finnish social and health care system is being developed from the perspective of experts. In the future, the cost of well-off services will increase,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u79	Mr President! The OECD has seriously pointed out to Finland that our social and health care system is highly unequal. The big reason is that there are queues for essential basic services. Presence is costly for society but, above all, humanely.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u84	Mr President! It is repeatedly suggested that in the future, with this bill, for example, a low-income person could choose today to go to the Bee and tomorrow to the Terveystalo and the compensations follow. This suggests that even a low-income person can choose. This is not going to happen with this bill, but when the listing takes place, then one person will be stuck in this social centre for a year. As far as this cream peeling is concerned, as stated in the government's own proposal, at this start-up stage the fast eats the slow ones, and service providers should direct marketing to those they expect to receive additional services. These additional services are the new path of inequality, which the government itself states in this proposal, so, Minister Rehula, would you answer the question: if the experts continue to give serious criticism at the parliamentary hearing, are you prepared to break this link between the legislation on compulsory company and freedom of choice and other forms of social reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u85	Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u86	Mr President! According to this proposal, neither poor nor rich will be able to switch today from fluffy to bee tomorrow. [Heckling] In this solution the thickness of the wallet does not solve, has not solved during the preparation. It has never been during this very open process, where it has been reported in the last 1.5 years on the progress of this preparation, not at any point. This is Congressman Ville. Niinis talk about patching and spreading their hands. For example, for service providers, the compensation model has essentially changed in a way that takes better account of the needs of people than the version in the consultation. Mr Social Democrats, if this situation were to be filled by the fact that we would change the current health law, Article 51, paragraph 1, which currently reads as follows: "The municipality must organise its activities in such a way that the patient can contact the health centre or other health care unit immediately during the day-to-day hours. The health care professional must carry out an assessment of the need for treatment by the third day at the latest when the patient contacted the health centre..." — and the article continues — if your medicine for the erosion of our basic services is that we change this medical guarantee clause in the Health Care Act, then we will have a little bit of work left in the consciousness of the collapse of the organisation of our social services system. Our basic problem is not solved by giving the municipalities fresh air, but by making a change that allows services to be made available, regardless of the size of the bag, and especially in basic services. That's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u92	Secretary Mattila, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u93	Mr President! It is indeed a significant day. What is significant is that all these large legal entities are being evaluated by Parliament and are being brought to the parliamentary committees, that is, how this overall reform precisely protects citizens from such important basic services and that at the same time good Finnish administration, i.e. good administration and basic services for citizens, will be carried out. That is what we need, friends, legislation, and that is what we are here to do together. And we really need that integration. Here the opposition is saying that integration is being reduced. I don't believe it. I do not believe that this disrupts the treatment chains, but the other way around. And freedom of choice is an opportunity to increase integration, it is an opportunity to increase multi-disciplinaryism, enhance multi-professional work and specifically empower customers and find new service concepts through customer orientation. In other words, customer orientation in the SME sector is a good tool and it also has potential for new innovations. But, of course, we must take care of this social responsibility, and the Social Responsibility Act 57 at its sharpest emphasises it and, by doing so, strengthens Finnish expertise, local expertise. The question has then been asked whether it is possible to proceed through experiments. Minister Ruhula has just said that the government is already carrying out key projects, including freedom of choice, and it has already been well known and early to learn that the SME sector is already finding opportunities there. The provinces will then also proceed through these so-called pilots. This isn't a government that's breaking any content laws. In fact, I am wondering the question of what happens if a person is in a car accident, in a new model. It's going to happen the same as it is today. As a health professional, I find this to be a demeaning question. Even today and in the future, doctors and nurses know what is being done to the patient and how the information is going on. And then from a historical point of view. I have spoken before about the fact that we have had a lot of reforms in the municipal structure, in the service structures: there have been municipal federations under the Public Health Act, there have been Paras law. Our good administration, the good staff together, has also received, I would say, the highest quality of health care and social services in the world. But it is true that there are still problems that need to be overcome and looked to the future. We need to create a system that will last in the future. And then with regard to this question of what happens to sparsely populated areas, remote areas: After this reform, Utsjoki will hardly have health centres every 50 km. There is no such thing as this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u94	Secretary Risikko, three minutes. After that, we'll continue our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u101	Mr President! There are so many and so great problems with the government's proposal that there is absolutely no room for one speech. 600 experts and commentators have rightly been concerned about this proposal. Many stress that the risks are very high. The fact is that the government's structure is a big leap into the unknown. This experiment has not been carried out anywhere in the world, that is, in no other country in the world, and against that background I find it wonderful that, contrary to the opinion of numerous experts, more members of the government party here are prepared to take an oath that all of this will be wonderful, fantastic, fantastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u105	Mr President! I think that this debate has been good in the sense that many unnecessary fears and threats have been shown to be unnecessary by the ministers. No one thinks this is a fantastic reform or a great one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u108	Mr President! Quite a few Finns move and live around Finland, either because of their family, work or hobbies, and that means of course that health services are also needed in different parts of Finland, even if it is not about those acute visits. Now, however, if you choose the Kerimäe health centre, it has no partners, not in Helsinki or Vaasa. Nor does it have common information networks, nor do the small individual companies. But we have four big companies that have these networks ready. We have Aava, Attendo, Bee and Health House. The open area has more than 40 operating points, all of them up to hundreds, i.e. completed networks and information networks that speak the same language, and the customer can thus be a customer in many localities in Finland at the same time. Minister Ruhula, how do you secure and ensure that public operators are on the same footing as these large private giants?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u109	Mr President! Although I am no longer a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, unlike I did last year, I still trust that, if there are any problems in this system with regard to freedom of choice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which will give an opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, will certainly go through this carefully. Just as in the last parliamentary term, the model set by the then government and the majority of parliament stood still on the Constitutional Committee. I hope this will not happen, but the Constitutional Committee is the key player here. And this province model is the model of the Finns of Peru. It is in accordance with the wishes of the Finns. It has wide shoulders, there is no need for municipal joints, giant groupings, the integ panel and access to the doctor will be improved. So this model is our model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u110	Mr President! There has now been a great deal of praise here that this offers excellent opportunities for Finnish SMEs. I would see that this is particularly challenging and difficult for Finnish SMEs. For example, social centres are required to provide very extensive services, where small companies have no connection with competition. Yes, this favours these biggest corporate giants, [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u111	Mr President! As we are now reforming the activities, the easiest weapon is, of course, the resistance to change and the fomenting of fears. And as has been said about these rascal speeches, there are fears here — suspicions, alternative facts — but when you, the opposition, are ultimately asked 'yes or no', you will answer that freedom of choice is all right. Well, the Freedom of Choice Act is, however, an integral part of this social reform, especially in terms of equality. It is very important that it was finally brought here to Parliament, and it is important that it is dealt with at the same time as the other ones, those who have already entered the Parliament, the law on the organisation of social services and the law on enforcement, so that the quality of the legislation is not compromised and that this entity becomes the best possible. It has also been important for this freedom of choice to be implemented in a healthy way, so that even the smallest players have the opportunity to operate on the market, and for the public sector to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u113	Mr President! Health and medical care fall within the competence of the Åland Islands, but the proposal nevertheless has a number of immediate effects and side effects on Åland. Paragraph 4(2) of Chapter 2 of the proposal states: "The customer may choose a service provider from any region of Finland, unless otherwise specified by the Act." Quote for detailed reasons: "A customer could choose a service provider from the whole of Finland regardless of the region in which the customer lives." That is not true. The proposal does not take into account the fact that Finland consists of two territorial areas of competence for social welfare and health care. The province of Åland has competence in the field of social welfare and health care, and the freedom of choice that is now to be introduced is limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u114	Mr President! At the same time, there are huge regional and social reforms, and one important element is this freedom of choice in itself, and all this in a very tight and, in many respects, very challenging timetable. In order to avoid major practical difficulties and to provide the public with the necessary service and also the staff under pressure during the transformation process, the changes must be made in a controlled manner. This very important role is the clear management of the project. The information must go and the division of responsibilities must be clear. All this may appear clear on screen or on paper, but this must also be done in practice systematically. The key role of Ict and the constraints on timetables imposed by the great need of the experts, in practice their lack, have been known and taken into account. It is also essential to have sufficient human resources, full-time actors, to manage the transformation process. My question to the Minister is: have we given sufficient attention to this practical implementation of the change?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u115	Mr President! Here, Minister Risikko criticised the Members of Parliament for their bad information, but at least one should be fair, given that the government did not submit this proposal until yesterday and insisted on it today, and such a huge bill here without group speeches is a peculiar pattern of behaviour. I'll ask the impact assessments. The government has submitted a number of legislative proposals that have criticised missing or serious shortcomings in impact assessments. I ask how many times this same mistake can be stumbled. What are the financial estimates, gender or gender effects or child effects of this bill? Inequality is increasing. Here is a direct quote from you on your own proposal: "If the promotion of the overall well-being of the customer or his family is not sufficiently taken into account, the risk is that the model will improve the health and well-being of those who are already in a better position."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u116	President! It is true that there are many uncertainties and uncertainties in this proposal, but I do not understand the opposition's attitude that when you do not get the perfect model, then you do nothing. It annoys me, in itself, in this bill, that people are always talking about customers when they should be talking about people who need services. However, it is a good thing in this proposal that people in need of services have increased their autonomy and access to care decisions. These are great things. I am also surprised that the opposition paints such a picture that the service providers would become a wild west. Firstly, a register will be set up and there will be precise criteria laid down by law for access to this register and the possibility of becoming service providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u117	Mr President! It is clear that the current laws have not been able to secure high-quality healthcare and high-quality social services throughout Finland, and that is why we need a social welfare reform, we need a regional reform and then we also need this issue of freedom of choice. One small thing that relates to this freedom of choice but touches Finns terribly, among other things, is that cottage municipalities also come to the area of freedom of choice. Now there is a terrible amount of bureaucracy: is it allowed to deal with how to charge, and all this? This must be able to travel more smoothly, and it will also bring one more part to the Finnish health services. Then there is the interesting thing about this special medical care. There are probably many Finns who think that special care is also part of this freedom of choice. In a certain way it will be, but the definition of this demarcation will be, as well as the responsibility, to a large extent from the regions. And in this respect, this future administration of the provinces will play a key role in ensuring that this reform also goes to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u118	Mr President! Basic public health care needs to be strengthened, social and health services need to be integrated, but all this is wrecked by this government's freedom of choice. It is important for us to make public services stronger and wider on our shoulders, but many experts have made devastating criticisms in their opinions about this particular model of freedom of choice chosen by the government. It brings forced-to-carrying into public services, it brings complexity, it brings bureaucracy, it brings all kinds of difficulties to action, and it also puts public producers back on the road to large multinationals. I am still very concerned that the maternity clinic services were also left to compulsory companyisation and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u121	Mr President! It has been criticised here that the representatives of the government parties would take this as if it were fantastic and perfect — no! But I am absolutely sure that this will be better than today's basic public health care. Access to treatment will be faster and private choice will not be, as is currently the case with wallet thickness or insurance. There has been a lot of criticism in this debate, as has been heard, and there has been talk of exhilarating market forces. It is worth remembering that the organiser is the province, i.e. the public. Then one thing that has not yet been mentioned in this debate is the way in which compensation for service providers will be determined, and that will be decided by the provinces. There is one important way to achieve this by:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u122	Mr President! This is a war that lies ahead of the reform, and so will these changes in the information system. Patient records and their transfer have been extremely problematic up to now. At the moment, there are a huge number of different systems to which patient data have been transferred, and now they should be transferred to a single regional system. First of all, it takes a lot of money to put these together, and it requires a lot of systemic certainty, a lot of patient information and personal protection. Add to this the freedom of choice, and the system will be very difficult to deal with. So I ask the Minister: how has it been decided to invest in this? And then another thing: According to experts, it seems to be very expensive, even more expensive than is estimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u123	Mr President! The freedom of choice of people, citizens of the municipality, is indeed something to be welcomed, and the means — a service voucher, a customer voucher, a personal budget — are the right means to do so. It must also be borne in mind that the customer chooses its service provider, not the other way around, as many speeches here suggest. The customer can choose more versatilely and also get better information about what kind of service and quality he or she may be receiving. I find it difficult to understand why the opposition is opposed to these good things from the customer's point of view. It is very important that, as freedom of choice expands, a person receives that help, counseling in those choices, depending on the kind of personal situation he or she is in. I would therefore like to ask: how is this ensured, and especially from the point of view of how the opportunities offered by modern digitalisation have been exploited in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u124	Mr President! Effective social and health services are particularly important for the most vulnerable people. Under pressure from freedom of choice, the government has built a considerable administrative price in which services are fragmented and people are threatened to drown in this maze of companies. The government's freedom of choice model is built on the dictates of companies and markets. You would also be able to acknowledge this quite fairly in the government, because it is so strongly reflected in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u129	Mr President! However, I would remind you that there are also people working in companies, and they are the ones who keep this society up with their ability to pay taxes for their part. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u130	Mr President! I think freedom of choice is a good thing. Stronger involvement and involvement of the private sector will also improve the public sector service and will force the public sector to improve both the efficiency and quality of the service itself. For example, in southern Ostrobothnia, in my own province, we are going to be on the first wave of this pilot. We also want freedom of choice on the public side. But there are also good operating models where the private and public sectors work together through a social enterprise. There are also good examples of this in my region with the joint venture between Ähtär, Alavude, Huortane and Soin, which we have done with Pihlajalinna. Experience is good, cost savings have also been made. Time shows what will be good in this law and where there is still room for improvement, but it is clear that the current model of our social and health care services will not be able to produce in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u131	Mr President! I am very concerned that this multi-producer model has fragmented the service chains. In free elections, the Finnish people have elected me as a representative of the Parliament, and very rarely have I felt such uncertainty, even fear, as this freedom of choice legislation brings with it. By the way, this debate has left the power out of the fact that very many co-operatives and central municipal decision-makers have not at all accepted this integration of the regional government and the concept of forced-to-companies. In this way they are also experts, as are the hundreds of other experts who are very critical of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u132	Let's stick to this one-minute response time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u133	Mr President! Markku Pekurinen, director of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, has today expressed his concern that, when this new freedom of choice legislation comes into force, there is no national information system at the moment which would allow patient data to be transferred from a public operator to a private, private public and so on. In other words, when a person can choose any actor, there is no system for transferring information from one actor to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u137	Mr President! "I'm serious about the attitude. One to whom the word province already causes heartburn will come up with an excuse after another to slow down the process of social reform. When is it information systems and when lack of money or lack of guidance. The content of the reform is neither obscure nor unclear if you bother to study matters. Now this state of will and the right attitude must be taken with full heart also in the provinces and in all the organizations that the new provinces will form in 2019. The decision-makers and officials will have to roll the sleeves together and do what is to be done so that this time the necessary reform for citizens and businesses is actually put to the finish line." Mr President! Unfortunately, these are not my words, but I fully agree with them. So said Matti Vialainen, Regional Director of South Savo in Savon Sanomat last Sunday.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u138	Mr President! It is true what has been said here that fragmentation of services cannot make it possible to have a single channel, which was the great purpose of the wars, so that we can make the present system work and the paths are from one treatment to another. What worries me most is for the small citizens who do not have the freedom of choice, but the choice is for their parents. Especially in troubled families, this freedom of choice may lead to the situation that even in the same family day care in urban areas there are private service providers operating in connection with a different social centre. How to make it possible for this good possible, such as the Imatra model, to get settled in such a way that families are supported, to care for people who are in need of social services in society
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u139	Mr President! This freedom of choice does put the customer at the heart of the matter. People don't want any government to choose, they want fast and good services. I think it is absolutely right that those service providers who produce high-quality and fast services also receive the money with the customer, because throughout history, those companies that have been fast have always been successful. But, Minister Rehula, I would like to ask about these information systems, which are now a prerequisite for the reform as a whole: who will be responsible for keeping the timetable for the construction of this information system and who will be responsible for not doing so, as is very often the case for projects to be late and very expensive? And is it certain that there will be no information system charges for small businesses that will effectively prevent them from entering the market?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u140	Mr President! Here the continental plates of Wellbeing Finland are moving, and such a major change should have been based on the best possible information, but extensive criticism by experts has been passed. It's been ignored. Only cosmetic changes have been made. Like experts, we wonder how integration will take place, for example, when a large number of new producers come, how information systems can be made to work, how the original goal was not to bounce the customer from one door to another. President! I am also surprised by this freedom of choice from the point of view that the maximum number of customers is recorded in the law for the company, i.e. that a queue is formed at the company's door after the customer's size is full. You talk a lot about the market and freedom of choice, but it looks like the companies are choosing their customers and then they close the door. After all, this is a planned economy and not the freedom of choice for the customer, at least, from where we had to leave. Yes, now, Mr President, we should take this motion once again to the experts and make the corrections which both the opposition and the opposition have to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u141	Mr. Speaker! I am disturbed in this debate by the fact that the opposition repeatedly gives such an impression, as if the experts had not been listened to or the experts were unanimously opposed. The government has been listening for months, we have been sitting in committees for weeks, we will be listening, and many comments from experts have been taken into account. But I think it's a false myth that the experts would be very much against it. Most have said that the reform now needs to be carried out, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u142	Irade the Talman! No, I'm not going to sit on my ass. There is an operator who manages preventive work and who is responsible for basic health care at its cost. The same operator orders special health care according to its needs and costs. It sounds like such a good model that it should be invented if it did not already exist, even if the size of the municipalities poses challenges to this model. There is now a model in which municipalities are responsible for preventive work but not for the consequences of poorly managed work. The county pays social welfare centres basic health care in a way that, according to expert judgements, cannot be incentivised to avoid the cost of special health care. This is what Pihlajalinna said, for example. The county implements and pays the costs of special health care, as well as the costs of the customers that the social welfare centres find difficult and pass on to the county, that is to say, within the limits allowed by the state. How, Minister, do you see that this latter model, which is now being presented, leads to better treatment chains,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u143	Mr President! I will continue with this cost risk and take an example from the dental care sector, which has been raised by the Social Change Director of Uusimaa. If the fees for private dental care, the current allowances, are reduced to the level they are currently on the municipal side, there will be a funding deficit of EUR 400 million in the system. Where will this funding come from, Minister Rehula? How is this covered?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u146	The following replies to this debate: Mr Niinistö, Mr Lindtman and Mr Zyskowicz, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u147	Mr President! I'll continue with these costs. In this system, the State and through state funding the provinces take responsibility for these costs. They pay for the services provided by the social welfare centres, and there are different principles in the pricing system to ensure that it is fair. But actually there is a huge risk — and that example. We have these social centres to which these commercial private operators go. They are likely to select centers in large cities, and by marketing and marketing their old occupational health care customers they attract customers who are easy-to-maintained, easily accessible, and the government has a spike open.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u151	Mr President! Sometimes it seems that the opposition has been reading a document other than a government proposal. An example is the claim that inequality would increase. The opposite is true. Those who do not have a choice today will also be given freedom of choice. [ Hustles from the left] Well, then this capitulation fee. Congressman Niinistö, it may be that green decision-makers are so foolish, but others are not that they pay to treat a healthy person as they care for a sick person.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u152	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u161	And Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u162	Mr President! In many speeches, these information systems have come up, and that is the right question. If the information systems do not play, then this reform cannot be implemented, and we all know that there is a tough and tight schedule here. First of all, I would like to say that we are about to have a major investment programme on this issue, which was decided last week in the mid-term debate. And then the question was: how will the private sector producers also get involved in this? They will be involved in this, inter alia, through the Stock Scheme, which means that the Stock Scheme must also be included — it will not remain a separate island, but must be included. As far as the level of the investment programme is concerned, the mid-term review decided on a total investment of EUR 900 million in the spending limits reserve between 18 and 21 and, in addition, decided to capitalise EUR 90 million in the development company Sote-ict, the purpose of which is precisely to develop this customer information system, and this capitalisation of EUR 90 million will enable an investment of up to EUR 500 million. But then I say that no one at this stage is able to say exactly how much this costs, but this is what has now been found with the best expertise in the ministries, with more than one ministry. And here we have to move quickly, everyone knows that. I would also like to ask Mrs Feldt-Ranta, when you referred to this reform as a 'test' and you said that this is a great leap into the unknown, nowhere in the world has this been done, and I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if we believe in Finland that Finland could be a pioneer in something. And there is also the question of whether we believe that Finnish public health care — and social welfare — can also be of such good quality that it can also cope with the private sector. Last week I was at an event where a familiar person, Peter Vesterbacka, asked me why Finland is at the top of the list, when the Commission measures our digital maturity, we are number two, there after Denmark, in education, in equality, we are at the top of the statistics, but we cannot achieve more. Let us try this, if we could be a pioneer in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u163	Mr President! The objectives of this freedom of choice are good in many ways and, of course, it is now important to assess the extent to which this proposal meets these objectives. When this assessment is carried out, it is also very good to note that the province itself now has a really large power of preparation and implementation to build the solutions it wants, including in terms of compensation. And of course these pilot areas are also important, of which: Kainuu wants to be definitely one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u166	Mr President! Indeed, when we are talking about this freedom of choice, this seems a bit like this model of freedom of choice has been made on the terms of the market, not on the terms of the people. You promised, Mr Rehula, that everyone would have a choice. This is a modified truth, isn't it? This bill says on page 116 — if you find it there, you will find it — that companies can record how much they take there, the maximum amount they take in. This is not an option for health centres. But tell it that if a person wants to go to a health firm and get treatment there and he does not fit in, because he is not free to choose the place where he is being treated, which he then chooses. Was this supposed to tell the companies who they're taking over and who they're not taking over?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u167	Mr President! Freedom of choice does not happen if you cannot choose a public health centre instead of an international group. Can you swear that anyone who wishes to choose a public operator will be able to choose from 1 January 2019? A simple question for Minister Rehula. But there's been a lot of praise here for Section 57 of the bill, which is supposed to prevent any tax evasion. The SDP disagrees, Finnwatch disagrees and international groups, you will see, disagree. The article is better than the original, namely that there was virtually no control of tax evasion in the draft law. We made a number of corrections in March, and I am pleased and pleased that some of them have been taken into account, such as the group's country-specific data obligation. It may be that it came not at our request, but after Attendo’s leader, Pertti Karjalainen, said that they felt that the SDP’s demands were reasonable and appropriate to them. Thus, country-by-country reporting finally came into the Tax Procedures Act with the EU directive. It requires the company to provide seven information, four of the government's proposals are missing. We demand earlier and demand now that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u168	Madam President! This freedom of choice was quite a social experiment in East Germany and West Germany. Both had a major automotive industry. In East Germany, Wartburgs and Zwickaut and the Trabants did not sell very well, although ten years had to wait for them there. In West Germany, the car industry was successful and remains the backbone of West Germany, the current Federal Republic of Germany. I wonder which other sector should remove freedom of choice when experience is so bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u171	Mr President! There is, of course, also reason to talk about the danger of tax avoidance. Finnwatch, a company's global impact study association, published a text yesterday in its blog in which it criticised the government's proposal in relation to the risk of aggressive tax planning. Finnwatch says that the information required by the bill for companies is not sufficient. According to them, the right overall picture consists of 13 broad and vital data, but almost half of the reporting requirements are missing in the bill. We therefore need extensive information on the amount of taxes that companies pay and where they pay. Ministers, are you going to increase the transparency of reporting to prevent tax evasion?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u172	Mr President! What bothers me is that a lot of speeches are being made here about freedom of choice, which is indeed a complex and large entity, as is the case with this whole reform, which is a misconception of this whole entity. Representative Tuppurainen, customers cannot be chosen by any service provider. [Department : Well, certainly not!] Secondly, I am concerned about Mr Nylander's speech, in which he said that this whole model of regional reform is a disgrace to democracy. Is it not the case that, in the current hospital district model and in the various clutters of joint municipal boards, there is a democratic deficit compared to a model based on elected regional councillors? And yes, Mr Lindtman, these service providers can all have several offices where they can apply for services if there is no reception time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u173	Madam President! This debate certainly shows that there are major, significant gaps and questions open to this freedom of choice model. Once again, as a message to the government and the government parties: We are in favour of social reform and we are prepared to create these 18 regions, to have elected councils but to leave this section of freedom of choice to be developed later on from the point of view that it genuinely serves people's freedom of choice and that care is improved, effective and able to have a system that is publicly manageable. We do not object to freedom of choice, but through this calmly, controlledly, we get an entity in which we do not jump a sack away from the dark and hope that the bogeyman will not take us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u174	Mr President! Although I am not an expert in social services, I ask here, as I did myself, whether I have been able to get to a doctor terribly quickly and whether the waiting times are long, when people all over Finland say that it is so difficult to get to a doctor today. Now that we have this new model that should be taken, there must be a lot of such uncertainties here, how this works, and we have been able to choose a health centre today, so what is this now, to try to see whether we are a private sector or a third sector, or whether we are using the public sector? That is what this is all about. When I represent that sparsely populated area, it has also been stipulated that the services will remain there, because it is known that even today those services in small municipalities are not the same as in Helsinki. Then some responsibility has been given to these service providers, too, because they always have to give this information, tax information, wages, profits, losses and so on every year, directors' salaries, so that this is not just a wild west.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u175	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that Minister Ruhula did not answer this specific question about dental care and what will be done when the costs increase. I believe that this is the question that Finnish citizens, and especially Finns with low incomes, would like to receive an answer to. With regard to Mr Zyskowicz's comments on this capitulation allowance, I would like to point out that this factor in the weighting of morbidity within the capitulation allowance was only added here but did not change the structural risk of these private social services centres transferring patients and costs to the provincial business community. This is precisely the risk of partial optimization, for which economists warn, who say it would be worthwhile to create a model in which the same body is responsible for the whole service chain and for all costs. You can't get it. This too will probably increase costs in this new system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u176	Madam President! First, when there is a suspicion that this will be effective in improving quality, for example, the Greens have suspected, then it would be worth noting that I am not believed, for example, to believe my own expert Sanna Vesikana, who has been chosen as a green deputy mayor in this particular area of responsibility. He says this, quote Helsingin Sanomat 26.4.: "The most important thing is now to start investing in our services" – that is, in the city's public services – "so that they are all right. If freedom of choice comes, I want Helsinki to have such good services that they can compete equally with companies." Is there a need for better proof that at least those involved in these matters believe that competition will lead to better quality? As far as Mr Andersson's speech is concerned, this law also allows the province to decide on a compensation model in which the whole chain, including that special care, is included in the price of the service provider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u177	Mr President! I would like to reiterate that the structural risk inherent in this model from the point of view of costs is that the various parts of the service chain are in charge here as a whole, and this change now proposed to this capitulation compensation does not remedy these problems. It also does not eliminate the risk of cream peeling as regards occupational health care customers, as it is not one of the criteria to be taken into account in this capitulation allowance. In other words, large service providers who already have patients in their registers through occupational health care will receive compensation for these same persons when they are listed as customers of the same companies through direct choice. It is very profitable financially for these companies and one way in which they are able to do this patient selection in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u178	Mr President! We are dealing with a very difficult issue when we talk about this capitation compensation for service providers. I personally believe, and I am happy to admit, that mistakes are bound to happen over time in the provinces and they will be corrected. After all, the province itself can decide on repairs, it does not require regulation or law. But, Mr Andersson, when you read and read this Article 63, where there is this capitulation allowance, you also mention the need for personal service. And it is quite clear that in the case of a person who is in occupational health care, the need for service is, in principle, much lower than, for example, a long-term unemployed, long-term sick person. It is up to the governors to set these capitulation fees so that such cream peeling as you fear will not happen, that is, treating a sick person will be better compensated and covered than listing a healthy person.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u179	Mr President! This reform is full of risks, and the government itself, thankfully, also admits it in this government proposal. It is therefore worrying that not enough experts have been listened to, some small repairs have been made, but not enough. From the perspective of equality, one and two and three ministers here say that this will improve equality. In what way, ministers, for example, will equality be improved for the Swedish-speaking mentally disabled, when the possibility of accessing disability services through Kårkulla is now lost and no solution has yet been found? I would also like you, ministers, to see from the very everyday perspective of the patient and the person what this reform will do. No one should be missed, no one should be missed as a faller — and it is not worth laughing in that ministerial stand, this is serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u180	Mr President! Most of us understand how the market economy works, and it would be very naive not to think about it now that the government has introduced a model in which only in company form can in future provide social and health services in this country. Let us see what happened in Sweden when freedom of choice was opened, and note.: Sweden does not have this compulsory incorporation. Between 2010 and 2011, 190 privately owned but publicly funded health centres were established in Sweden. Where were these located? 88 % — 88 % — were located in an area where the service level was already good or very good. Zero health centres were created in an area where the need for services was already poor or very poor — that is, where they should have been established. Most were born in three large cities, not in the provinces. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just how the market economy works, and it is up to us as legislators to make sure that we make a balanced model that also takes care of the interests of all other Finns. Minister Vehviläinen — who has left here — if so,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u181	Madam President! Regional centres and other larger cities will be closer to ten strong companies providing social services. They are already there and will strengthen their services. They acquire their customers from the county centre and the surrounding municipalities. Has the government assessed the conditions for the success of a regional business, given that the public sector has almost 6 per cent higher labour costs, a more demanding customer base due to the use of freedom of choice and responsibility for the larger building mass in the province? Has the government carried out an impact assessment as to whether a competing public body in the county centre will have to reduce its network of services due to the above-mentioned higher cost pressures? And if so, how can services be secured in peripheral regions and other sparsely populated areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u182	Mr President! As this debate shows, the government's freedom of choice has a lot of serious risks to our public health care, and you should take these expert statements seriously and truthfully and think about Finnish customers, service users. For example, Mr Henriksson spoke very well about people with disabilities in his own speech. Mr President! I want to continue with the clinic services because Finland has the healthiest babies and children in the world and we have a wonderful public maternity clinic system that takes care of the well-being of mothers and children and babies. But now, in this proposal for a law on freedom of choice, you are also giving the provinces the opportunity to combine these advisory services and bring them into the sphere of freedom of choice. And even if Prime Minister Sipilä hoped that this would not be done, which is my own heartfelt wish too, I am very concerned that Mr Aronkytö, Director of Social Change in Uusimaa, has publicly stated that he thinks it would be good for these advisory services to be:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u183	Mr President! The most problematic, absolutely problematic part of this reform is the automatic service cutter. Only 9% of experts believe that the budget will hold, and if the budget does not, then services will be weakened. In practice, this means a deterioration in the quality of services. At the moment, if I want new dentures, I will have to wait in line for a long time and pay excessively much for them, but not impossible. In the future, I will be able to choose for myself which health centre, which dental treatment I will quickly get a negative decision that I will not get those dentures at all, because that is something that, in the absence of money, has been removed from our service promise. This is in the government's own papers — their own papers. It's not some boogeyman we invented in the opposition. And that is why I am so concerned about this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u184	Mr President! In this debate, the issues and problems that are now in the present system and the risks associated with this reform have been pretty sweetly mixed up. For example, when this integration is highlighted here and the way in which better treatment chains can be achieved, the excellent improvement in the current state — the state of the patients who are being bowled — is that there is a province in this new system. The county is responsible for organising
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u187	Finally, representatives Heikkinen, Kiljunen and Andersson, and then the Minister has the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u188	Madam President! For the opposition: at least the Finnish budget does not like it if nothing is done. Now we are doing and saving our economy for the coming decades. Second. The Swedish model cannot be compared to Finland, because many things are very different there. In particular, I would like to take a position on this matter and to make it clear to those people who are still looking at this broadcast that in our Finnish social welfare model, the proposal states that if it is difficult to obtain social and health services in a region, the province, the public sector must ensure that the services are organised there. We are told that the public body will ensure that people get to the doctor and treatment in all situations and in all parts of Finland. Our model is different from that of Sweden, we are better off and we are looking forward to doing this together. It's all about will and attitude now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u189	Madam President! It is true that the public sector is responsible for all those service productions, when the private does not want it and it does not make sense on market terms. It's what the public produces. But, Minister Rehula, we really do appreciate public service production and we also want to defend it. However, freedom of choice does not require compulsory companyisation, as the government is now proposing. You are well aware of the Exote model, where the province produces all social and health services. There, too, integration takes place in an exemplary manner at national level. Eksote also implements strong cooperation with existing municipalities in early childhood education... Eksote also collaborates with more than 600 different service providers and produces service vouchers and personal budgeting in Finland. So now I would like to ask Minister Ruhula: why do you insist on being forced to join, when we have good examples to develop the service and increase freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u190	Mr President! I will continue with this capitulation fee for Mr Zyskowicz. If you consider a situation in which a private social welfare centre receives EUR 5 per year for a patient who does not need any treatment, you are now suggesting that by paying EUR 8 for a patient who needs a lot of treatment, this will be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u193	Mr Zyskowicz will receive a reply a little later, I am sure. But now, Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u194	Madam President! A Swedish colleague is very interested in the way in which we are implementing this integration of social welfare and health care, because they have the same problems that we are trying to solve here, in a situation where social welfare is the responsibility of the municipality and health care of landowners. Let me first respond to Mr Löfström about the problem you described. First of all, this freedom of choice law refers to the jurisdiction of the kingdom. This is already the case as regards the self-government law of Åland. In other words, no provision can be made for the border between Åland and the Kingdom at this point. If there is a place for further clarification here, then that is why we have a committee debate on both this and other matters. But the law means the jurisdiction of the kingdom. Second thing, Kårku. The point is that the services of those who are in Kårkulla’s services will be carried out as needed. That's number one. For the first time, I have told the operators of the regions in which Kårku is active a year and a half ago that the link with the regional preparation is the one where it can continue. The key here is the people who need services, and secondly, even if the policies change, the knowledge Kårku has is not lost and should not be destroyed. Mr President! I mean, it's kind of hard to have this conversation. Of course, there are slips to everyone here, but a claim was made just now that businesses are competing with each other and it was suggested that businesses will compete with private service providers. I cannot find such a provision, nor of the legislation that is before Parliament, nor of the legislation that is now being passed here. It may have been a slip from the representative in question. There's been an appeal for expertise. I do not know a group of experts in this country who are completely united in some model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u197	The debate will continue, and all the responses that have been asked for will be granted, and there will be more to ask for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u198	Madam President! Thank you for the floor. The representative, Mr Yanar, was concerned that although the aim here is to ensure that companies which provide these services with taxpayers' money in Finland could not transfer their profits to tax havens, paragraph 57. This was not the case with all of Congressman Yanar, let's make that section better here in Parliament. Everyone has the same purpose, is it not true — that we will know, the whole Finnish people will know if a company wants to budge so that it makes a good profit here with the Finnish public money but also transfers profits to tax havens. Let's improve that section. Mr Andersson, you suggested that such a private service provider could price it at any price. I agree that this needs to be regulated several times in the province, but it cannot be priced in any way. If the public pays 100 euros, then who goes to pay 150 euros to a private person, no one. As long as the private produces cheaper or at the same time as the public, that is a good thing for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u199	Mr President! Yes, let us make this law better with regard to that tax evasion so that it is not possible. It is great that the government parties are prepared to do so; we are definitely involved in it. I would like to raise one issue to this debate, which has not been much discussed today, and that is the role of the staff. What will happen to the staff if we think that every year people are allowed to change the social centre of which they are their customers? In this case, situations may arise where the number of staff of the social welfare centre must then be adjusted according to the number of customers they have. Employees become a bit like new-time nomads that they have to move from one employer to another according to where the customers are. How will this be ensured that employees' rights remain good and that there will not be such a new kind of migrant workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u200	Mr President! I'm going back to the capitulation fee. What we know about international examples of similar freedom of choice systems is that service provision tends to focus. The risk is that it will concentrate on large growth centres compared to sparsely populated areas — this risk is well known also in the government's proposal, because it is highlighted as a threat — but also that the services will be concentrated within growth centres in areas where there are relatively well-performing, educated and well-being people, as Mrs Feldt-Ranta has well pointed out Sweden's experiences. Your only tool and means now to steer this system and to intervene in this kind of development is the capitulation compensation. Of course, private service providers will be in a strong position when the county has no other way of managing services than by increasing public money, increasing the proportion of capitation compensation that is paid to individuals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u201	Madam President! In my first speech, I have already raised the lack of impact assessments. As far as maternity clinics are concerned, this lack of child assessments must be noted in particular, because if the maternity clinics are privatised, child welfare and maternity clinics will not meet. In families with problems, parents can change maternity clinics every year, leaving the family unattended for long periods of follow-up. Fortunately, this problem affects only a small proportion of Finnish families with children, but it is too much for one child. It is not in the best interests of the child and it is regrettable that this assessment of the effects on children has not been clarified here. The Constitution provides for a fundamental right for public authorities to ensure adequate social and health services for everyone and to promote the health of the population. Can a public authority be exercised by a private company? While there is still a risk that tax money will be transferred abroad, how will it be financed by the public?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u202	Värderade Talman! There has been talk of broad shoulders in the past, whether it is half a million or a million. Well, now in this model, I think those broad shoulders are the one million plus minus 930,000, which is a fairly large dispersion. There are very small provinces and very large provinces, and everyone will be fitted with the same structure, the same shirt. This, of course, also has to do with this freedom of choice and with the extent to which it is real in the various provinces. Even according to the draft law, additional services are unlikely to be created in sparsely populated areas and therefore the reform will increase inequality and weaken services. 83 per cent of the municipalities agree with the feedback received by the government. How do you see this, do you believe that freedom of choice is a reality even in Central Ostrobothnia, where there are 65,000 inhabitants, or in Kainuu, 70,000, in the same way as here in Uusimaa, where there are 1.6 million? How is this freedom of choice that we see here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u203	Madam President! Two comments on the debate. First of all, from the clinics: I am surprised that it came back to the debate. The last time there was very broad support for the idea that maternity clinics should be in the hands of the province and as part and core of child and family centres. Aronkytö, the liquidator, does not solve the matter. It's the county council. In general, this is a matter of provincial self-government, where the situation is best known, and many of the concerns expressed here are precisely those that the province itself can decide on. Secondly, from this Finnish and Swedish model, we must remember that there are no two countries with a similar model. Some are a little closer than others, but each country’s system reflects its own country’s history, culture, economy and so forth. We are building a Finnish model here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u204	Madam President! The current municipal law assumes that the municipality is responsible for providing the well-being of residents and, based on this, some municipalities in Finland, perhaps several municipalities, have made such a movement that they have concluded agreements with private health service providers that are very long and that they cannot be easily removed. There are sanctions. For example, an agreement has been concluded in the Forssa region, which would cost EUR 30 million if made redundant. How now will these kind of players be competitive in this future, as this social welfare reform goes forward? At this stage, municipalities have used that free choice for themselves and decided that they will protect the health care of their own residents in this way. Has there been a readiness for this in the province change that the provinces are going to redeem them, or will these agreements remain the same there on the spot?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u205	Mr President! Mr Feldt-Banna's speech could be added that, in a similar reform in Sweden, access to a doctor has indeed improved, but especially for those who need little help there. It was also noted that the focus on increasing visits is on quality and content, as well as on patients who are very ill. In Sweden, these new health centres focus on densely populated areas and areas of well-being where the need for care is low and, at the same time, the level of equality in the use of services was reduced. It is now quite a concern that the same thing is happening to us here in Finland. There is also the concern about the increase in costs. Will health service fees rise or will the range of services be reduced? At its worst, this could lead to private health insurance becoming more common when it is no longer possible to rely on adequate services from the social centre of its choice. At the same time, those differences in well-being and health can increase. Not everyone can afford to take out those insurances. Do you, Minister, consider it possible, as a result of your reform, that health service charges will rise or that we will move towards an insurance-based system?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u206	Mr President! In my opinion, this page 118 had a pretty good point. It says here that one of the aims of the law is to promote the market by creating new innovative social and health businesses. On the basis of this action, significant new service and technology exports may emerge in the future. Could you open these possibilities a little further, how do you see this, and has this huge package also been analysed in relation to the existing export industry? Sote is part of the surrounding society and no loose piece, so that a little bit of this export perspective if you could open up, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u207	Madam President! Last summer I had the opportunity to have a social dialogue between two or three transnational companies, as it were, as an invited listener. And I was surprised when it became quite clear during the debate that it was quite clear that it was a matter of seeking financial profit, as the company’s objective is, and that the limited companies could have no other objective than to make profits for the owners. Now that this competition for social services is being opened up — civilised estimates are moving at 40 to 60 %, but the extent to which these private companies are taking over the market in the first few years and gradually being able to increase their share — the question arose: After that, the public sector in rural areas will have to cut back when there is no money. Private people have taken up the market, and that means that the public side is shrinking, and I bet that is the case in rural communities, as is justified. When public competition is opened up, will the European Union's competition rules prevent this competition from being restricted? Let's let the bottle spirit go and then we can't catch the bottle?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u208	Madam President! To the previous speaker: exactly what is happening here is to release the bottle spirit. Yes, the criticism of experts is still the issue that has been ignored in this reform. The Evaluation Council took a position on a number of points. The evaluation council intervened in carrying out an impact assessment of the whole of this whole package on this more than a thousand pages of this actual social and regional reform and then on this package of freedom of choice laws: this package has not been considered. It will now remain with us in the Parliament, in the committees, to go through. I think it is a weak preparation that has not been made. The Evaluation Council also estimates that this will increase costs, break down integration and replace this public governance with market guidance. And here we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u212	Mr President! In my view, some attempt is being made here to hide behind these accusations of 'complex and problematic freedom of choice', the fact that, until now, I understand, all parties have been committed to the painful fact that, at this rate in Finnish social and health care, we are running out of money in relation to the fact that we have promised that the ageing population will be treated with honour and that we will stick to the equality of people in the face of services. That this, which is referred to as a cut of 3 billion, is a fact which does not mean a direct cut, but a reduction in costs. My firm belief is that this potential economic and necessary savings will take place in the ways of doing things, there in the content of services, in fluent care chains and in the new division of labour. And with regard to the genuine exercise of freedom of choice within and between regions, it is completely forgotten that freedom of choice is not only the social centre in this law, but also the possibility of a personal budget in which small businesses are certainly also strong. It is also freedom of choice for a personal assistant, for example. Or is this whole customer voucher model that's actually been tried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u213	Mr President! The government is trying to convince us that the citizen will be able to choose between a public operator, a private operator or a third-sector operator in the future, but the experts have shown concern about the fact that, when these social centres are such that they must be able to provide services in a fairly broad spectrum, what will happen to these small businesses or those in the third sector? It is very likely that they will not be able to do this with a wide palette to organize. And it may well also be that these large international companies, which already have a head start in relation to, for example, regional companies, come along the way here — and it has already happened, in fact, that they are going to eat these small domestic operators. In other words, this bill is not particularly friendly to companies either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u214	Mr President! When comparing the model of government and opposition: For example, the Left Alliance's social model states that you are in favour of continuing the current competitive process. The current competitive environment means that big companies are doing well in it. What will happen to people, such as people with disabilities? Repeatedly competition for services in such a way that people cannot choose those services affects the services they have to use throughout their lives. What's the government's model? The Government’s model aims to find new ways, such as the banknote model and the personal budget, which compete with quality. In this, a person can influence the services he uses. These new freedom of choice instruments also enable small businesses and organisations to better come and provide services. The government talks about quality and people's ability to influence. You want to continue with the current cold, hard competition, in which only large companies are really doing well, where people are not asked,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u215	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister when you are certainly better informed than Mrs Myllykoski: how do we make it possible in this model now that, for all 18 of these regions, we get the best models that can be used in every province? And how, then, does this come about for these private health - care companies, whose part of the business is that they strive to make the most of it and make the most of it? So how can we be sure that we will also get that information from private companies and their business secrets, the business secrets of limited liability companies, how they will be able to manage patients more effectively and how it will be done as cost-effectively as possible, and how can this transparency be achieved between private companies and these municipal businesses or companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u217	There are now 13. In the case of this debate, we shall proceed until 5.30 p.m. for this period at the latest. In other words, there will still be room for new speeches on the list. Then let us at least take that list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u218	Madam President! At the beginning of this year, ministers commented on the desire to shift the focus towards preventive primary health care. One important role in the direction of pre-emptive primary health care is genuinely the information systems that we now want to renew in a certain way. After all, it would be very important to know how to deal with customers who might be coming up with a more serious disease in order to pre-analyse who might be in the risk group. So I ask the worthy ministers: what kind of genuine investment is now going to be made in these information systems in such a way that it becomes effective, because it is easy to make large investments in the wrong-style information systems?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u219	Mr President! Let's talk about money for a second. Future Minister Annika Saarikko said here that she has a firm belief that the rise in costs will be halted. This is not a matter of faith. It is good to see what has happened elsewhere and what is happening with us. In Sweden, freedom of choice resulted in an average cost increase of 20%. Twenty percent. What happened in Norway when Norway took over the cost of special medical care? The cost went up even more, by nearly 30 per cent. What's going on with us on 1 January 2019? Then you start running from the state cash register of the provinces, if people list, for these producers. For example, if one-quarter of the population is listed to private producers, that means EUR 700 million, and at the same time we have a public community under whose name you all swear here. It's not like that cost is going to go away at the same time. In addition to this, these massive IC costs come. And none of this is budgeted. The government hasn't budgeted anything. None of this can be found within the government framework. Let's be honest. Let's talk about money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u220	Mr President! Of course, it is relevant to compare Sweden with the fact that there is a similar basis, as it were, for a regional organisation, for the wider shoulders that have now been sought here for a decade in one way or another. It is also relevant to compare that yes, Sweden has freedom of choice, but its starting points are different in many respects. I think it's quick to identify two key differences. The second is that Sweden has not sought to achieve social integration, to which we load a great deal of expectations, from bringing its client and patient to the centre, and hence also from cost savings and more fluent treatment chains. And, more importantly, freedom of choice in Sweden was not even created by the same inevitable euro-denominated need in which our welfare state's borders require us to build a model whose cost savings will be realised over a long period of time. You talk about Swedish money, but we also talk about money in relation to the reality of Finland. Here, the cost curve is unimaginably increasing on this basis and with this very complex administrative structure. And yes, the private sector — admit it, Mr Feldt-Ranta — is doing some things more efficiently than the public, and there is also something to learn from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u221	Mr President! It is a pity, of course, that the future minister wanted to take his whole speech in order to dissat my speech rather than tell us what the government intends to finance all of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u224	Madam President! When reference was made to what the private sector brings to the public sector, I will take up the example of Mänttä-Vilppula, Mänttävuori Health Ltd, where there is 51 per cent in Pihlajalinna and 49 per cent in our city. So it has reached the cost level of 3 million, it was possible to apply for a lower cost level immediately during the first year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u229	Mr President! Many speakers have been on the right track here. This is much to be hoped for -thinking now in the government's proposal. Let us hope that there will be savings, and let us hope that equality will grow and so on. In fact, the big picture is beginning to emerge in such a way that we are about to have 18 provinces, to which twelve are becoming an extensive emergency service, six are not. We are about to have a system that will also increase the choice of the poor in the large cities, but which is not the answer to the problem of equality that already exists today in those regions that are not doing so well and where there will not be these new centres of social protection in the future. Here's the problem. It would have been easier to solve. We should see what the biggest problem is today. The biggest problem is that not everyone gets to the doctor as soon as possible. Much simpler and much more effective answers to this would have been found. This new level of government would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u230	Mr President! When we discuss costs, freedom of choice seems to be emphasised here, but our healthcare costs have increased especially in special care. The key objective of the whole reform is to transform the focus of patient care into a basic health care focus. That cost saving is available precisely from this point of view, and therefore, in order for that reform to succeed, we need a strong basic health care system in which access to human services is secured. The freedom of choice legislation ensures this possibility in different parts of Finland without delay for basic health care services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u231	Mr President! Mr Saarikko was not present during the debate because there have been repeated requests from Minister Rehula about where the government will get the money for the gap in funding that this system will bring with it, while patients who are currently using private services will also have a significant reduction in the burden. We have not received any answers to these questions, neither from the Minister nor throughout this debate. As far as saving money is concerned at the basic level, attention has been paid here to the very right problem. In those areas of Finland where this cost development has been successfully addressed, it has been possible to do so through systems such as Kainuu Soto and Eksote, where the same body is responsible for both specialised and basic care, including its financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u236	Mr President! I do not think anyone can deny that, of course, such a huge reform involves different risks and, of course, it will not be perfect and this will be regulated at different levels many times over the years and decades. However, I would like to return to the basic point that, in any case, freedom of choice means improved access to basic health care, improved cost-effectiveness and also improved quality. What, then, about Mr Andersson’s view that a private service provider could tow it at its capitulation price constantly upwards, why would the province be at the mercy of these producers? If a company that owns a business produces it with 100 per year, how can a private service provider, no matter how greedy it is, be able to to tow it up at its own price? There's no way the province is at its mercy. It is at its mercy that it gets what it sets, those services to be provided, but if your company produces cheaply, what is the problem? Finally, if the private sector benefits, but also the taxpayer benefits
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u237	Madam President! If that happens, then we will be in a situation in Sweden, where the services of the suburbs are produced by the public sector and by a regional social welfare company, while private social welfare centre producers are relatively well-managed, healthy and educated in urban centres and growth centres. That's the risk. And if that range of services is concentrated, then you have no choice but to direct the supply of private service providers except this capitulation fee, that is, the extra money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u238	Mr President! The customer voucher and personal budget are very good elements through which the customer can make his own decisions and choices. Not much has been said about them. Many other important issues have been raised here and will, of course, continue in the committees. But with regard to this customer voucher and the content and size of the personal budget, I would like to ask because the extent of the euro amounts depends on how well they provide the necessary services and how freedom of choice can actually be achieved. So if the ministers could open a little more of these. Then I would actually like to pass on to one of our viewers, the listener's question. He said, "When I listened to Question Time, I became afraid. I am multidiseased: multiple sclerosis, sarcoidosis, hypermobility problem, asthma, allergies, joint problems etc. etc. What if the annual budget is met and there is still a need for care, will I not be treated?" This is how you put someone who's become afraid when you listen to our debut. Do you have anything to say to him?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u239	Mr President! I am sorry that the Minister has left because I have a question for him, but I hope you will be able to answer it. When talking about the maximum number of customers, the minister said that this, which is in the bill, applies to all the producers who provide services there. Does that mean that after the social welfare reform, the public sector will also give us a list or say that enough people have come here now, that we will no longer take new people here at all? If a private person first lists the people and says that we can't take more now, the public will do exactly the same, what happens to people who don't fit on the list,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u242	Madam President! Although I am not a minister, I dare to answer the public question of Mrs Tanus when she was concerned about this multi-sick fate that who takes responsibility when people have a lot of illnesses. I am sure that it has also come to light in the Chamber today from the Minister's mouth that the province's business community, that is to say the public body, takes care of people with many kinds of, difficult and long-term illnesses. The second thing that has now come up in the debate is these information systems, the ict billions, from which they will be taken and how these expenditures will be covered. This has already been provided for in the government negotiations; it is public information. Rather, I would be glad that now at last there is a common will to build a common base, that this information moves from every corner of Finland to every corner of Finland, that it is not up to that place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u243	Värderade Talman! It cannot be argued that this is administratively simpler than the current one. This is where walls are created, even inside the provinces. The Töölö Hospital’s statement states that, as a doctor in the past or in the current situation is on the payroll of one of the operators, in the future there will be four companies in Töölö Hospital on whose payroll he is on. It's not as simple as that in any way. But for this principle of compensation. It plays a major role in the replacement of social centres. Mänttä-Vilppula has a capitulation principle, but the operator has overall responsibility for special health care. That is the big problem with this model: there is no incentivism to try to reduce those costs. That is why I ask the Minister whether it is not worth trying this whole thing in a controlled whole, in a small province, even though Kainuu, which has a population of Greater Leppävaara, is there to try these different capitulation-based compensation models and, with their wisdom, apply them to the whole country. Let's not experiment now on the whole country scale, because it feels like these feedbacks now
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u244	Mr President! Firstly, there are actually experiments on freedom of choice. I would also like to admit it quite freely, and I believe that the government will also do so, that no one here has claimed that in a major social reform such as this, which is going to hit the heart of our society in many ways, the social and health services, both its administrative structure and its logic, we would be doing the perfect thing at once. I do not think it is the weakness of this reform or the weakness of the executive and executive government, but rather the strength to say out loud that this will become a whole which must inevitably correct itself. It will require changes. It has not been the case that the current system of social welfare and health care was a static lump that had not been done anything for decades. It is inevitable that when it is implemented, we will see different types of effects in different regions. This will be changed by the next government and the subsequent government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u247	Mr President! I believe that this good debate has shown that the marketisation of social services is a Pandora's box that should not be opened. The representative, Feldt-Ranta, told about the Swedish model, how the health centres of private operators, which were funded by the state, were created mainly in the largest cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u250	Madam President! There has been an interesting discussion here that it is predicted that services will automatically deteriorate. We should just remember what our starting point is. Many times a particular health centre has previously been called a guessing centre and an equivalent, and now they are the best of all when we try to develop and take these things forward. On the other hand, there is no confidence that Sitra, for example, already carried out studies on the different options currently available. At the same time, someone was as low as 20-30%, although satisfaction was better resolved. Now there will be even more of those options. It can also become good and new services for the countryside, like a social bus or digital service, a whole new kind of model if we were able to believe. We are now giving different actors the opportunity to do something new. I therefore ask the Minister how we really secure the affairs of small businesses. Obviously also in such a way that they can make some kind of cooperatives, in a certain way form a consortium in the sense that there will be a multidisciplinary centre for social services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u251	Värderade Talman! Om det raus ska fungera i practicekken och kostnadsökningen ska kunna stavjas, om man ska kunna lija på ett vettigt stätt så måste ju informationen förstås röra sig fritt. Och då är de bull informationhanderingssystemen naturligtvis i nykelställning, som bland you give ledamot Jaskari och många andra var inne på. Det skulle vara roligt att höra lite mera om den ox informationhanderingsstrategist. Har man funderat på artificiell intelligens?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u252	Mr President! Mr Raassina raised a very important point that, of course, we must try to ensure that treatment is timely, and this emphasis on basic health care is also a good and worthwhile objective, and it will certainly also have a cost at some point, if it succeeds. But that is not what you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have answered, ladies and gentlemen, to finance the launch of this reform. Experts have estimated that it will cost one billion—more billion in the start-up phase, in the first year. You have budgeted, Mr Heikkinen, EUR 7.7 million, or millions of billion or more. What are you going to do, Minister, to set up the provincial government, the interim government, the provincial councils, to do all these ect-investments, where all this reform will be built up, and how are you going to pay for these health and social expenditures of listed citizens, which you, in your own proposal, estimate to be around EUR 2.8 billion per year? We would like an answer to this. I very much fear that the economies of the provinces to be born will be in crisis at an early stage if the government does not resolve this issue with something.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u253	Mr President! I will return to this bill which is here in Parliament and I will look at these impact assessments. It says here: "The reformed Finnish freedom of choice model can encourage producers to implement the services of customers in a coherent way, accompanied, where appropriate, by preventive measures and early intervention. This model can improve the provision of services to disadvantaged socio-economic groups and create the conditions for reducing welfare and health inequalities." You might want to read that bill's impact assessment. It was very important that the government corrected this compensation for service providers, and with this new, modified compensation it is indeed possible to eliminate the wrong incentives, such as this cream peeling, which is a real problem that must be prevented and prevented in every way. This new compensation also has the opportunity to really encourage and treat different people according to their needs, preventively. But it is quite clear that, above all, this model and compensation must be closely monitored and then, on the low threshold, it must always be shaped when experience is gained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u254	Madam President! Here the government describes this as if we had no freedom of choice at the moment. That is not true. Rather, this proposal restricts the current freedom of choice as a result, [Right :We have not said that!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u255	Madam President! Mr Andersson and Mr Adlercreutz have continued the debate on this capitulation allowance, and that is certainly an important debate — although it is a detail, it is an important detail. First, Mr Adlercreutz: the province can also decide on compensation for a service provider who also includes this special medical care, that is, the whole chain. Then, to Mr Andersson, I would like to say: When it comes to location, it is the compensation decided upon by the province that is central. If, by placing in the suburbs, where there are many unemployed, pensioners, low-income families, families with children, you are able to do a very much better business than by placing in Eira and Töölö, the market economy will guide your position in that direction. But the impression that they could raise this price to the clouds themselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u258	At 5:30, we're approaching. Also representatives of Alanko-Kahiluoto, Puska, Andersson and then Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u259	Mr President! Indeed, it has been about 24 hours to study this huge package of laws, which has been somewhat amended, so it is in itself a little difficult to discuss these incentives in particular. But I am concerned, despite the fact that the Minister has publicly said that no bouncers are coming to the door of these private health companies. However, I think the question is: how does this system ensure that, on the one hand, these social centres do not overpower people if they are compensated for the difficulties they face, or, on the other hand, under-represented patients? That it would be very interesting to hear what incentives and safety measures have been built here, to ensure that inequalities do not increase, for example, by under-treatment of patients with multiple diseases and then over-treatment of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u260	Madam President! Mr Andersson said that this new governance structure would become complex. It is clear that this is not going to be quite simple either, but we must remember that a large number of administrative and joint municipal boards are now being replaced by the provincial administration. But what is essential for integration — and, in fact, it is amazing that this debate has not brought it up — is that one organiser decides to distribute the money according to the needs of the province, not with the current separate system that easily leads to partial optimization. Today's separate systems have taken the money on various grounds and, among other things, have led to this institutional focus that the representative referred to here. I believe that this is a matter of enormous importance for social and economic savings that the entire money pool should be decided on the basis of the needs of the province and not by various organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u261	Mr President! As has been said here in Mr Zyskowicz's speech, our fear is that there will be a situation in which private service providers will select their customers by placing their own service points in areas where easy-to-care patients live, where they will receive financial compensation. And you say that 'no, this risk will be eliminated by the fact that the market economy will manage as long as the compensation is large enough'. After all, we are talking about public money, taxpayers' money, and the only way you can prevent this situation is that we are paying even greater compensation from the taxpayer's bag to these private service providers so that they are also located in the suburbs where it is more expensive to treat demanding patients. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u265	Minister Ruhula, five minutes, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u266	Madam President! With a personal budget, you can choose the services of the regional business department. There is no provision in this law that would prevent it. Secondly, this compensation model is one element which has the ability to control its service production. The second point is that the law gives a certain framework, a framework for the way in which service providers are accepted, which criteria must be met. It is written that the province may require qualitative and accessibility factors, and so on. We are also in a situation where, since the consultation, we have added the so-called framework agreement model, if that market is not created, the province will see to it that the market, the various service providers in different parts of the province are created. When there's been a big, small conversation here: If there is something to be concerned about in this task, at the moment I am particularly concerned about two provinces whose provincial preparation is in such a position to see what happens on what day. Secondly, these provinces are, without name being mentioned, those in which this freedom of choice model would be best achieved in advance. But then one thing that I am prepared to make a bet on, in the big-small debate: Central Ostrobothnia will be among the three provinces in this country as a changer in social welfare and health care and as a model of freedom of choice when it comes to 2025. Why? It's agile, there's will, there's desire to do things better. There's a desire to show. Representative Strand asked about health technology and what opportunities. This is one aspect of this. I myself had the opportunity to be part of a business delegation in China, and they have a situation that they cannot afford, no money to build a health centre network. They're going straight to the digital world. And we are in a situation today where a little over 2 billion are export revenue from health technology. This is the most growing sector at the moment in percentages of our export income, and in this respect the balance sheet is EUR 1 billion positive for Finland. This is gonna be a big deal. And this way of doing what we are looking for with this social integration is one that will also be an export product. In what way do we build the multiprofessional collaboration, it will be a knowledge-how, the know-how that is being asked of us. Mr Myllykoski has asked about these good practices twice. In addition to making this structural and administrative and financial change, we are also working on preparatory work by region, both for the elderly and for families with children. And then we are in a situation where, regardless of the municipalities in the regions, the aim is to have these much spoken good practices — and this is where I, as a minister, have to say: really good practices — just as the Imatra child protection model is, it is intended to multiply, especially when the model is a win-win, both for the family, for the child and for society. Well, then the winnings for tax havens have been going on a number of times, and if I have anything to say about it now. Tell me who is most concerned about this, now that there are lists of different sizes — the government has made its own proposal, seven points concerning a large company — and tell the government what additional information comes from, for example, the fact that Övertötterström Ab, an operator providing elderly services, the staff structure, must be reported to the Finnish authority. Tell me what we do with the information that is intended to prevent and prevent aggressive tax planning and the aim is to maximise the use of Finnish tax euros in Finland. So when we talk about these lists and 'we demand and demand', for example, it would be nice to know what we are doing with the staff of Övertötterström Ab, the company that provides services for the elderly. With regard to the whole of this change, there are quite a few things in which you can make demands and objectives and then say that that and that is wrong. Social integration — social integration and integration — has been the long-term major objective of this change. If we want social integration and if we want integration, there will be a number of things that have been the subject of severe criticism in this Chamber: who is doing and who is doing what. But one essential point, and now that Mr Tolppanen is also in the Chamber, I will answer for the second time: service providers on the same line. It also applies to the announcement by a public service provider of how many people can fit on the list. It's five minutes. Sooner or later, we'll be back on this 24-hour side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u268	Minister Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u269	Madam President! Just a few words. There was talk of this capitulation and talk of money following the customer, and little criticism of occupational health care. After all, occupational health care is now being abandoned, it is not being touched, but of course it will be considered in the future how occupational health care will then be linked to this. But when people were wondering if they were paying twice, they really weren't paying. It is true that if you also use these services of the health centre, as you will certainly do, because most of the time it is this health and health promotion at work and you also need medical care, which is not necessarily in that health care package, then you go to the health care centre. But you are not paid that much because you already have that occupational health care, so the amount you take is less than for those who go without occupational health care services. But here too we must remember something about which we rarely know how to build up occupational health care fees, who pays. 85 % of the employer pays for occupational health care, and the 15 % that is there — farmers and certain small entrepreneurs — comes from the state. It is an employer who pays for occupational health care, not the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u289	Mr President, you exceeded the agreed time by 1 minute and 7 seconds. We've got rules to stick to. I didn't mean to interrupt. At this point, I'm interrupting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u290	Mr President! There has already been a long debate, which must have been useful, but a great deal has started to be repeated, so it is good that we have now moved on to the actual speeches. We really are dealing with the second legislative package of social welfare reform, which together with the previous one constitutes one whole, the largest administrative reform in Finland since the war. The main principles of the reform, which have been repeated here, have been the subject of considerable consensus for years, namely the provision of services in a wider area, both social and health services and services, both special and basic, and shifting the focus to basic services and strengthening prevention and health promotion. The reform has wasted many valuable years, and various political adventures have been shipwrecked, but the current model of organising services in an area the size of a province seems fortunately to be widely accepted. This legislative package now clarifies the organisation of services within the province. This involves a political decision made a year ago on the way to organise freedom of choice. As has been said in general, freedom of choice is a good thing and the involvement of private operators increases the required capacity for basic services. At the same time, it is clear to everyone that this approved model poses the challenges that this proposal has sought to take into account as much as possible, and this proposal has become more tense in the course of the preparations. The challenges are, as has been said, particularly with regard to the organisation of integration, and the model makes it increasingly necessary to develop information systems which are still quite incomplete. What is important is the compensation received by producers from the region, which has also been mentioned. The so-called capitulation principle is a good one, but the details of it have to be done in the provinces, so that the province can really manage the services well and also set incentivise producers in the prevention of diseases and problems and in the promotion of health. A similar challenge concerns state funding for regions. The launch of the reform by state funding is certainly justified, but there are a number of strong reasons for making rapid efforts to tax the regions themselves. This is the only way to achieve sufficient autonomy for the regions and to put pressure on effective and effective action. The independence of the provinces is also linked to the question of a balance between state control and autonomy of the provinces. The bill emphasises strong state governance, but at the same time it is a matter of regional self-government. It is clear that the STM should properly guide national development with strong THL monitoring and expert knowledge. At the same time, it is equally important for the provinces themselves to be able to decide sufficiently on their own action in the context of local circumstances, and this state direction is most natural in the annual negotiations between the state and the provinces in accordance with the draft law. This also raises the issue of cooperation between regions, in particular with regard to specialised services and cooperation with university hospitals. This cooperation is based on various agreements. It must be done according to needs and not necessarily compartmentalised in cooperation areas. An example is the obligation to cooperate with Vaasa and Seinäjoki in the case of on-call matters, even though they are in different co-operation areas. It is a good thing that no administrative units were made of cooperating erva areas during the preparation process, but that, where necessary, the provinces can cooperate in a way which is considered to be the best and which is also discussed within the framework of state guidance. I will return to the administrative structures brought about by the Freedom of Choice Act. Within this framework, the province must be able to secure important integration by means of its decisions, which the draft law does give the province a good opportunity to do. Similarly, these decisions should ensure adequate local services, and it is important that the customer voucher ensures that smaller organisers are able to participate in service provision. The organisation of dental care within the framework of the financial framework is a major challenge, as has been said here. The timetable for the reform concerning the incorporation of companies and the implementation of many of the implementation tasks of the reform has been discussed. It is important that sufficient preparatory resources can be secured and that the so-called pilots and their funding should be as straightforward as possible in supporting the implementation of reforms in the provinces. The implementation of the range of services provided by the social services centres of direct choice in the regions requires consideration, as well as what remains on the public side of the county's business and how many business services, such as spoken maternity and child health clinics, are organised. In my opinion, this term of business has failed and in a critical discussion of incorporation does not give the general public a clear idea that it is a matter of public service in the province. According to the textbook definition, a business establishment is an organisation for the organisation of business. Although all social welfare and health care must be organised economically, I cannot possibly accept that, for example, regional social work, hospitals or even health clinics should be primarily a business activity, but rather a service activity in the province. I know that there are legal explanations in the background, but they should be overcome in such a way that a better term could be introduced, such as a regional service agency or a regional service centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u293	Mr President! We Social Democrats are still prepared to work together to achieve the objectives of social welfare reform – we have been offering this hand of cooperation all the way. We are in favour of increasing customer choice in social and health care, but it is not an end in itself, but a tool for better health and well-being. Unfortunately, the government’s market-based model of freedom of choice has become an end in itself. It has been done under the conditions of large companies and markets. In practice, the government is in a conscious political decision to drive Finnish national decision-making power into market-based competition for our social and healthcare services within the scope of EU competition law. If this model in Parliament is now adopted, there will be no return to these markets. It is governed by EU law. Ultimately, a decision can be taken by the EU Court of Justice. Is this really what we want? The government model requires the compulsory use of public services at basic and, in part, also at a specific level. This is not appropriate for the original jointly agreed objectives of the social protection systems. Experts have broadly estimated that the government's proposal will increase costs, fragment the field of actors, reduce equality and increase governance unnecessarily. What happened here to the dismantling and red tape of the government when the new provinces were taken to an endless treaty ramba? Mr President! We are in favour of transferring the responsibility for organising social and health services to larger entities. We are committed to a social welfare solution with the aim of promoting well-being and health, reducing disparities, strengthening basic services and equal access to services. It is also essential to curb the increase in costs. The government's 3 billion target by the end of the next decade will be extremely challenging. Together with the current market-driven model of freedom of choice, which is already being discussed by the Parliament, this means that service chains are likely to break down, which makes it difficult to achieve good treatment packages and to reduce costs. When costs increase, the result will be either an increase in customer charges or a reduction in the range of services. There is a great risk that the differences in well-being and health between people will actually increase. Experts warn that the reform is taking place in such a hurry that there is a risk that the entire health care sector will end up in uncontrollable chaos at the beginning of 2019. There are too many changes coming at the same time. A similar model is not used anywhere else. The process proposed by the government does not help, as it is also cosmetic. The main problem is that public services must also be produced in companies in the future. Tax resources are not explicitly directed at the provision of human services, but are directed towards private profit seekers and, in the worst case scenario, to tax havens. Do I have to finance private profit with tax money at all? Mr President! I think we should proceed in a controlled manner. We must remember the original objectives and the essential steps to implement them. The purpose of the Board of Directors was first to create a strong regional organisation model, then to define a new funding model for social services and finally to increase customer choice. However, as a result of the government’s crisis in November 2015, these activities were combined in dark hours of the night to be carried out simultaneously. We are in favour of a social welfare reform and we are in favour of increasing people's freedom of choice, but instead of market guidance, we are relying on public governance, because these are services produced with tax resources. Mr Government, there was also a model in the preparation of civil servants which would gradually increase freedom of choice on the basis of the current system through experiments. Service voucher practices, compensation for freedom of choice and personal budgeting would be developed and the system of freedom of choice extended gradually, maintaining the current form of freedom of choice and improving its coverage for different services and producers. The advantage of this model would be to gradually change the criteria of the social and health services system based on public administration and through experiments towards the freedom of choice and multi-producer model, which would also give the regions and the service system time to adapt to change. This would allow legislation to be built on experience and reduce the risk of possible unforeseen effects which may be difficult to repair afterwards. I would ask again, Mr Government, why did you not accept such a model that could have led to a better future for 100-year-old Finland's social and health services? Such a model could have gained support and confidence from both citizens, experts and opposition. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health will now begin consultations on this freedom of choice law, along with the provincial package and the legislative package on social welfare, over a thousand pages. The work would be greatly facilitated if the government proposal included an overall assessment of the impact of this whole proposal by the Evaluation Council. It is not at our disposal now, and therefore this task will probably remain with Parliament. This is the result of this excessive urgency and of the fact that this is far too great a reform to do at one time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u294	Mr President! Social reform is essential. First of all, it is needed to reduce health and well-being inequalities, which have become huge. The difference between the life expectancy of a rich and poor man in Finland has increased much more than ten years, and this requires correction. Quite often we in Finland have been following the example of a neighbouring country, Sweden. However, as a result of a similar health reform in Sweden, equality in the use of services has deteriorated. Medical visits to those in need of little help have increased and those in need have decreased. It has been found that when you focus on increasing visits, quality and content suffer and so do very sick patients. Are we now in the process of a reform in which health inequalities continue to grow? The government's quick repairs in this respect are not very convincing. Secondly, social reform is needed to improve equal access to services. However, these 18 provinces, on whose shoulders the reform of social services is now being brought together, are of very different sizes. In these smallest provinces there will hardly be freedom of choice in the same way as in the large urban areas. Similarly, in larger provinces there is likely to be much freedom of choice in the centers of the province but hardly outside the centres. Equal access to services will hardly be improved by the government model, but will be as it was in Sweden, although the system is different there. There, as a result of a similar health reform, equality in the use of services was weakened. The new health centres focused on densely populated areas, areas where the need for care is low for well-managed residents. Thirdly, the aim is to curb cost growth by EUR 3 billion. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the implementation of the system of freedom of choice when the market for social services is opened up once and for all throughout the country. The scope of direct choice services, agreements with producers and compensation practices determine how significant cost savings will be and whether they will be at all. It also raises concerns as to whether all regions have sufficient knowledge to conclude these agreements. This can lead to unexpected cost increases. Effective integration between social and health services and between basic health care and special care is a prerequisite for achieving savings and good care. Now that the government’s model of basic health care is divided into countless parts, first with the choice of alternative social welfare centres and then with the provision of services with a voucher, how can this model between countless different actors ever function as a unified service chain? Add to this the partial splitting of special care with customer vouchers, so how on earth does this whole work in an integrated way? It also gives rise to concern that, at the same time, our well-functioning specialised medical care will be broken up into parts, while the remaining most demanding special medical care may become more expensive, once the part of the services that has been placed on the market will not be returned to the public. Mr President! The big threat is that the savings sought will only be achieved by increasing customer charges or redefining the service promise, i.e. by providing less publicly funded services than in the past and at a higher price. This, in turn, may lead to an increase in private health insurance and gradually to insurance-based social security. There is a risk of getting further and further away from a good and affordable Nordic solidarity-based social security model, and this is a very serious concern. At the same time, the government is refusing municipalities the right to provide services in full. All municipal social and health services are transferred from municipalities to regions that should create functional systems in less than two years. The government has given a little too little time, six months, when experts say two more years are needed. In the opinion of the SDP, organisation and production should not be separated, as it has been found to be inactive in many places. We too believe that wider shoulders are needed for the provision of social and health services, but would it not be good to save what is good and build on it and not break the whole system of social and health services? A region or region could well be responsible for organising social and health services in its territory. We also believe that they could mainly provide those services by using municipalities, the private sector and the third sector, at the discretion of the Commission. This would ensure integration and cooperation between other publicly produced services. Mr President! According to economist Holmström, it would have been good to try different social models in different regions. According to him, it is clear that the reform will have unexpected consequences and will have to be corrected several times. According to Nobellist Holmström, there is also a risk that the service provider will accept healthier patients who will receive financial compensation but the costs will be small. In certain cases, there may be over-treatment and in others there may be under-treatment. The model should therefore move on to more cost-based compensation for the service provider, which, fortunately, has been taken into account to some extent by the government, but probably not enough. I hope that the government will even listen to the Nobel Prize, even if we are not the ones who want to listen to us in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u295	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Ruhula. I respect the work you have done here, too, with regard to this law. I know this has taken hours and certainly months for us to be at this point. I would like to thank you again for being present and for providing answers through this long debate which has been taking place in the Chamber. I am sure that the objectives are something that unites us, but we disagree on these means and the end. Mr President! Nothing has changed substantially since the mid-term debate in this government proposal, and neither has the government taken any minor remarks from the expert consultation to the final draft either. The show involves a lot of risks. We Social Democrats are in favour of freedom of choice, we are in favour of provinces. However, we believe that the proposal has not taken sufficient account of the doubts expressed in the consultation and the suggestions for improvements to the proposal itself, its implementation or its timetable. In the opinion of our social democrats, the most important thing is to implement and fulfil the fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution: the public authorities must safeguard, in accordance with the law more precisely, adequate social and health services for everyone and promote the health of the population. I would like to ask: can a private company exercise public authority? The model now presented does not, in its present form, satisfy this fundamental right in the end. The presentation creates the model and the money is already in the forefront, but the real public power that is being implemented is just coming, that is, the provinces. In particular, the criticism of the SDP has focused on the power of the provinces, in fact the lack of power, because the provinces do not have the same self-government as the municipalities or tax law. Mr President! More importantly, the law now proposed does not provide citizens with a guarantee of care, information on the time to get to a nurse or a doctor, the time to be taken to the social worker. The proposal already distributes the money to private operators, and with this timetable it leaves the provinces without their own local discretion. How much services is needed? How much to outsource? What existing local opportunities can be exploited? All of this would be an essential consideration, and it is best known in every province. This proposal will create a healthcare market in Finland. Services are taken to private companies, forced-on companies. It is predictable that the government, with this proposal, will want to create a market for large international players, without the government actually guaranteeing the patient and the customer with this reform anything new. This proposal actually distributes the money to private operators on behalf of the provinces before any province has an organisation ready. A large-scale distribution of taxpayers' social security money to market players will be carried out. The distribution of money puts market players on the same line, but discriminates between consumers, i.e. patients and customers. Mr President! This presentation gives the patient no guarantee of access to treatment. Even the government no longer promises a quick medical visit to a doctor of the patient’s own choosing, as has been heard along the way. The presentation allows the social welfare centre to limit the number of people to receive treatment: i.e. the vip pass will leave the bypass open. In practice, that is what leads to cream peeling with taxpayers' money. The Sote Centre may limit the number of vacant places and lock them and indicate that new patients will no longer be admitted. That's when you do what you're afraid of. Socio-economically, the selection of patients or the targeting of marketing enables the patient material to be selected from the easiest and most payable end. This has come about because the government wants to implement the hood of the first phase of the reform with its eyes and allows the service providers of the presentations to become etabolized on the market, i.e. to distribute the money where the fastest chooses and fills the places. In this case, the most difficult, challenging and most demanding patients will remain easily on their own. The criticism is also the preparation of the proposal, and I do not mean that no decisions will be taken. At the level of the Constitution, proposals to be submitted to Parliament are laid down. There are also clear demands on what impact assessments must be made and presented in the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal. These presentations should include financial assessments, gender and gender impact assessments and child impact assessments. Again, they are incomplete, or there are none. And one of the impact assessments should of course be how the reform will break down the integration of Finnish health care and what is its price tag. Mr President! We Social Democrats believe that the regions should allow the law to be applied in peace and then provide the private sector with any necessary complements to the service, so that everyone really gets free access to the doctor of their choice. Now the government's proposal does not make this promise possible. The model locks the patient into the services of a service provider of its choice for a year. This, too, feels a little out of tune. There is no need to make a purchase decision in genuine freedom of choice even before the first experience, especially in the long term. Here, too, it's not agile. I would also like to raise a point which I wonder about. How, yesterday in this Chamber, does the budgetary plan, the budgetary framework, not provide funding for the expenditure side to implement the model? Should that not be an increase in expenditure, when it is known to cause an additional cost of at least EUR 100 million? Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to the positions of some very experienced and educated people who have now made the proposal public. Professor Heikki Hiilamo knocks out: big problems have not been solved. In its draft law, the government has tried to correct the problems of freedom of choice. According to Heikki Hiilamo, the new model is even more complex than before. Professor of Social Policy Heikki Hiilamo has told Economics that there have been mostly cosmetic incisions in the bill: small corrections have taken a stance on criticism, but major problems have not been solved. The changes actually make the system more complex. He considers the compensation model, consisting of several parts, to be complex and difficult to implement. The Government has added a point in its proposal that provinces can provide financial incentives for private individuals to provide services in sparsely populated areas, which can be regarded as a good addition after the consultation. Professors Jussi Huttunen and Martti Kekomäki, among others, have said that the Government's plan to introduce freedom of choice in the context of the regional reform in 2019 is unrealistic and should be abandoned. He also felt that freedom of choice should not be implemented until after the regional reform. And the biggest but not the smallest: In the draft law, the government did not yet begin to assess the financial implications of freedom of choice. However, it is in the process of a reform which it knows will improve services, improve the quality and availability of care, while at the same time saving EUR 3 billion. I believe the experts, and as the decision-maker I demand that those calculations should be held by Parliament before it is forced to take decisions on the matter on the basis of inadequately prepared documents. I am also concerned about what happens with the transition to the provincial administration when, according to estimates, several municipalities in South Karelia, for example, are missing a seat for any representative. Although, especially in the case of social services, the capacity of the basic municipalities to provide services requires a regional or wider population base, the transition from joint municipal authorities, such as Eksote, the provincial system, to the system of largely state control, means a narrowing of democracy and a substantial reduction in municipal influence. This is a major constitutional issue which, thanks to this freedom of choice, is worthy of a great deal of attention in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u296	Mr President! There are fundamental problems with the current freedom of choice model, which prevent the achievement of the agreed objectives of social welfare reform. In addition, the system is so messy that the process of change will be very painful. The original objective of the Sote reform was to improve basic health care for all Finns, reduce health inequalities and ensure the functioning of service chains. We are now creating a system in which, on the contrary, costs are increasing, service chains are fragmented and people are becoming unequal. Our social security system needs to be remodeled, but the threat is that the proposed freedom of choice will even reverse the current system. The government itself has recorded steps towards social reform in the programme. First we had to secure seamless care chains, then we had to simplify funding, and finally we had to diversify service production and increase freedom of choice. This path should continue to be taken together with all the parliamentary parties. In this way we could create a sustainable model. The marketization now presented is a leap into the unknown. It's a leap that it's impossible to back out once the market's opened. That is why freedom of choice should be made gradually, making use of the experiments launched by the government. Mr President! When we go to the market and not to public health, inequalities will increase and health inequalities will increase. Freedom of choice is no good if you don't have a choice. There will be social centres in large cities, alternatives will increase and queues may be shorter, but what happens outside centres and in small towns? There private social centres are not created and the responsibility for this is left to the province. Services are deteriorating and regional inequalities between people are increasing. This has already happened in Sweden. When I visited Tornio in the winter, the public was amazed at the claims made about how Sweden’s freedom of choice has accelerated access to treatment — they told me that although the queues in large cities may have been shortened, the reform made their services weaker and the services on the Finnish side play better. Mr President! The self-government of the provinces now proposed is self-government of expenditure. The income of the province cannot be controlled: they do not have the right to tax, they cannot take up debt and they cannot cover their cash deficit by increasing customer fees, as when customer fees are increased, central government funding is reduced accordingly. This model will not allow the government to reverse the 3 billion-dollar increase. This is a problem because the only way to curb cost growth is to cut down on services. The crisis in social security funding will then also be a crisis in social services. It will leave the low-income, pensioners and unemployed who will not be able to buy additional services at their own expense. But there is also good in the proposal: it is a personal budget, it can genuinely increase people's influence over their own services. Mr President! A heavy burden will be placed on the provinces. Ultimately, the province is responsible for steering the services, but there are still too few tools for this. Now the social partners collect different kinds of information in different ways. There are no uniform systems and there is no time to set them up before the wars enter into force. Practices are varied already on the public side, not to mention the private side. How in the world do we get the systems to talk to each other and how do we ensure that different bodies collect comparable data? If the information systems cannot be assembled, no one will be able to control the operation. You can't control information if you don't have it. We all still have a new memory of the chaos caused by the Kela transfer of income support. Last year a similar mess was created in the payment of agricultural subsidies. Then what happens when we reform the whole social security system at once? The Government's impact assessments state that information systems will not be ready until the mid-2020s. Information systems are not just a technical issue. Sote information systems are literally about people's lives and deaths. Mr President! One legitimate concern has been how to ensure that multinational health companies pay their taxes to Finland. The proposal imposes a binding obligation on large social groups to report their financial statements, but quite fundamental information has been omitted from the report. They do not give an overall picture of whether or not social services companies pay taxes where profit has been generated. There are no sanctions against the Sote companies for breaking the obligation. In addition, it remains unclear whether a multinational company should submit a report for the whole company. If the obligation applies only to the Finnish part, it is easy to hide the profits. Sote companies should therefore report their most important financial statements as defined in the Tax Procedure Act. The OECD and the EU consider them to be most important for preventing aggressive tax planning. The largest international companies have to report them already. These corrections should be made to the draft before the committee. Mr President! The legislation on freedom of choice was in the opinion and there were over 600 opinions. The overall response was very critical. The government quickly changed the presentation to a large number of changes, in fact so much that, in normal circumstances, we should have put it in a new consultation. The commentators have spoken about a motion that no longer exists. This final package would certainly have been the subject of different opinions, which could also have contained substantial comments which should have been taken into account. Now this work remains with Parliament. We Members of Parliament received this presentation of more than 300 pages yesterday. How much time does it take to get to grips with it in such a short time? Once again, an example of the poor preparation of the government. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to raise the issue of social and health care staff. The status of staff is unreasonable. There are a lot of changes coming up and a lot of them are fast, and we still do not know how the job is going to turn out. And what will happen to the job in the future? When customers are able to change service providers annually, this may lead to changes in the needs of the company staff accordingly. Will social welfare professionals become new-time nomads, who are forced to go after their jobs at their worst every year from one employer to another? We all agree on the need for social reform. However, it must be carried through with commitment to the original objectives and genuine cooperation between all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u300	Mr President! The government proposal submitted to the hearing includes one of the most important reforms of our welfare society. It amends the foundations of our social and health care system, which was built in the 1970s. The responsibilities of municipalities and joint municipal boards of municipalities are transferred to the provincial administration and mainly publicly produced services are opened up for business operations. All parts of the system are now moving at the same time. Our current system has succeeded in many respects in looking at the contributions made by healthcare and the results achieved through them. Finland’s healthcare expenditure is below the EU average. The results in terms of life expectancy and healthy years of life are good in comparison. The international comparison of social care is not as common and similar comparative information is not easily found, but there is no reason to doubt that the Finnish model will succeed in such a comparison. One might say this: the Finnish system is not broken and should therefore not be corrected. Well, that's not the case. Reform is necessary, it is necessary. In the case of the largest proportion of the public sector and in the case of an issue affecting the economy as a whole and the welfare of society as a whole, it would be irresponsible to avoid or postpone the necessary reforms. Mr President! Despite good overall results and reasonable cost-effectiveness, Finland's social welfare and health care services have room for correction and improvement. When comparing the results, critical attention should be focused on inequality among the different population groups. The health gap between low and high income earners is high, as are the differences between people at different levels of education. The state of well-being and health of the most vulnerable is alarming. Displacement is life-threatening. Equality does not exist, although social and health services are not dominated by much maligned market forces, but by public organisation and production. Another lack experienced in our current system is the headline of the law that has just been presented. The system of public services does not provide enough choice for people. When the welfare society was built over the last century, such a thing certainly was not in the minds of designers and decision-makers. The results were thought to be measured by clear numbers: how many are born healthy and grow up, how many years can be expected, whether people of working age are able to work and whether insecure children or elderly people have a roof over their heads? The freedom to choose a preferred service provider was not in the mind of the system builders. However, today’s people are not, are not, simply, the object of the measures. They also assess quality in health and social services. The third need for reform is related to the cost development of services. Over the last couple of decades, the amount spent on health services in particular has increased. Its share of total GDP has risen close to the EU average. However, the growth pressures observed on the basis of the population’s age structure will be realised over the next two decades. How do we deal with them? Well, not by going back to the way it used to be. Mr President! The Government's project to reform social and health services is necessary and it is also necessary to bring in a proposal on the content of the services, a proposal on the freedom of choice model. The proposals deserve to be openly and fairly evaluated. It is also unnecessary to paint horror pictures of the involvement of the corporate sector. Private service providers are a well-known factor, particularly in the health sector. At this stage, it is difficult, if not impossible, to make an overall assessment of the Act on Freedom of Choice. It is understandablely difficult for parliamentarians because the proposal is very broad and detailed. On the other hand, it is difficult to understand or accept the fact that the government itself recognises that it does not know how to evaluate the reform. The presentation says that the impact assessment is problematic and contains a lot of assumptions. When it comes to the fundamental role of the whole welfare society, it is totally unacceptable that impact assessments are guesses. It is clear from the presentation that the will of the leading government parties has been impressed: the Centre has wanted the provincial government and the Coalition Party to promote freedom of choice. The impact assessment has been limited. Mr President! When it comes to impact, it is particularly difficult to see how the proposal increases equality. The proposal for this ultimate objective is aimed at: it may enable equality, it depends on how the provinces operate. It is necessary to add that it is essentially dependent on the users of the services. How is freedom of choice used by a well-trained, wealthy citizen? How is it used by a disadvantaged person? How far off? The current health inequalities are growing, not narrowing, I fear. Of course, greater freedom of choice is welcome. However, it is quite difficult to combine it with keeping costs under control. Why would it work for us when it doesn't work anywhere else? It is difficult to find support in international comparisons for an assumption other than the freedom of choice of services and the increase in costs. In the government's proposal, a lot of "but if" reservations are added to the "cost wish". I repeat: freedom of choice is a good thing, but can we afford it? And if the money runs out, what's the deal?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u301	Mr President! First of all, to the previous speaker, if you look at international research literature on freedom of choice, you will find good examples of how freedom of choice has been able to find solutions that benefit taxpayers as well as users of the service through quality. The government proposal has been evaluated according to all the skills that our officials do in key legislative proposals, and this is an exceptionally broad assessment of these effects. The fact that this impact assessment has been difficult: if the representative read the impact assessments, it was found that this is a challenge, for example, because this type of reform has not been carried out in the past, when there is no research literature. This may be a clarification of the previous speech. Mr President! It was indeed necessary for the government to take note of the feedback from the consultation. It is now up to Parliament to carefully address this law and indeed to ensure that the proposal effectively supports the objective of social and health care as a whole. For people, it is very welcome to strengthen basic services and to have equal and timely access to social services. This is a good reform for people. Freedom of choice also provides much-needed incentives for cost-effective activities, continuous development and innovation. There has been a lack of this essential piece of earlier attempts at social services. In other words, it is not just an administrative practice — that is what it is — but it is indeed a major operational reform, and it is important that we carefully go through this bill. I agree with the previous speaker that this must be done carefully. It is important that the production of services continues in the cycle of reform. Social and health care services are a matter of life and death and it is therefore important that continuity is ensured. Indeed, success requires the coordination of information systems, fully reformed, multi-professional management, strong involvement of all staff and careful collaboration. But it is good to underline that laws create a framework and the key to success is the knowledge and ability of the provinces. On the basis of the consultation, the proposal specified the services provided by the social services centres, the demand for guidance and advice for all and the requirement for coordination of the service. A revised obligation for products from the private, third and public sectors to guarantee smooth services was necessary in order to reach the current smooth care chains where people are the most important and not the system. In those repairs that the government did, changes were also made to the producer compensation and indeed to take account of people's personal well-being and health risk, or care, and I hope that the opposition will also read these corrections. I note that VATT has, among other things, stressed that a successful compensation system can achieve the objectives of reducing costs and reducing inequalities. And, indeed, with this customized compensation, it is possible to root out the wrong incentives, such as cream peeling, and to encourage people to care for different people according to their needs. This dimension of compensation is absolutely central to the success of the reform and it was important that there was a broad debate on it, and it is very important that the impact of the compensation be monitored and, if necessary, adjusted quickly when experience and information are actually available. That is what I would like to say here that, when I have gone through the bill and also the impact assessments, it can be said that this renewed Finnish freedom of choice model can encourage producers to implement customer services as a whole and, where necessary, to include preventive measures and early intervention. The model can improve the provision of services to disadvantaged socio-economic groups and also create conditions for reducing welfare and health inequalities. Unfortunately, this share of all the opposition's alternative models is missing. This speeding up access to the social welfare centre prevents the accumulation of problems and reduces the need for specific services, i.e. cost-effectiveness. Investing social welfare guidance and counselling as part of direct selection services will also enable people to be guided, for example, by peer support from organisations, and it is really important to ensure that organisations can operate and finance during this reform. There is certainly a need in this Parliament to add to this package of social welfare legislation the obligation of the provinces to cooperate with organisations. Unfortunately, that law was still lacking. It is also good to note, when this debate takes place, that these services of freedom of choice are now in sectors where private operators already exist. When you consider impact assessments, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in impact assessments has been found to remain unchanged or to increase somewhat due, inter alia, to direct procurement, customer bills and personal budgets. The scope of the service package required of direct choice service providers is likely to result in the main producers of social welfare centres being larger companies. This is also, of course, influenced by the definition of capital funding by the provinces. I think it is very important for Parliament to ensure and assess, in particular, that the entry of a new entrepreneur or organisation as a producer of freedom of choice is not too high a threshold. It is certainly not the intention to make a scene for large companies, nor to make it possible or create oligopolies, so this is still to be ensured, but the government has made very necessary and good corrections here. In particular, Parliament must go through this stage in the start-up of the market. That is one critical point. And it was very welcome for the provinces to be able to decide on the timetables best suited to them in terms of implementation. It is very important that the regions are of different sizes. I think there are too many of them, I would have supported the solution of the five social welfare areas, but we are now in the regional model and we have adapted to it and we are moving forward with that. It is important that, when the regions are different in terms of carrying capacity and functional capacity, this difference in size does not result in decisions that are not appropriate. It is important that we see the situation in Uusimaa, and for us this transition period was important. But I draw the attention of the ministers to the fact that those terms of the pilot money are not suitable for the major regions of Varsinais-Suomi and Uusimaa. I hope that they will also be seen as being funded where there are large numbers of people. Overall, it is essential that: The financing of Uusimaa corresponds to its population and its special tasks. Here's where we're going to do the exact thing. President! I note that the timetable is very tight. Public production has to adapt to a completely new environment, and rapid changes in operations are challenging, especially with regard to staff transfers. But it is good to say that the core does not change. The public sector social services sector has been responsible for providing services to people. It stays and grows stronger. I believe that the Finnish public health service provider will be even stronger in the future, and the experience and customer base that it has must be able to translate into a strong competitive advantage. But what I want to underline here and what is very important for the parliamentary group is that the staff are involved in the planning and implementation of the reform. Good care for staff is a prerequisite for the success of the reform as a whole, and this varies from region to region. I think it is important that it is also strongly communicated by the government itself and by the leaders of change and that all model rules and operating models highlight the fact that the staff are strongly involved, because they are the ones who do the services. Another point I would like to draw attention to is that, in order to minimise the harmful effects, it is very important that solutions made by the provinces are monitored and compared transparently and collectively already in the preparatory phase. And solutions are still needed for this, in what way the provinces will be compared in the future. Finally, the freedom of choice model, if we look at impact assessments, really offers opportunities to curb expenditure if we are carefully implemented. But those objectives of cost control are very demanding and, if they are to be achieved, it does require constant guidance from the regions in order to build a framework for action in support of their achievement. It is also good to note that the economic and operational benefits of digitalisation, for example, are in the second half of the 2020s. But this folding of cost trends is a political objective which creates the conditions in this law, and it is then very much up to what kind of solutions the provinces will find. But what is essential in this proposal, President-in-Office, is that every Finn receives services that have an equal and timely effect. That is why social reform is taking place, and freedom of choice is a central part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u302	Mr President! Representative Sarkomaa raised an important issue, cooperation between the province and organisations. It does not appear in the law and we must get it there during the parliamentary procedure. But I would also like to draw attention to another issue raised by Mr Sarkomaa, the diversity of regions and his concern as to whether the provinces will be able to carry out their new social tasks. I thought I heard Minister Rehula say that one of the smallest regions, Central Ostrobothnia, will, according to his assessment, best perform and be most enthusiastic about it. As a matter of fact, Uusimaa is the one that is currently one of the regions worst off taking forward the new social welfare reform, so I guess it is not about size, but about the desire of the province to reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u303	It seems that the interrelationship between the representatives of the government parties continues. Congressman Sarkomaa, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u304	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, I just wanted to say that when I attempt to objectively assess this bill, it is a challenge for the provinces to be of different sizes, and it is important that it does not lead to decisions that are not appropriate for this reform. I brought up the fact that this pilot money, 100 million, is very welcome, but the conditions that have been imposed on them are better suited to small provinces. We must now work together on how to modify the conditions so that the money is properly spent in Uusimaa too, because there the creation of pilots is very different. At this stage, we may not necessarily want to enter into a business, because we do not know what the whole of Uusimaa is. We do not want the staff to have more incorporations, so these entities must be assessed. I believe that the government will do this in good agreement, and we really agree that change will take place everywhere in Finland. Today there was a meeting of the heads of municipalities in Uusimaa, and the reform is underway.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u305	One more response, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, right from the start of the debate, after the ministerial presentation, I raised one great concern about equality, and the very reason is that, in principle, these regions of ours are so different in size and the resources there to provide services are very different, and, on the other hand, the interest of these private operators, for example, to come to a particular region. I admit that the government has made improvements, because there the legislation has now now been obliged to take care of the province in the final analysis, but it still does not remove it from the starting point, could it be said, from an unequal or non-equal starting point? In my opinion, this is a major constitutional issue which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will then have to ask whether this model is one that genuinely and truly gives its equality to people living in different parts of Finland. However, this is a very important and central objective of this whole reform of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u307	My last response to this part of the debate, Mr Puska. We have agreed to move on to the next item at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u308	Mr President! Briefly, I would like to continue this debate on 18 regions or 5 larger regions. As I understand it, this is very much about whether we look at things from the point of view of basic services or from the point of view of special services. From the point of view of special services, the larger regions would probably be justified, but when we assume that the main focus here is on the construction of good basic services, I think that the natural regions are the best. It does not solve all the issues of special services, but it is precisely for this purpose that cooperation is required in the form of a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u309	The debate is adjourned. The referral debate will be resumed at this sitting after other matters of the order of business have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u310	We will now resume the debate on item 12 that was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u311	Mr President! Despite today's plentiful alternative facts, both in the management register and in the freedom of choice debate, they have fomented unfounded fears and have also included strange interpretations of the issues under discussion. However, freedom of choice legislation gives us the opportunity to look at the whole reform of the social economy as a whole. It should be better understood for us decision-makers as well as for preparatory experts in the provinces. I hope that the public's perception of the real effects of social welfare reform will also become clearer in their everyday lives. When freedom of choice legislation comes into effect, our service system takes a big leap towards a human-centred, customer-oriented operating model. Freedom of choice is an instrument to me. Freedom of choice is not an absolute value, but it highlights human dignity. [Conversation on the Presidential bench ] Mr President! The opposition has been particularly concerned about the decline in integration and the fragmentation of service chains. I would therefore like to ask whether those chains are working at the moment and whether the current model is genuine integration. The answer is very clear: no. Inefficient service chains, queues between all the care stairs and the lack of integration are precisely the reasons why the total cost of our health care is increasing and the discontent of our citizens is increasing. It is the current situation that has led to an increase in private health insurance. It should be noted that the capital region has areas where the majority of newborns already receive health insurance at birth. This clearly indicates that there is currently no confidence in the public service, mainly its flexible availability. The strengthening of the insurance-based system will inevitably lead to a continuous increase in health inequalities. Publicly funded reform of customer choice is a means of halting inequality. I personally believe in the ability of a public producer to continue to compete successfully for patients or customers. However, we need different service providers to meet people's different service needs. The range of services provided by the new social services centres is excellent for the integration needs of most citizens, and the regional social centres have all the tools to achieve a broad integration. However, it should be noted that integration between specialised medical care and primary health care requires not only changes in the way in which specialised medical care operates, but also the introduction of specialist medical services into the activities of social services. The provinces now have a point of view. Specialised medical care managed by it must be able to function better and more productively. It must be able to cooperate seamlessly with all social centres. Controlling the growth of operating expenditure is based on productivity increases, the appropriate use of specialised care services and timely care of the patient. In the future, the role of specialised medical care must be increasingly consultative with the overall responsibility of basic actors. Mr President! Regions should start piloting the freedom of choice model and personal budgeting extensively already in 2018. I very much hope that as few regions as possible will have to delay the start of the social welfare centres until 2021. A step-by-step transition is, of course, sensible and safe, but the unnecessary delay in reform is not acceptable from the point of view of equality among citizens. I am particularly concerned about the very different possibilities for the various regions to carry out social reform with honour. For smaller regions, the population is not sufficient from the point of view of the organisation of specialised medical care services, either in terms of funding or quality of services. However, freedom of choice legislation should also bring new types of service providers to sparsely populated areas, as can be seen from the excellent experiments that have begun in Upper Savo, for example. But the built-in problem for too small regions will not be solved by freedom of choice legislation or even by regional taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u312	Mr President! The aim of the Sote reform was to strengthen basic health care and streamline care chains, improve integration and reduce costs. The original objectives do not seem to be realised. As a result of forced privatisation and corporateisation, treatment chains appear to be fragmented, inequalities increase and costs increase. The threat for the future is the transition to an American-type model of social and health services, where costs relative to GDP are double, but the treatment results are much worse in relation to the current Finnish system. There is a lot of good in Finland's social welfare and health care, but there are also problems that need to be addressed and social welfare reform is needed. The major problem with the current system is that the health centre does not always reach the time needed for the necessary care, as health centres are under-resourced. However, solving the problems of access to basic health care does not require the planned massive consolidation and privatisation and fragmentation of the service system. Access to primary health care and congestion in health centres could be improved by pooling primary and special care with the same provincial producer as fluent service chains and by channelling more resources to primary health care, i.e. doctors and nurses. You have to listen to the experts in the preparation. Reading the statements on this legislative package is chilling. The so-called freedom of choice model has been knocked out from many quarters and criticism is justified. According to experts, there will be no savings of EUR 3 billion and the reform will not reduce welfare and health inequalities. Criticism has rightly been given about the timetable for the project, which, fortunately, has changed somewhat. The urgency that has been created for political reasons is not a legitimate reason for a reform of this size. We should at least get back on the schedule. The original plan of the Sipilä Government to set up provinces first, then move to one-channel funding and only in the third phase would the freedom of choice model be introduced. This would not bring the whole system back together and drive the system to the brink of chaos, but would allow a step-by-step and controlled change. Mr President! The modernisation of social services should draw lessons from the experience of the regions. For example, it is worth hearing the experiences of Kainuu Sote and Eksote, which have already built services that integrate social and health services, or the abandonment of the customer-producer model in Oulu because it did not work in the context of the organisation of social services. It is worth learning from these experiences now when making the biggest change in Finnish history. Now, however, it seems that the integrated social welfare models built in Kainuu and Eksote will have to be dismantled in the face of forced companyisation and the poor administration model in Oulu, which has already been driven down, is being extended to the province, although the organiser-producer model is being named. The Government’s social welfare model narrows the local authority’s decision on which model the administration and production of social services are organised. After all, municipalities and joint municipal authorities now have a fairly wide choice of ways of organising and organising services, but this will not be the case in the future, as the state steering will be very strict. The regions have a good solution as a basis for social services, but the regions must have genuine autonomy, i.e. the right to tax and budgetary power, and the power to decide how to organise services in their own region, so that the democratically elected regional councils have the power and power that they must have. Mr President! The government's amendments to the legislative proposals that have been submitted are in some places in the right direction but inadequate. As far as tax avoidance of social enterprises is concerned, the draft law has been improved, but still not sufficiently. Finnwatch, for example, pointed out that publicly reported data should be more comprehensive in order to properly assess financial arrangements and taxation. I hope that in the committee's deliberations the tax liability clause will be further specified. If all of us are concerned about ensuring proper payment of taxes and transparency, then no one should object to introducing the necessary complements to the sustainability clause. Mr President! From the citizen's point of view, there are still many unclear issues. The system-level costs are assessed in legislative proposals and capitations are discussed, but what is essential for people is what will be the level of costs for the customer. I fear that customer charges will rise because the reform is likely to increase the cost of the system, but at the same time cost growth should be curbed. In Finland, the share of customer fees in financing is already highest in the Nordic countries and there is no room for withdrawal. In the future, if customer fees continue to rise from now on, more and more low incomes will not go to the doctor. It can already be seen that due to the health centre fees, people are failing to treat themselves in time and untreated diseases are getting worse and costs are increasing. Mr President! The Government’s mouth assures us that this model will condense and eliminate the possibility of cream peeling health giants. However, in the so-called broad freedom of choice, it is difficult to find a model that does not involve the risks of over- or under-care. Companies will be tempted to select healthy patients, pass on costs to the county business, or offer a little extra services that will benefit them financially. The actual need for patient and customer care should always be at the heart of decision-making, but this may not be the case in the future. Cream peeling may be done by companies, for example, by decisions of establishment. If a person does not actively choose a health centre, as a large part does not, the person is listed at the nearest health centre, whether private or public. For example, there is a situation in Oulu that there are no public health centres in the city centre, which means that in the future all residents of the city centre will be listed in private health centres in the city centre, and a private company will receive money from them even if they do not use the services at all, while public, large health centres, which have been sized for the needs of the entire population, will then be half empty. It is advisable for companies to establish themselves in areas where people are well-off and to attract on-line clients, especially at work, who receive their services by other means. The company receives the money from these people even if they do not use the services at all. I hope that this problem will be corrected in committee. I would like to see a bill listing passive voters in health centres in the province, and the money laundering of occupational health customers would be restricted by regulations. Mr President! The big question is what will happen to the existing large-scale service centres, such as family counselling centres, birth prevention clinics or large-scale drug clients service centres. Some of the services they offer today come within the scope of freedom of choice, so there is a risk that functional and cost-effective service centres will have to be dismantled. For example, there are four family planning and contraception clinics in Vantaa that offer a wide range of prevention and family planning and gynecological services without service fees. The operation of these centres is now under threat, as some of the services they offer come within the scope of freedom of choice, i.e. incorporation, so the question mark is whether such large-scale service centres can no longer be maintained by the province if some of the services are services covered by freedom of choice. The operation of these centres is very important. For example, these prevention clinics have done a very good and cost-effective job in Vantaa, it has been possible to provide all the services that women need under the same roof, and it has produced good money saving results, but above all health results. So I would like to be able to write a law in which these existing, very good and impressive service centres would not have to drive down and chop up. Mr President! Social and regional reform will revolutionise the important social and health services of all Finns, but also the jobs of more than 200,000 social and health professionals. This is a massive job transfer, these things have less often been seen in Finland. I hope that this change will ensure that personnel organisations are involved in the planning and implementation process. It is also important to remember the employees of regional support service companies. High-quality services are always backed by skilled workers, and their skills must be listened to and their concerns must be taken into account in this change. I wish the committee a lot of strength for this big and challenging
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u313	Mr President! One of the biggest legal packages in the history of Finland’s independence is now under discussion, if not the largest. In view of the regional reform package, which is an integral part of this freedom of choice legislation, it is certainly a question of Finland's largest legislative package. A few things before I say anything else: Until now, municipalities have been able to manage the services of citizens reasonably well. For example, in my own country, North Karelia, services play, the finances of municipalities are reasonably stable and all services can be managed. So there's no such thing as a crisis. The fact that this has given the impression that something has to be done and that the bogeyman is now coming up against us if we do not do so is not true, at least in my own country. Let the other provinces speak for themselves. When you look at the European Union’s standards of social and health care expenditure, Finland’s social and health care expenditure relative to GDP is one of the lowest in Europe. Which means we don't have to do anything about it either. It is true that social and health care must be reformed, but there is nothing to be done in this panic. That should be made clear before we start looking at the rest. In recent years, municipalities have been the last defenders of rural people. It's the last line of defense that still exists. In Finland, we are on the road to the very centralization of the history of Finland’s independence, which takes all residents to growth centres, and the countryside is being killed by a task. I have said today in the writings of Karjalainen, the main newspaper of the province, and Savon Sanomat, that there is a metropolitan policy going on that will destroy both the countryside and the city. In the city, prices are rising enormously, for example, in housing, and then in rural areas the impact is disastrous when people move out and property is left empty. This Act on freedom of choice specifically concerns the autonomous decision-making powers of the municipalities, which are now moving to the provincial centres, and with the reform of the province. It goes without saying that the major centres in the provinces will take up most of the seats of the elected provincial council and the small municipalities will practically get nothing, and if they do, there will be one passing councilman who will not be able to do anything against the elected representatives of the great city. Now that social and health care services are being opened up to free competition, the services are moving very quickly to regional centres. Private service providers focus only on central sites. Small municipalities lose both their money, property and jobs provided by social welfare and health services. It is quite pointless to imagine that when jobs are transferred to growth centres, people do not follow. It's 100 percent sure. The surest way to silence a municipality is to take jobs. Private capital is always seeking the best return on the market, which is only available in cities in this case. For example, Ilomants municipalities have no chance of getting private services there. On the other hand, when private services take over the market, the public side will be severely reduced, and this will certainly happen within the framework of this law in small rural communities. When this personal budgeting comes into force with this law and the customer chooses a service provider, these large multinational companies will in any case take over most of the market. Last summer I went to various events to hear these experts on their own, at my own expense, and I became convinced that private people are taking over 40 to 60 % of the market. In other words, the public side will have to cut back, and these cuts will certainly affect small rural communities. My municipality of Ilomantsi is just that, and in Finland, the majority of these municipalities are these small municipalities. Large international companies, which are mainly represented by these investors, are completely blind to whether social distress is greater or smaller. Only an economic profit is an objective. It is precisely this payment of housing allowance, for example, that has shown this. Here large transnational companies finance housing support from the Finnish state budget. Originally it was supposed to support the housing of the poor, but where is it going now? There are these special Selini and others who take money blindly and take them out of the country. I cannot believe that these social enterprises, which come from abroad, are somehow more blessed in social terms than those mentioned above. I hope that, when the committee deals with this issue, it will also take that small municipality's case into account, because there is still local self-government in this country. In any case, small municipalities in the next few years will be affected by drastic layoffs and redundancies, which are concentrated specifically in rural municipalities. You can ask: What right do big investors, large international investors have better rights to the tax resources of people in rural municipalities than local people have to their own tax money? Where can we find this justification? That is what I would like to make clear to myself before I go into old age and start thinking about these things by myself and talking in the corners by myself. This is the question I have not yet been able to resolve for myself. With freedom of choice and the start of the provincial administration, elected decision-makers are very likely to be representatives of the regional centres, as has just been said. The current electoral system is particularly favourable to large central places. Relative electoral methods — we all know how it works, especially those elected as parliamentarians should know. There are exceptions, but the big centers always win that race. Small municipalities with few people can't get their candidates through. The power will inevitably be transferred to the centers of the provinces. And on the basis of the current experience that I have with the regional administration of North Karelia since 2001, every single project has always taken a lion's share. I am not going to identify cases, but a couple of projects have even been taken with determination by a small scam to the county centre, even though it was supposed to come to the periphery. If anyone thinks that a procedure has changed in this regard, I would ask him to set a good example. After 2021, the property owned by municipalities for health and social services will be largely empty when the region’s first interests have never been the development of periphery areas and the processing of properties there. If anyone here is looking for an example, then let's take this state-owned real estate company, which is now the new owner of hospitals in county centres, or a subsidiary of Senate real estate. For example, in Ilomantsi, Senate Properties drove the Border Guard out of their own premises with an absurd rental policy and the Border Guard moved to the vacant vocational college premises — and is well there and pays only one third of the rent that it would have been for Senate Properties from the state’s own property. If anyone still thinks that the state real estate company has sympathy for the provinces, then I suggest you look into the recent history of Senate properties. I can give you a two-hour course free of charge and bring you the calculations of what this thing really is. I'm already an old man enough that I don't believe in Santa anymore. There will be major financial losses for the municipalities when the property loses its value, which will then be written down in the accounts. That's how it goes under the accounting law. The fate of many indebted municipalities is not to be envied when jobs disappear and real estate loses its value. This applies not only to a health centre or similar building, but also to the personal wealth of people, consisting of a permanent dwelling, a leisure dwelling or other property that he has been able to collect in his or her home area during his life. When the services leave and the jobs leave, the value of the property collapses. This has already been seen, for example, these figures are clearly shown on the website of the Finnish Real Estate Association. The value of small rural municipalities' properties, detached houses, summer cottages is virtually zero today. The biggest sale of real estate in the history of Finland's independence is underway. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will take a position on this, because I think this is serious enough not to play with it. As this aid for free competition is now being extended to social welfare and health care, I hope that the committees will carefully review whether this is the right thing to do. For example, when you look at the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which I read with my hair up the other night, when there was nothing else to read, it was a reasonably critical statement in this matter, and quite a bit of respect for the opinions of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, because it is, however, a fairly large group of experts in this matter. I don't want to be a brake on mess or anything else. In North Karelia there is already a Siu sociale, which has already been established by the Regional Union, which has been reasonably well-managed since the beginning of this year, and Siun sociale has started from the point of departure that a joint municipal body has been set up and agreed in the Treaty, how the work is done, and when the Treaty has agreed on matters, it is also a permanent document. But when this mess loses its meaning too, I'm a little pessimistic about what's gonna happen to us. Mr President! Finally, I would just like to say that, as a representative of a small rural community, I hope that the committees, particularly the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, will take this matter seriously and also take account of the role of small municipalities in this matter. There we want to continue to live and work in rural areas and to add value to Finnish society. I also hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will examine these issues of local government finances carefully in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u314	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr Talman! Health and medical care fall within the competence of the Åland Islands, but the proposal nevertheless has a number of immediate effects and side effects on Åland. There are also certain direct errors which need to be corrected in committee and which need to be examined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as these errors have not been taken into account in the drafting of legislation. I want to raise five points: 1. Finland has two regional jurisdictions. Quote for detailed reasons: "A customer could choose a service provider from the whole of Finland regardless of the region in which the customer lives." That is not true. The proposal does not take into account the fact that: Finland consists of two territorial areas of competence for social welfare and health care. The province of Åland has competence in the field of social welfare and health care, and the freedom of choice that is now to be introduced is limited to the territorial jurisdiction of the kingdom. The matter must therefore be reviewed by law, and it should be recorded that Åland has its own jurisdiction and that Åland is outside the realm of freedom of choice. This is not a political matter, it is a technical matter, so that the law works according to Åland's law of self-government. That is why it is important for the committee to take this into account. The Minister has already commented on this matter before this Chamber, and I would also like to thank the Minister for this comment. Point 2, temporary stay and urgent care: As Åland is not included in the freedom of choice, a temporary border crossing between the national care area and the Åland Islands must be taken into account by law. The draft law must therefore include the content of the temporary stay, i.e. Section 7 and the emergency care, Section 8. With the provincial government, we need to find out more about how the treatment is regulated for those Ålanders who are temporarily staying here in the kingdom, as well as for those who live here but are temporarily staying in Åland. The report must also include responsibility and criteria for the payments that have been made. It should be regulated in the contract regulation. Point 3, availability of special services: Swedish-speaking places and investments in, for example, the protection of children in the state or in substance abuse care are extremely important for Åland, as it is not always possible to maintain the places in Åland. The reform of freedom of choice must not mean that the Swedish-speaking units in particular will disappear. In case of forced custody, minors cannot be taken to treatment in Sweden, so treatment must be received in Swedish from Finland. However, the proposal does not support the organisation of units that cross the provincial boundaries that are being run today by joint municipal authorities. Point 4, special care in Swedish: Åland buys a large part of the special care kingdom, as it is impossible to maintain all special areas in Åland. Although Åland finances this treatment, it is important to ensure that Åland receives special medical care in Swedish. In order for Åland to continue to guarantee high-quality specialised medical care, it is necessary to ensure that Swedish-speaking care facilities and services can be purchased from the country. Point 5, the social insurance system and multi-channel funding, which comes to Parliament during the autumn: The social insurance system falls within the competence of the state. However, the modified and created systems must operate in Åland in accordance with the Act of Self-Government in order to guarantee the same social insurance cover as for residents of the Åland Islands. In the preparation of multi-channel financing, the state must engage in a dialogue with the provincial government on how to neutralise the effects of the bill for Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u315	Mr President! It is precisely this listing that I am concerned about now — good thing that the Minister is here. If I understood it correctly, is this the case that every person is listed somewhere? Now there are people who are not really sick, at least at the beginning of the year, who might get flu in October or November and then need medical treatment. Is this the case that this compulsory listing will then deprive this person of this freedom of choice? He must go to the place where he was listed earlier by the province or by someone else. Another thing that amazes me is why everything has to be listed and paid for listing to these operators if that service is not needed that year. When, at least, there is no need to pay what has not been received, is the money that has been paid to the operators as a result of the listing if that service is not to be used, or is this such a support measure that comes like a dinner for him? The other thing I was paying attention to here is these drug addicts and drug addicts. If we go to this side, is it also the case that they are listed at the beginning of the year? Do you believe, Minister, that if a person is a substance addict or a drug addict, he or she will decide in January that he/she may then, in December or June, apply for treatment? I do not believe that such a decision can be made in advance, but how will this work in the future? How do these people get treatment and also get social services at the same time, not just health? This is a big question, because we have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u316	Mr President! I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Government and especially to the Minister for Family and Basic Services, Juha Rehula, who has also arrived here in Parliament at night. Now we have a whole package here before Parliament, a regional reform and a reform of the organisation of social welfare and health care, after this proposal for the freedom of choice of the customer has been brought before Parliament. After all, constitutional experts can always surprise you, but this is probably not as bad as Mr Lindtman's recent table-putting proposal on the management register. After all, it seems that this constitutional aspect of this proposal is quite clear. There is hard work ahead in the provinces, and it is of course very important that services can be secured by region as equally as possible for residents in different parts of the world. It is a shame that my own province, Varsinais-Suomi, has barely started preparing this reform. The reform of the social and health services is such a restructuring that it will, for example, beat the reforms presented in the context of this budgetary plan alone if it is well implemented and the quality of the basic services, the quality of the basic solutions can be safeguarded and taken care of. Of course, management and, in particular, the development of information systems to help this management is a key issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u317	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Rehula, who will be here late in the evening. Of course, as you yourself said earlier, this is an historic moment and it is therefore right that you should share it with us. I asked one question that day, and I hope that now is the time to answer it. Mr President! It takes great ideological credulity to believe that privatisation, the incorporation of companies will improve health care. At present, responsibility is exercised, from a commercial point of view in the future, and supervision remains with the provincial authorities. A similar model in the banking sector led to a disastrous global financial crisis. Even as an entrepreneur for 30 years, I fully understand the logic of business. Revenues can be obtained through more efficient, more efficient savings, lower services and, where possible, tax evasion. International health groups are the owners of venture capital investors and they mercilessly demand a return. They are certainly not charitable organizations. Don't think there's anything the supervisors can do to keep up. We get to read a lot of scandal stories about misdemeanors and malpractice. Social and health services are the common good of society and must be in the hands of society. Implementation can well be outsourced by common democratic decisions on a situation-by-case basis, but power must not be given to companies, because corporate power can never be restored to society again — never again. Freedom of choice will not happen if I cannot choose a public centre for social services from 1 January 2019 onwards, so I will renew my question to Minister Rehula: can you guarantee that everyone can choose a public operator from 1 January 2019 if they so wish? I will return to that section 57 of the draft law, which was very much praised here and which is said to prevent any tax evasion. The SDP disagrees, Finnwatch disagrees and international groups, you will see, disagree. I am pleased that the government has heard with the other ear the many demands for improvement that we have put forward. Above all, the most important of them is country-specific group reporting. Attendo’s director, Pertti Karjalainen, also said that they felt that the SDP’s demands were reasonable and appropriate to them. This country-by-country reporting finally entered into the Tax Procedures Act at the turn of the year with the EU directive. This had been required for a long time by both the SDP and many NGOs, and like many of the laws that are lacking in aggressive tax planning or direct tax evasion, it has come to Finland from Brussels. We ourselves have not had much of a hobby to do it. Article 14 of the Tax Procedures Act requires the company to provide seven information. Unfortunately, four of the government's proposals are missing. We demand earlier and demand now that the company's profits, the number of employees, the staff costs are presented by country. The article is insufficient to assess the tax liability of companies, whether the tax money is going to tax havens. After all, it was amazing that the government did not do much to clarify the business and tax effects of this massive, significant, historic companyization project. That is why the Socialist Group in Parliament was forced to do so on behalf of the government. This report was published in March and, of course, it has been and is still in the hands of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u320	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen and Minister! We need a social reform, and for years there has been considerable consensus in this Chamber and, in fact, in Finland as a whole. The purpose of the reform is to increase health and well-being with the same money. I believe that bringing services from private companies will increase freedom of choice, and it is a good thing that the task assigned to the province is to regulate the framework of services and also to ensure their integration. This is therefore a task for the provinces. Such a social welfare reform is necessary and necessary in order to improve equality between people throughout Finland. That, too, must be a sense of unity in this Chamber. It should be borne in mind that the aim of the reform is not to carry out a social welfare reform due to cuts in expenditure, but to curb cost growth by EUR 3 billion over the coming years. It is also important to remember that the province decides on social services networks, not the law. Juha Sipilä's Government obliges future provinces to be a so-called guarantor, who is responsible for providing local services. Every Finnish citizen has the right to receive high-quality services from the social welfare centre, wherever he lives. There has also been a great deal of concern about services in remote areas. The regions have the tools to implement freedom of choice. If the market does not work for any reason, the province can organise a framework contract competition and competition companies. If this does not work, the province may, if necessary, provide the services itself. In my view, the emergence of private social welfare centres on the market in terms of cream peeling will also be curbed by what has been emphasised in the government proposal. There is a very extensive list of services that must be found in social centres. I believe that one important aspect of the reform is also the social-digit development company. Its purpose is to have integrated reporting and reporting systems and integrated services in the regions. It must also be ensured that small businesses are also involved in this freedom of choice and in the opportunities it offers. It is natural that freedom of choice and the provision of social services are more diverse where there is more population base. That's how it is today, isn't it? When the regions do not have that right of taxation at the beginning, I think it is quite clear that the reform will start with state funding. The customer fee is the same once the place of care is approved by the province. Access to the same familiar doctor is allowed when the customer can choose the place where treatment can be obtained. These care places compete for customers with quality and good care. Finally, I would also like to thank Minister Ruhula, who has just left the Chamber, for the long and good work he has done to bring this matter forward, and also for having been able to attend today's long sitting here to listen to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u321	Mr President! Tiina Merikanto, Yle’s editor, who follows the dirt very closely and is really aware of it, wrote an article yesterday that started with the title “We’re going to risk”. It must be the mood of a lot of actors, both here in Parliament and in that field — the impression that the best is hoped for, the worst is feared for these presentations — because the impact assessments are rather vague on the legislative proposals that are now here today in the referral debate. In addition to the opposition, which is probably the quietest of all these commentators, there have been critical commentators, experts in social and health care, both THL and elsewhere, and the Legislative Review Council. In fact, the Legislative Review Council knocked out this whole big box. And when I look at, for example, these feedbacks that different commentators put to the question of whether the reform can improve the health and well-being differences between the population, 3% of all respondents thought that it could, zero per cent of municipalities, zero per cent of joint municipal authorities. If the customer has extensive service needs, will the reform enable the customer to obtain coordinated services in the appropriate way? Of all the respondents, "yes" was 2 per cent, of the municipalities 0 per cent, of the joint municipal authorities 0 per cent. In other words, those operators who currently carry out social and health care services do it in practice, meet those people, organise those on-callers, zero percent believe that this will improve customer equality, this will facilitate people's access to treatment. In addition, critical assessments have been made as to whether this cost reduction of EUR 3 billion will be achieved here or whether this is in any way possible within this timeframe. It is already well known physically that people in the provinces are currently working both as providers and administrators of the municipality's own service to think about its own service production, and there is no desire to provide for this temporary activity on the part of the government. Changes have been made to a few nuances since the consultation, such as the timetable, which in practice makes no difference, at least insofar as the six-month offer has been made to the municipalities to re-incorporate their own services — a terrible administrative work after which it would be exported to the province. Why would we do this? I have learned one new word today, called 'disintegration', and it came from someone other than the opposition. It came from those actors in different provinces who have now carried out far-reaching integration in services, such as family services, where maternity clinics and child protection work closely together in adjacent rooms, so that all those families meet both services. They had a genuine concern today from more than one side of Finland that these services will now be broken down if and when the child health clinics are put there by individual social welfare centres or public health centres, but the companies' world and child welfare activities must still be there, thank God, on the public side. This proposal that this should have something to do with EU competition law will now come into force, since these things must be incorporated. So far there has been no need, there has been no need in Sweden, but once they have been incorporated, they will be in the context of EU competition law. When the issue of treatment guarantees was discussed here in the daytime, yes, we now have a treatment guarantee in primary health care to get in touch with, but there is no treatment guarantee to get treatment in primary health care. The Social Democrats are suggesting that this should also be dealt with. On the side of special medical care, there are the prescribed number of months when treatment should also be provided. It is still unclear what these experiments can lead to if this law comes into force before the assessments of these experiments can be made. This still leaves the question mark as to why municipalities are completely separated from this, why municipalities cannot be in the joint companies that provide these services, or in their own companies or directly from the municipality. Why does this issue of consumer protection not seem to be in any debate — or I have not found it here in the law? And then, of course, there is this big role for consumers, which is related to the fact that the consumer is now the one who also supervises and evaluates his own freedom of choice, where the service provider goes, and then looks at the tax information on whether this is now such a company that has followed better Finnish tax practices, or whether this is a company that has been a little less in line with those tax practices. It is good, of course, that there is a section here too, but if you go into this world, why not do it as well as possible? It's strange that this time, too, it's not enough. But I also think that the fact that the responsibility lies there for a municipal person or for a citizen to find out about it sounds rather strange, as someone here today has said. Many questions are still open, and the more I have listened to them in committee, the more I am unfortunately becoming concerned about this system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u322	Mr President! To follow up on the previous speech, with reference to this package of social security legislation and the package of freedom of choice, I would like to say a few things. First of all, this competition, the fact that large companies are being allowed to compete for the provision of social and health services throughout Finland, is a huge change in European Community law. There is such legislation and rules in the European Union that social and health policy is a matter for each Member State to decide without any further explanation. But now that the market is opened, when the bottle spirit is let go, you'll never get it back. After that, we will be subject to European competition law in these matters and then it will be competed, no matter how much it costs. And when I did not memorize those figures in recent speeches, I dug up this statistics from my file. The statistics are the share of the gross domestic product of healthcare expenditure in OECD countries between 90 and 2013 and the changes in shares are in percentage points and percentages. So this is OECD statistics, and Sweden and Denmark are good comparator countries for Finland. Norway may not be worth mentioning; its gross domestic product is so fierce that even a small percentage is doing a good job. The GDP share of spending on social welfare and health care in Sweden in 2013 — unfortunately, no more recent statistics were found with my computer skills — 11 per cent evenly. It had changed by 3.6 per cent from 2000 to 2013, i.e. it had grown by just under one third. In Denmark, the percentage was 10.4 and the change had been 2.3 percentage points over 13 to 14 years. Finland's GDP share of healthcare expenditure was 8.6 per cent, or roughly 2 percentage points lower than in Sweden and Denmark, and our change was only 1.9 per cent over the 13 to 14 years. In other words, this statistics is harshly telling us that we do not have a crisis. Our expenses have not run away. This is a bit like the expenditure of the Finnish army, that this system used by the Finnish army is very efficient and economical. The same applies to our health care. I am not opposed to reforms when I was about to adopt the Siu Sote procedure in North Karelia. It was supported by all the municipalities in Northern Karelia. That is what we, as a joint municipal authority and within the framework of the Treaty, have been doing this year. There is a clear trend there too, Minister, who is taking services towards Joensuu, certainly. Our mayor has already negotiated many times with Siu's social welfare executives that now do not take everything away from us. It's a pretty clear trend. Whoever denies it will deny the facts. I can no longer believe that anyone takes the interests of our small communities seriously in this country anymore. That hurts my heart the most, because that little person's position should be the number one thing. I haven't been worried about those millionaires and the rich, because they've always been able to handle their business. I'm not jealous of them, I'm glad they're in Finland, but who's going to take care of that poor people, families with children, elderly people? It's the one that's the big one. And this OECD statistics, which I have just witnessed, is hard to tell, this is absolutely true. And I would like to see a little familiarity with these in the Ministry. I am a little disappointed that in this Chamber these socialists are not now showing up, even though I feel that it is the best system in the world. There's a lot of people shaking their hands in their pants pocket so hard that the seam is squeezing. I have not dared to do it when my pants are expensive, it is better to say by mouth, and I will not be bitter. At the time of the start of the process, there were two starting points: local services in all municipalities are secured by a reasonable cost burden. That was the objective, and I am still very much in favour of it. In many municipalities we have had a taste of what is the price of medical services for international companies — even in North Karelia. Even in my own municipality of Ilomants, I have had to find out about a company, not to say the name for reasons of discretion. It has been raw money, even so much that doctors who are officials have found this to be true, that when a practicing doctor receives thousands of euros more a month’s salary, it has been their basis, then if you don’t pay any more, then they too will leave or then go to the medical company. Does anyone still believe that these transnational companies have what is called a social conscience toward local people? If I am wrong, then I ask you to correct me, after which I am ready to apologize for my words. These examples of what we have received from medical companies throughout North Karelia tell us the same language. It's a harsh truth. It's money that's been systematic, like I said. When you look at the plans of these medical companies that are currently under way, I know that two new hospital projects are currently under way in Joensuu, for example. This is real. This is real. I just checked the information I got that I don't speak soft. When these two hospitals are building hospitals there, who imagines that the cost will be reduced? I mean, somebody's paying for the real estate at the hospital they're building. If we close the Ilomants health center, I don't know, but somebody's gonna pay. I would like to see a more in-depth approach to these real estate issues, because there are millions of people in the municipality of residence who have been placed in a health centre and I know that, after 2021, the future of this building will be a blur. Then, from the services of the elderly: In my municipality of residence, elderly services have been managed and changed as the number of older people has increased. Young people when you've moved out, we've had to do well with the elderly and we've done well. But if we go into the procedure that many provinces have gone into, that elderly services are being competitive, and when a person becomes weak enough, that he is forced to be taken to an institution for health reasons for the last few years, according to statistics, those last two years in a person’s life are the most expensive years in terms of social welfare and health care costs. If, then, a person goes from my municipality of Ilomants to some other part of the province for strange conditions, is that the right reward for life’s work? I don't think so. Where is the humanity of this system? Who speaks for the little person there who would like to spend his days of old age in his native region and then enter churchland after a long life? That's what I'm still screaming for. Although there is no more audience, I carry that grief in my heart every day. Where's humanity? That's all I want to know. If we go to these supranational corporations to get that humanity, then at least the address is a bit wrong. I have experienced it with my own eyes and seen it. I don't believe in any more rumors or big promises. These promises do not provide care for the elderly, but the municipality has been able to do so. Our home service works, and the person is kept at home for so long that at best five different nurses visit the same elderly person during the day that he can stay in his own home for as long as possible. It's the same fate I wish for myself if there are days. Finally, Mr President, from the point of view of the national economy, I regard social welfare reform as a risk, and that is why I have said that these must be thoroughly investigated in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as well as in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the treatment of municipal property in this case and this municipal self-government, which was written well in Ståhlberg in the Finnish Constitution. Unfortunately, it remained unwritten by the regional government. Unfortunately, it remained unwritten as if it should have been written, but now we are testing what will then be done to that provincial government. But in any case, I will take a calm look at these opinions of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is something we are going to go through very carefully and calmly, as we have already discussed. But even so, I reserve the reservation that I will see what happens with this matter. I will never accept the fact that large multinationals will be able to get raw money and that our citizens' money will go to the stale investors' laurels in the world. After all, we have seen in this house in recent years how these supranational investors have succeeded. Then, when the porridge goes back to the bottom, another couple of billions of dollars will be paid from there, so that you don’t help a little bit of this poor man who lost his money on the stock market. It seems to me to be the wrong way, and it does not fit my conscience, then nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u323	Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u324	Mr President! Some comments on the debate throughout the day. There have been quite a few speeches comparing Finland and Sweden and using Swedish freedom of choice as a warning example. Of course we must learn, but we must also remember the Swedish starting point. They sought to dismantle the queues, and they already left the way that the model that they will implement will cost more than we will ever be able to pay. There's been an increase in spending. At the moment, Sweden is very interested in how we implement so-te integration when they have a situation in which social care is provided by municipalities and health care in rural areas. Sweden had a slightly different starting point. Secondly, several speakers have, during the day, mirrored the proposal before us against the original objectives. That's what we have to do. The reduction of health inequalities, so-called integration, and the fact that we are reducing expenditure growth – against these big goals – must also be assessed. There have even been conflicting arguments in several speeches. What do I mean? The same speaker who is calling for integration is seeking another piece of this law — which is now beginning to be debated in Parliament — which would be taking integration further away. Since the consultation, there has been an increase in the obligation to be responsible for integration, that people do not fall into the feet of the service system. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of the province as the organiser, but the service providers also have an obligation. Then there is the concern about the position of SMEs: we have a banknote, a customer voucher, we have a personal budget that will guarantee that SMEs will be involved. But then the question arises as to how small and medium-sized enterprises can be in social centres. For example, by forming a cooperative — the articles make this possible. Now one challenge and the message to the field is that such associations could be created. But for those who are calling for social integration, for those who are calling for integration, I say: for example, there is one point on which the government has tried to find solutions in its proposal, but these are not easy to reconcile. Those who read this law from the point of view of breaking standards will be disappointed. There is quite a lot of control here, there is quite a lot of control here, with regard to the concerns about whether the service providers are equal and who is taking the money out of this. Congressman Harakka asked if you could guarantee that... Equality between service providers is absolutely central to this legislation. This means that, in a situation where listing begins, the public operator must be involved, it must be one of the options — in many areas it is likely to be the only option — to: [SirpaPaateron intermediate call] Then on to this listing, all in all. Listing does not mean listing for the calendar year, i.e. January 1st. From one day to the last day of December, but it is a sliding time. There will not be a situation where there will be one day, when the province will tell you to go in there, but it will come out of that need for service. Public and private persons have the same obligation to make public the number of people on the list of the service provider concerned. It is not tied to whether the operator has a public or private background. This is not, therefore, the time from 1 January to 1 December. The day, but it is running, the 12 months. This is one argument that has been made here, the way a person is locked up for one year. The same person may have been concerned about the cost being run away. Our model does not allow you to apply for Burana in three places during the same day, but our model allows you to change it if you are not satisfied with the service provider. As far as staff are concerned, if I were a county decision-maker, I would set up one company that would allow you not to be pushed around. Then, at the very end of the day, on this disclosure of information. I will ask you again at the end of this evening, let this be a rhetorical question at this stage: what are we doing about preventing aggressive tax planning with information about the staff in Övertötterström Ab's care unit for the elderly? In other words, the government's proposal has been based on the fact that the information is important from the point of view of the information that our tax euros are not being transferred without us knowing where they are going. But I am happy to accept the lighting and, as far as preparation is concerned, will be accepted if the elderly services of Övertötterström Ab help us in our case. But the logic here has been this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u325	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for your clear words. To this very last point, why it is important to know the proportion of human resources and the number of staff: it is one of these numerous indicators that can be used to assess the activities and results of these health groups and also their tax models. As I said in that speech, one form of tax planning is the way in which staff use themselves as a subcontractor in the form of a company, thus avoiding wage taxation. This is a major issue of income conversion and also has to do with this whole thing. As I said, the essential point is that the same criteria already defined in Article 14 of the Tax Procedures Act, which entered into force, are quite easy to transfer as such to social services companies. I believe and trust that this will also be the case in committee, that all the relevant information, of which the number and quality of staff and the proportion of staff expenditure are one,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u326	Mr President! Now that it has become clear that everyone is allowed to tell us how many people they can treat during the year or during the month or whatever the time period, how is it now guaranteed that everyone will receive treatment? If you tell me the maximums, what can be taken there, and if more people come there who needed treatment, and everyone has places full, what will happen then? In the past, however, hospitals and health centers were even taken to aisles.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u327	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u328	Mr President! It's been a strange play. The latest turn of events was seen yesterday when the matter was suddenly withdrawn from the parliamentary agenda. I had hoped that interrupting the proceedings would mean that the government had finally taken the point in the hands of reason and that it would now be buried to enable the registration of control. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen and we have the same bill on our hands as yesterday. This Government bill allows Finns to register ownership through foreign CSDs. The registration of ownership means that instead of the real owner and the beneficiary, the holder of the security is recorded as an intermediary, i.e. an account manager, in practice, for example a bank. The registration of ownership poses problems as it can create long ownership chains in which the actual owner and beneficiary of the security drowns. Governance registration facilitates tax evasion, financial crime and corruption. In addition, transparency and public access are suffering. The reduction in transparency makes it difficult, for example, for journalists and researchers, as well as for tax authorities, police and prosecutors. The present proposal does not allow Finns to register their holdings in Finland but is allowed through foreign CSDs. In other words, the management register is transferred to Finland through the kitchen. To date, direct ownership of shares has been in use in Finland. The shares of Finnish companies have been issued in the Finnish Securities Center, where Finns have owned securities under their own names on the model of direct ownership and publicly available. The EU Directive requires that the CSD market be opened up to competition, so that shares may also be issued in CSDs in other countries in the future. Control registration is widely used in some countries. Finland cannot prevent other countries from offering management registration or regulating foreign CSDs, but we can regulate Finnish investors and Finnish companies and demand direct ownership from them also abroad. The opposition parties in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposed that the bill be rejected and sent back to the preparation process, in which loopholes allowing for the concealment of ownership would be blocked. The bill should be amended so that Finns would be required to have direct ownership of Finnish shares even when securities have been issued elsewhere than in Finland. There should be a clear ban and a sanction on Finnish management registration. The Government says that Finland is obliged to enable Finnish ownership to be registered abroad because of EU regulations. However, Finland has negotiated an exemption for the EU CSD regulation which allows for the preservation of direct ownership. There is no obligation to allow management registration; it is an interpretation of EU rules. As an EEA country, Norway is subject to the same EU regulation as Finland, and Norway interprets EU regulation in such a way that Norwegians are allowed to own Norwegian securities only by direct ownership in the future and also when the ownership is organised through a foreign CSD. The Norwegian interpretation is supported by the reply received from the Commission by the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Kaj Turunen. The purpose of the EU CSD Regulation is not to increase the secrecy of ownership, so Finland has good reasons to interpret the Regulation so that we can maintain a high level of transparency of ownership in the future. It is therefore pointless to hide behind the EU. With claws and teeth, Finland should adhere to the model of direct ownership and wide public publicity. Mr President! This bill is the same as it was a year ago. There has been no change in the management registration. The only thing that has changed in the course of the proceedings is the position of the Finns on the bill. In the past, the Finns opposed the adoption of the law as it was, but now it is good enough. A new statement by the government parties in loud noise yesterday about the increased withholding of tax on unidentifiable Finnish ownership is not enough to solve the problems of the bill. The new statement made yesterday does not even change much of the statements made in the committee's report. The main difference is that withholding tax has turned into withholding tax and that sufficient incentive has changed to 50%. As such, good formulations, but it is ostensibly time to advertise the new statement as a major improvement in relation to the report and its statements. Statements are not sufficient to ensure transparency of ownership. These statements give the government the hope that it will start further preparation for the authorisation of management registration abroad in order to close up the loopholes that give rise to them. The content of the statements is good in itself, but not sufficient. But the real problem is that they are statements and not legal changes. The bill lay in the Committee on Economic Affairs for over a year, but the government parties could not agree on it. During the year's wait, Parliament would have been able to bring in the additional legislative changes required by the statements to plug loopholes in tax evasion and financial crime. The 50% increased withholding of dividend income on management registered and unrecognized ownership would be a step in the right direction, but difficult to implement and incomplete. Anticipation does not guarantee public access or facilitate the fight against financial crime. The loss of tax revenue may be offset, but the loss of tax revenue is only one of the problems brought about by the management registration. Hidden ownership also causes other problems and allows crime and corruption, and these problems will not be solved by this statement. It is also difficult to recover tax withholding if funds are transferred through management registers to a bank account located in tax havens. After a long chain of ownership, it may not be possible to know that the Finnish owner is behind it, so that 50 per cent of the withholding tax is not known and cannot be collected. Furthermore, the withholding of the advance does not apply to the profits from the sale. However, I assume that the increased withholding applies equally to dividends from listed and unlisted companies. It is also difficult to see how the law can guarantee the level of publicity required by the committee's statement 2 if the requirement of direct ownership is now abandoned and ownership can be chained to management registers. The current legal amendment is also threatened by the fact that it may no longer be possible to introduce ex post amendments to the legislation necessary to ensure the transparency of the property of the committee, since the derogation from the EU regulation allows the current state of transparency to be maintained, but when Finland's right of exception is waived, it may not be possible to return to it. For this reason too, the proposal is incomplete and should be reinstated. The legislative changes required by the statements should have been brought before Parliament at the same time as these changes under discussion, in order to enable the whole package to be assessed from the perspective of the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime, public access and transparency as a whole. Mr President! The management registers and the concealment of ownership are a barrier to a healthy and functioning economy. The tax authority does not receive relevant tax revenues, the market does not function properly when the information is not available. The secret makes financial crime possible, the decision-makers' contacts can be hidden, and free media does not have access to ownership information. Finland and the EU should move towards comprehensive transparency of ownership, and the management registers will lead us in the opposite direction. Finland should also require direct ownership of Finns in the future and also through foreign countries. That is why the legislative proposals should be rejected, and I am in favour of a motion for rejection later in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u329	It is intended that the debate should not take place after each of the Members has spoken separately, but at the beginning, when this is being presented or the first speeches are being made at second reading, we will take the floor of several groups and then there will be a longer debate, and then, of course, we will be able to go after the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u330	Mr President! I am sure that we will have enough positions for this second reading, and it is good to go over them. First of all, I would like to present our group's proposal for a statement. In other words, we have considered that the most important and important issues in this report, both in terms of access to information from the tax authorities and also in terms of public access to information, are left to these statements, and they should have been resolved in this draft law itself and then brought here to be decided at the same time. Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had a year to deal with this issue, and this haste and haste in the last few metres is, of course, understandable in the sense that in 2014 this EU regulation entered into force, but this episode between us does not say well about the decision-making capacity of the government and the fact that, [Call for the Cape] "The government requires that the Council of State immediately prepares the necessary changes to national legislation in Finland, whereby tax-payinginvestors,or their domestic and foreign custodians, must report the domestic holdings of suchinvestors,including holdings of suchinvestment companies,to As I said at first reading, it is not so much the form of stock storage at the heart of this issue as the current situation cannot be regarded as ideal that we do not have a leak in this current situation, but rather more important than whether it is a management register or a direct holding of accounts is transparency and information. And with these provisions, with which the government is now taking this proposal forward, transparency and information are not guaranteed. And when it has always been stated in several extracts that we now have this automatic exchange of information at the beginning of 2017, it will certainly make it easier for a small tax collector, but then public publicity and, for example, economic journalism does not make it easier. And perhaps as much as I already explained this background at first reading, this securities market regulation was indeed dealt with during the last period, and I myself have a close relationship with this because at the time this Finland exemption was negotiated there. The government worked there, of course, at the Council's table, and then, at the very last minute in the so-called trilogue, this Finnish line was relegated in such a way that my own assistant negotiated with the assistant of the Austrian rapporteur of the EPP group at the time. In the very last minute, this wording was brought in and made it possible for Finland, if it wanted to, to continue to use only direct accounts. It must be remembered that the situation could be that, at the moment, we would not even discuss this possibility of direct accounts at all, but, indeed, it could have gone so far as to have these management registers in place in such a large number of European countries that it would have been considered that we are going along that line everywhere else. But it would have been rather strange that the good practice in Finland, as Mr Sarkkinen said earlier here... Rather, in such an economic situation, where most European countries are, that every single tax euro is of interest, that good practice should be exported to other countries. This should be taken in this direction by European legislation, but unfortunately the qualified majority and the vision behind this line were not found, but at least we were not given the opportunity to continue with our own practice. In that sense, it is important that we are able to maintain this in Finland. On the other hand, as has been said here in several extracts, however, we cannot leave here to regulate the laws of other countries — it is also important to keep that in mind — but in such a situation let us do the best that can be done. And then, at least, I myself will interpret this rather difficult situation, so to speak, between wood and bark, so that the opportunity for whom it is possible to impose obligations is, above all, an investor. From this point of view, the KD Group's statement is based on the fact that it will at least enable us to know what is owned and where is owned and then guarantee it to the tax authorities as well as to regulate this public access.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u334	Mr President! This is where Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Essayah described very well the aspects which were to be presented and discussed here, but I shall try to sum up what I have to say. It is widely estimated that this government proposal actually contributes to the hiding of shareholders in the protection of foreign management registers. General developments in Europe and Finland should be towards transparency, and in this way this runs counter to this type of social development. [Call for the Cape] Now to these ponies. As long as there is no legislation in place, this cannot be left to them once and for all, and as a criticism that if a bill is brought, then all things must be in the same legislation and not leave them in the air in this way. The source tax issue was then buried and, unfortunately, the withholding of 50% dividends does not, according to our estimates, eliminate all the holes, loopholes, as the saying goes, which will be attached to this. The big pig still goes through this big hole — it concerns sales gains, money laundering risks, insider problems and so on. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been dealing with and consulted by experts for a very long time, this is not what I am saying, but the way in which this matter was finally brought to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on a fast-track basis after the agreements on the Summer Bank does not correspond to the good way in which the committee works and the spirit of the fact that in two days the opposition parties had to take a position on a matter that had been prepared by the government parties together for a long time. It's not a fair way to deal with something this big.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u335	Congressman Raatikainen. — Mr Raatikainen is gone. — Mr Östman, Mr Yanar and then one of the government groups, that is to say Mr Jaskar, may take the floor, and then there may be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u339	Congressman Yanar. — Mr Yanar is gone. — Mr Jaskari. — Then let us also give the floor to the representative of the Centre Group when he appears to be next.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u340	Mr President! Indeed, there has been a great deal of information about this, not only on the responsibility of the administration, but also on the different aspects of the information and arguments that have taken place with regard to this management register. The first fact, the fact, is that there will be no control register in Finland. [Call for the Cape] Another thing that has been cleared up by officials is that Finland cannot prevent other EU countries from using the management register. In my view, this is clearly the wrong argument that Finland is going in a different direction than the EU countries, because Finland has for years, for example, the last time in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy 2014, expressed a serious wish for us to be able to create an open book-entry system for the whole of the EU. But certain EU countries did not. I believe that, at least here in Parliament, the basic objective for all of us is to have access to an open system in all EU countries, and preferably in all countries, because those who genuinely want to circumvent this and want to hide their income, their dividends, are likely to move outside the EU. Now, however, we wanted to make a system whereby non-direct ownership would be very expensive, in fact very absurd, if we still wanted to cover up the dividends that are here. There is also a clear desire to act fairly on the tax side. Now this automatic information exchange system is coming up, and Finland is one of the first to enter it, and it is already high risk of being caught if you do not declare your dividend income, because you can ask it centrally — no longer have to go to the individual countries — whether such a person, such a company in another EU country, is also receiving returns. If you have not notified and you are caught by this, you will also have increased charges, and if there have been many years of this matter, there will also be criminal sanctions. That's a pretty strong obstacle to really wanting to hide. And then there is the desire to make a second lock on the fact that there would be advance recovery if the final owner were not found out. In any case, the aim is to secure the tax revenues of the State through this route. I think we have done as much as possible to ensure that open book-entry systems are in place. In my opinion, it is very important that in future we consider that the whole of Europe will have the same kind of system. Therefore, in these last negotiations, it was even more desirable to safeguard the existence of State tax revenues. So we wanted to replace the 1st statement in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which focused on the issue of withholding tax, and it was said that withholding tax must be sufficiently supportive to maintain these objectives of transparency. Now we wanted to make the following statement, which is also on your tables. In other words, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy contains 1. Instead of making a statement, I would like to make a new, replacement statement as a 1st statement: "The Council of State shall, without delay, be called upon to prepare legislation enabling the tax In order to achieve this, a provision should be added to the Advance Recovery Act, according to which 50% of the dividends received by an unidentified taxable person resident in Finland must be withheld."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u341	Madam President! At the outset, I support the statement made by Mr Jaskar. It's been a long process. We had Mr Pekkarinen as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs in 12 years when we first dealt with this issue. It was then that a statement was made on what Mr Essayah said. After that, the matter came in 14, whether it was September, for us as a regulation. This became one version since 15 C.E., which was returned to the Board of Directors. And now, a year ago, I think it was towards the end of March, this proposal came to us in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I can accept the criticism of this opposition that this issue has been pushed forward in a slightly different way and with a little sturdiness and a little thought about these different aspects of what is there, if not every day, but every week at least. This has been quite a complex issue, on the one hand, with regard to its EU requirement, i.e. we must comply with the regulation and introduce it, and, in order to obtain our CSD's authorisation, this issue should be dealt with pretty soon so that by the end of September we can obtain their authorisation for Euroclear Finland. On the other hand, there are already small sanctions against the EU if we do not introduce this secondary legislation. The process has probably been the longest for our government, and it will probably accept this criticism, and perhaps it is also ours to take. But we've tried everything we can. Now, in this final proposal, the application for this closure of potential loopholes is made through a prior arrest procedure, even more so than from the point of view of withholding tax. Of course, it has not been completely excluded that the withholding tax will still be examined and the process involved. This is where Mr Ihalainen said that the big pigs are going through this hole, but I would say to Mr Ihalainen that the big pigs are not going to Europe, but they are probably looking for opportunities for those black investments elsewhere, that is, through the US to other neighbouring countries. So now we are dealing with investments and opportunities in the EEA. That is a big problem, and the government is working hard on the way in which this tax evasion can be reduced and made available to the economies and services of the European governments. There were good speeches at the beginning, but there has been a great deal of confusion about these issues in the past, and the old format from 15 has still been evaluated, at least in the media and here in a few quarters. This proposal now corrects the 15th proposal, which is what is now under discussion at the beginning of the 16th year, which is already a considerable improvement. Then, indeed, these views: We are in a complex situation. In Europe, these management registers are common, and there is actually this flagging rule the only public publicity that is used, that is to say, if 5% of the ownership is waved either in the economy or elsewhere, it is the only public side in many European countries. In other words, hard work was done back in 12 C.E. to get this more open Finnish system, but that is what has now been achieved, and we now have to go along with this in the European picture. There are good things and bad things. In other words, the biggest change in this change is that Finnish companies can open up and open their own shares in a book-entry centre other than the Finnish book-entry centre. None of them have yet done so, even if it had been possible, and it is not known that any public limited liability company has yet exercised this right of choice. Mr President! With these words, I support Mr Jaskar's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to have a debate on this issue. I would ask you to register by making a request for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u343	Madam President! This is where Mr Jaskari and Mr Pirttilahti brought the correct facts and did well to explain the way in which this has been faced with a difficult situation, on the one hand, with the attempt to pass this European Securities Regulation and, on the other hand, with the possibility of using the exception and, above all, starting from the premise that the taxpayer and the open public need their own information. But the criticism is that these important steps were then left to the statements in the report — and, I might say, to begin with, a few still poorly worded statements. Why were these issues not prepared during the year that matter stood in the Committee on Economic Affairs? This is at least the point of my own criticism. For God's sake, if these things had been prepared and brought here in the course of that year, they would be in a different situation. In my opinion, the government cannot defend itself in any way; this is poorly dealt with in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u344	Mr President! I think Mr Essayah’s criticism is right. This would have been, of course, a time to prepare the content of this statement, a legislative proposal, a government proposal. What I want to say above all, I think that the speeches made by the Left Alliance in particular, but also by the Social Democrats, contain such a strange idea to our legal system that we could impose an act which has been permitted in a country on a Finnish citizen if he does so abroad where it is permitted. It just can't be done. We have a requirement of double criminality, which means that the act should also be punishable there in the country of the offence. Separately, there are international crimes, but this was far from a crime of that kind. And this is the problem. The second point I would like to make is that if almost all the other European countries, the Union countries, also have a management register, either as an exclusive or a parallel system, for direct ownership, can it be estimated that somehow this Finnish model would be the one that is going to spread? I just don't believe it — unfortunately, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u345	Mr President! I can agree with Mr Essayah's assessment that this process cannot be divided into very high stylistic points. Firstly, the fact that the government parties, as it were behind the back of the opposition, are preparing a report behind the back of the committee, and it is only at the last minute, does not respect open parliamentaryism, open democracy, in no way. Nor is it that, in fact, such as the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, who is not here today, — By the way, there are not too many representatives of the Finnish police who had asked to speak here. By the way, where are they? Soon we will be able to read their comments to the media here — has admitted that this was decided at the Summer Beach. Of course, hope came when, according to the new leader of the group of Finns, Kaleva, said on 4.5. that he would return the management register to the new preparation — the new preparation. Now the situation is that last week the Finns of Peru are calling for this law to be reinstated, and today they are likely to announce here that they will adopt this law without any change,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u346	Mr President! Indeed, we will accept this report, but last Thursday, when I became elected chairman of the group, I got this in my hands and then on Friday I held negotiations and told our group about it. The group did not accept this whole package, which is why these statements were too soft, and that is why I went on to negotiate them on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday. And then yesterday I finally negotiated with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance and I reached a decision that a new ponies statement was made to replace the first one, and that is now in this division. Today, with experts — with top experts — I have yet to go through it and they say that this is the best model available in this context. And there is also the fact that I took the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in writing that this matter should be dealt with. But we cannot afford to move this matter forward, to accept it, because the deadlines are at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u347	Madam President! There is really no time for any new round of preparations on this issue. This is based on the 2014 EU regulation and precisely so that we were in a bit of a hurry to do this. There have been so many interests involved here that it is clear that such an issue will be the subject of delicious headlines for the tabloids. The most important thing in this respect, in my opinion, was that the government acted in a consistent manner on this issue, gave clear rules and also sanctions for the fact that if someone did wrong, then a higher tax would be paid. There are quite clearly two important issues in this decision. The second is that it contains both stick and carrot, and also a clear message from Parliament to the people who invest in this kind of investment, that it is worthwhile to act honestly, pay their taxes on time and act according to our system. In the European Union, just as Mr Salmon said well in his own speech, we cannot go and legislate and we cannot criminalise if anyone wants to take their money to France or Belgium, for example, into funds, it is perfectly legal. We can't influence that, but we can do our own job well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u348	Mr President! The Commission’s response to Turuse says that Finland can target Finnish investors and companies. By targeting requirements for investors and companies, direct ownership requirements can also be maintained abroad. Under the EU Regulation, CSDs are required to provide both collective customer separation and individual customer separation. CSDs shall, upon request, provide for a detailed separation of client accounts. In some countries, even an individual customer-separated account may be entered in the intermediary’s name rather than directly in the beneficiary’s account. However, individual accounts must be provided everywhere, and Finnish companies may be required to use them in such a way that the account is directly in the name of the beneficiary when it is provided in any case. I believe that this will be possible in most CSDs when the customer requests it, so the requirement for this direct ownership is unlikely to significantly limit the choice of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u349	Mr President! I would like to say that, first of all, the correspondence referred to here was not very clear between the representative of the Commission and the chairman of the Economic Committee. It is quite different whether we can regulate a Finnish investor. Of course we can, and that's what we're doing now. As has been said here in many speeches, the government is about to regulate the investor, but it is quite another matter to impose penalties on what has been demanded, in some way to make it a crime if you use this management register, for example, in Sweden. Then two things that have often been mixed up here are public access to the public and public authorities. In this proposal, I do not think there are any bigger problems in terms of public relations. The public publicity is, of course, that if you go abroad, the Finnish press will not be allowed to know about those investments. But there are much easier ways to hide than to go abroad to use the management register. If someone really wants to hide by setting up a limited liability company in Estonia that buys those shares, no one in Finland can know that in terms of public access. That is why we are now exaggerating this proposal to create some major flows. I don't believe it. I think this proposal is all in all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u350	Mr President! The Government stresses that hard work has been done and results have been obtained. I do disagree quite a bit about this. In my opinion, these efforts and this model are actually a pretty lousy performance. When you constantly plead this responsibility, what is that responsibility? Is that the opinion of two officials or one or five officials? Ultimately, it is a question of European law, and that is what we disagree with and will be how Finland interprets EU law. It is ultimately interpreted by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Coalition Party, you have constantly called for this to affect the acquisition of capital by Finnish companies. That has not been the case before, and it is not the case now. The Finnish stock management register has been allowed for foreigners and will continue to be, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u351	Madam President! Here comes the debate on the interpretation of the Commission's letter, for example. We really did find out very much about it. In this regard, Mr Skinner spoke of responsibility for office, but officials from both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice were in the interpretation that this was the best we could get. I wonder what we could interpret if officials and experts from both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance think that this was the most important thing we can get by just making such a decision, what has been done here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u352	Mr President! This is a very big question of principles, transparency, publicity, and there is also a great deal to be said about practical issues. So that means that this model, which the government has chosen, will allow tax evasion, it will allow money laundering, it will make it possible to conceal ownership. As Minister of Finance, I was dealing with this issue when the management registration was transferred to me from Minister Vapaavuori at the time. At the time, I was told by officials that it was necessary to introduce management registration in Finland under the EU regulation. When we looked into it, we found out we didn't have to. In my opinion, it is entirely possible — I am speaking as a lawyer — to impose a clear ban on the registration of Finnish operators. There is nothing to prevent Finns from doing that. It ensures that these negative black economy phenomena do not materialise through management registration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u353	Mr President! Indeed, the issue here is whether Finnish companies can issue shares in a foreign book-entry system and whether Finnish companies can subscribe to them from there. The Regulation clearly states that the issuer has the right to choose the CSD that he uses from CSDs approved in the European Union. What is the matter with this derogation from Finland? This is one question. The other is whether Finland can go against the European Union regulation. I asked Kare Halos, who is the head of the EU unit, whether Finland has ever been able to fail to implement the EU regulation in Finland during these 26 years: not once. I asked another question to six lawyers: what is the Finnish derogation about, what is it about? The answer was unambiguous. To the extent that a Finnish company issues shares in a Finnish book-entry system, their subscription here in Finland must be made to a public book-entry account, i.e. an open book-entry account,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u354	President! Representative Salmon said that he does not believe that Europe is taking the Finnish line. Here perhaps there is a fundamental difference between the government and the left-wing opposition, because Europe is already on the path of openness. A significant turnaround has taken place here, which was in fact the first sign of the 2014 CSD Regulation. This does not mean that when, as Mr Sarkkinen said, other parts of Europe were added to this publicity and direct ownership, Finland would have to reduce it. This is entirely your own invention and, as Mr Rinne said, the interpretations of the Ministry of Finance have changed during the period of official responsibility. But to go into this miserable effort, there are two questions: What if we don't distribute the dividend, does this withholding apply to those sales profit situations? How to ensure public access and not just to tax authorities? And thirdly: how long do you think it will take for these efforts to come into force when this CSD Regulation is in force? How long is this gonna last?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u355	Mr President! What I meant was that Europe is going in which direction if it is assessed from the point of view of the systems: the model of direct ownership or the management registration model. This regulation lays the foundations for it. This is a fairly recent regulation and is not exporting the model of direct ownership to Europe. Of course, transparency is increasing, but it has been seen here that the problem is precisely that a management register could be used. As Mr Rinne said, he felt that the government's proposal would increase the shadow economy and tax evasion, and what else was there, money laundering. What would add to that? Is it that a Finn can go abroad and use a legal management register there? So are the Swedes, who use it quite a bit, or are the French or the Germans all money launderers or the black economy? I don't think so. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: No one's ever said that! Has anyone told you that? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u356	Madam President! With regard to this proposal for a statement, which has now been made: Yes, I'm sure there's some integrity here. But if this government had wanted to convince the opposition that this Parliament now requires something — Parliament requires this statement that the Council of State should begin to prepare without delay. And then what? It may be that next week we will start preparing, but I would have liked to have such a statement for a limited time, where this preparation should come from, so that the government could have made decisions and brought them here to Parliament so that we could have known some date, because this preparation really is ready. I therefore hope that the group president, Mr Kangasniemi, will hold these debates for a few more weekends, so that we do not need to jerk this up, but that there will be some facts about these days, because this proposal for a statement may indeed turn into meat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u357	Madam President! I have a paper signed by Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo, and this says that the Government commits to submitting a Government proposal to Parliament without delay, but no later than June 2017, by the end of next month. Its officials said that the sooner they could not achieve it, because there was an opinion procedure, a possible review of the evaluation council and so on. In this context, I would just like to say that, when I explained whether the opposition could act as it did in its protest, in other words, to implement the provisions of the EU regulation and then to implement all these principles that you want for this, the expert opinion was that under no circumstances. You're on the wrong road. You're on the wrong road. You're on the populist road.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u360	Mr President! I was then active as a minister when, on the initiative of the Greens and the Left Alliance and also in cooperation with the SDP, the government decided that Finland wanted to protect our openness policy. Even then, there were those countries that wanted to make use of the preparation of the EU securities regulation to make it possible for Finns to use the management register. It was a political goal, but there was nothing to be done about it. When we were able to negotiate in Brussels this possibility for Finland to maintain open practice, it was clear that the objective of this regulation was to improve the practice of those countries which had this veil of secrecy even wider, but when we negotiated this exception, we also have the right to continue it, and it also applies to the management registers abroad. Now here is the risk that when the government opens a management registration abroad for Finnish investors, someone may appeal to the EU Court of Justice and ask whether Finns who cannot use it in Finland are now being treated unfairly. There is a risk that this will weaken the derogation that Finland clearly received and jeopardise its continuity
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u361	Mr President! Just as Mr Niinistö said there, it is possible to impose in Finland a ban on Finnish operators to use the management register other than directly owned. This is therefore a perfectly clear Finnish decision as to how we want to do it, and this is precisely what makes it clear that if a Finnish currently illegally invests in a management register or uses a management registration, it will now become a legal measure. This will lead to the pressure that should also be allowed to register in Finland. That is why this will allow money laundering, it will allow tax evasion and it will make it possible to hide property. The very important principle in Finland has been that ownership is transparent, that we know what is happening here. It is therefore a very serious mistake to make such a proposal for a management registration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u362	Mr President! Even if you try to look at this in a non-political way, you still have to say that I think it is a pretty serious argument to say that Finland could impose, as approved by this regulation, that a Finnish company cannot use a foreign book-entry system when it has a management register. This possibility has been stated in the regulation, and all the Finnish legal scholars to whom this statement was requested felt that the Finnish exception does not apply to that point, but only to the point where it is stated that the shares issued in Finland must always be recorded in the Finnish book-entry system on an individual, i.e. a personal book-entry account. This is clearly defined in the opinion of each of the legal scholars to whom the opinion was sought. This applies to events in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u363	Mr President! I am surprised, however, that the Commission's position on this issue is so strong that it needs to be followed closely. Why do you not do the same for the social committee, among other things, on labour market support? — This has now gone a little further. But when we talk about this matter, it is only so that, when we are flexing, in the control register the pigs run back and forth and, for example, through London. And if this really goes through, what will happen to our withholding tax? That's a big question. If a Finn invests in a management register abroad, it makes tax evasion possible, and then it means that tax euros do not come here. It also allows money laundering and provides a good hiding place for property. I do not understand why you do not want to return, discharge these tax money into this country and help with this country's affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u364	Madam President! I could not agree more than what Mr Pekkarinen said very clearly about this way of thinking. But think now, for example: a Finnish company is setting up a factory in Germany and wants to raise capital there — now you think that this could not be possible. And just like the representative. The salmon said, the easiest thing in the world is to set up a company in Sweden or Estonia and thus be subject to the legislation of that country. But we really want to prevent that situation: if dividends are received, then we have to find the ultimate dividend recipient, and if not, then there will be advance collection, 50 %. We wanted to do this so that the Finnish State would receive tax revenue. It's the best we can get right now. I think it's pretty good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u365	Mr President! So the question here is how a Finnish can own those shares that are issued by a Finnish company.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u369	Mr President! I had to get up. Finland can place it in a company operating in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u372	But it does not happen that a Finnish company is moving abroad and is owned by a Finnish company through a management register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u373	Madam President! Indeed, this interpretation of the EU regulation is now at the heart of the matter. And this regulation clearly states that the issuer of the security has the right to choose the CSD that he uses from CSDs approved in the European Union. In that sense, I share Mr Pekkarinen's view of this interpretation. After all, some people in Finland have argued that it could be thought that it would then then be the responsibility of its foreign CSD to provide both forms of management. I do think that this is a rather long-stretched interpretation of the so-called Finland exception. I wouldn't dare build on it myself. But what I blame the government for is precisely this: these sanctions against investors and foreign and domestic custodians, and these, if you could say so, blackmails and, in a way, that demand for publicity should have been brought here at the same time as this regulation. Then we would be in the right position. In that sense, that is what this accusation against the government is directed at, investors and custodians, we can regulate here in Finland. It has these negatives for the government, which should have been brought at the same time. But I share this interpretation with Pekkarinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u374	Mr President! Admittedly, this is a complex matter, and this bill has been running for many years. But if I have understood correctly, under the Securities Regulation in EU countries these other CSDs are also obliged to provide both forms of ownership,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u380	Madam President! Indeed, we can give additional obligations to the investor and the custodian, but I know that there were even those in the committee who left the idea that we could suddenly oblige central securities depositories operating foreign management registers to provide both forms of governance in which they did not exist in their lifetime. In my opinion, it really goes a long way, and I do not think that anyone has interpreted it in this way in those countries — or at least it would have given rise to a reasonable debate when this EU regulation was being enacted, if in fact in these countries, which have only a management register, they should have suddenly been able to distinguish these account-specific ones. I know there are these interpretations in Finland too, but what I think is absolutely clear and certain is precisely this requirement for investors and custodians to tell both in terms of the information of the tax payer and also in terms of public access to information, and here comes the stick to the government. I should have done this better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u381	Madam President! Representative Niinistö said that we disagree, and he continued that we believe that Finnish ownership abroad can be banned, and this was a pretty strong interpretation of that point of view. As we tried to tell you, when a company is set up, a Finnish investor will set up a company even in Sweden or Estonia, then it will be under the Swedish or Estonian legal system, and it will operate there and according to their rules. If they have both direct ownership, as is the case in Sweden, and a management register, as is the case in Sweden, they can then raise capital in that country, even through management registration investments. The question then arises that if there are dividends for domestic owners, that Finland must know that these dividends are paid here, then we will receive taxes from it. This is practically how it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u382	Madam President! There are about 130 listed companies in Finland and half of them are currently investing abroad. They also come through management registers, so where does the money come from? There was another strong argument here that the grey economy and others would be very active, but I think that what has come up, for example, this automatic exchange of tax information, which begins now in the autumn – we are primarily involved in it – will improve the situation. For example, our international agreements will improve this very public service, such as access to police and these information, and there we will have EU regulation and access to legal aid, through which these criminals can be hunted, so to speak. A lot of things are going for the better. One more thing: In fact, when we are in this stage of life, when the efforts are now in our hands, and the Minister of Finance has personally promised here in the first debate that things will be moving forward, and then we will have a written proposal from Mr Kankaanniemi on this, that we can make them go forward, then we will have to settle for this schedule now, because September will come so quickly that we will not have a chance for that CSD in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u383	Mr President! One of the objectives of the EU CSD Regulation was to increase public access and transparency in Europe in general. In many other countries publicity has been much behind Finland. The EU Regulation also requires CSDs to provide individual, customer-separated accounts if the customer so requests and otherwise increases transparency in many countries in relation to the current situation. However, in Finland, where transparency has been advanced, there is a risk of weakening if this is interpreted as the government interprets this proposal, but this was hardly the purpose of the EU regulation and EU regulation. We cannot regulate foreign CSDs, but we can regulate Finnish investors. This can also be found in the Commission’s replies. There are clearly different interpretations of this EU regulation and, as has been said, the interpretations of civil servants have changed. The final interpretation will then, of course, come from the European Court of Justice. But in reply to the Kankaanime: the interpretation of the opposition is currently the same as that of the Finns of Peru until a few months ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u384	Mr President! That is the problem here, when last week the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, came here to declare that this issue of withholding tax is still in preparation — an official decision, as I recall, and a document that it is being prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u387	Mr President! I haven't turned my coat. We have had a debate on this and the chairman of the committee has expressed his views on the basis of what information has been received. This is a difficult thing for all of us, I must admit. The EU regulation is bad. Why is that? The previous government has been involved in doing so. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u391	Mr President! Oh, Kankaanniemi, so the interpretation that when the jacket turns first the other way and then the other way back, it is not turning the jacket when it is finally in the same position. First you drove this, then you announced that this should be put back in preparation. Now you confirmed that you tried to get this re-prepared, but you didn't. And once again you turned the jacket, came back here and said that this cannot be put into new preparation, but that must now be accepted. Mr Kankaanniemi, I will make you an offer, a motion: let us now vote this law out together. I am firmly convinced that the government will then be forced to prepare, among other things, this effort and all the other things that are needed to do this in order to get the grey economy, insider crime and, for example, the taxation of profits. Can't we do this now? This is the way in which your request for last week can be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u392	Mr President! 2.5. The Minister for Finance, Orpo, has promised that these other points will also be addressed and even EU regulations will be put into what Finland wants them to be. By the way, there is a directive in the EU on the publicity of company ownership, and it will remove this whole problem from us when it comes, and hopefully it will come as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me now that I have this authentic signed paper which has been committed by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance: that this tax system will be brought here to Parliament this spring. This is a strong wedgeboard: if you do not publicise your ownership to the tax authority, you will pay 50 per cent of your taxes to the Finnish government, if you do, you will get 25.5%. The difference is so significant that this is definitely biting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u393	Madam President! I am now disturbed by the government's whole issue of this kind of grey policy and law handling. If you think about it: a draft law is now being prepared to prevent money laundering and it is in the form of an opinion, and the important role of the law is to report the participation of companies and entities in the beneficiary register. In 2016, the Commission has proposed that the notification obligation for the threshold of ownership or voting rights should fall to 10 %. What do the government parties represent? They say it's 25%. Keep the threshold high enough to avoid tax evasion and not to be reported. The same applies to the management register. This will create opportunities for tax avoidance and enable companies to engage in the informal economy and other financial crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u394	Madam President! However, it is worth remembering — as the representative did In his own speech, the Kankaanniemi showed us and read us the paper stating that this matter will be put in order by the end of June — that it is in preparation, and that it is onion. In the European Union, the same directive applies to 27 Member States, so it is clear that we will not be able to squeeze everything into just one package. It is important to note here, as many speakers have said, that this is how it has been, for example, an excellent speech from Mrs Essayah. Now, after this, we're pretty much packed up and everything's fine. I find it a little cheap what Mr Lindtman said about the turn of the coat, for example. When I looked at your activities in this house at the end of the last parliamentary term, I guess there were so many turns in my coat that I at least lost track of the chapter. Even though after my knee surgery on sick leave, I was allowed to keep a record, the books went crazy 57. After the turn of the coat. So don't talk to me about the turn of the coat. But as far as this is concerned, this is a good thing, and that is where we go. Remember, however, that in an open European market we need to give ourselves a reliable picture. If we give a bad picture of ourselves to the world, who's going to invest here? And that's the bigger problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u395	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, I do want to correct this misunderstanding. In any case, I am not accusing you of turning your coat on this management register issue. No, on the contrary, it has become clear that the centre is a powerful advocate of this law, which makes it possible to hide property. The Centre has even, by way of exception, put a Vice-President here in the Chamber to discuss the matter. But, Congressman Kankaanniemi, what's the value of that paper? I have an estimate for that. This is pretty crazy: If you have a criminal mind and you want to keep the money for yourself, you do it. If you get caught, you can, you'll pay a little more tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u399	Mr President! Surely we all want to eradicate the shadow economy, money laundering and all sorts of other criminal activities. I believe that we all want maximum public access and full public access. This package of government proposals has been drawn up in such a way that it can be implemented as widely as possible. If I have understood correctly, the difference is how we treat a Finnish investor who goes abroad to invest. This was also the case when the Constitutional Committee issued an opinion on this particular government proposal. There I specifically asked whether we could ban a Finnish investor from investing in those countries where the management register is exclusively used, or whether we could impose a penalty. Both had a clear answer in the expert hearings: we cannot. Our legislative powers on the criminal law side do not extend there to regulate. We can impose sanctions if we do not know there, and that is exactly what we are doing here. Among other things, Professor Päivi...—sorry,remembered,but emerges from the opinions of the Constitutional Committee—this is clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u400	Mr President! I did not get the answer to my question, which was the assessment of how long this big pig, mentioned by Mr Ihalainen, would be open when suddenly, in such a terrible hurry, you want this regulation to enter into force and then you will replace it afterwards. Yes, it does show a rather low level of self-confidence and in-government confidence that you have to sign autographs correctly, that otherwise you do not trust each other's word. I'm sure it's been right here. But would it not really make sense that, now that there are these two things, the two components that are related, then they should be brought into force at the same time? Then one simple question: If the ownership hides in the management register, with what lynx is it known that it is a resident of Finland, an unidentified taxable person? If it is hidden there in any case, with what lynx will the tax authority know that it is Finnish? All cats are black in the dark and cannot be regulated by legislation that only applies to striped cats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u401	Mr President! As Mr Essayah has strongly demonstrated here, no matter how much we wish in Parliament, we cannot legislate on foreign CSDs, so this possible tax evasion must be tackled by quite different means. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Turunen, along with other Finns, has rightly demanded a sufficiently high tax rate for taxable dividend recipients who remain unidentified in Finland, and this will be achieved in the future as a 50% withholding tax in line with the draft statement. As Mr Kankaanniemi said, this 50% is high enough compared to the effective dividend tax rate, which is now 28.9%. This makes the use of the management register even more unprofitable, in addition to the fact that automatic exchange of information will significantly increase public authorities' access to information and thereby increase the risk of tax evaders being caught.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u402	Mr President! I would like to ask you, Mr Jaskari, whether you are now confused about the issue of shares, the issue of shares and the ownership and management registration of shares. Do you understand the difference between them when you talk about raising capital? Answer me this question. And to Mr Pekkarinen, I would say that when we were discussing here last week, we were quite in agreement on a number of points. We also almost agreed on what this European regulation means when we talked about the fact that there will also be a model of direct ownership in the future of the EU. I myself explained how the EU authorities have already expressed the hope that in 2018 the model of direct ownership would be in use in the European Union, so this is the core of the poodle. But, Mr. Jaskari, answer me: Are you talking about the issue of the stock or ownership?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u403	Madam President! I was talking about the fact that Finnish investors also have the right to start companies in some other countries. And then, of course, you can ask Mr Skinner: do you think that there is a right to set up companies in other countries, which also raise capital through having investors through the management register? Apparently, according to some interpretations, Finnish investors should no longer set up companies in any other country and thus raise capital or issue shares in other countries, some of which even invest through a management register. Obviously you want Finnish companies to grow no longer anywhere but in Finland. But in today’s business, those who grow in the world are also growing in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u404	Mr President! Just for the record to be written, it must be said, in response to Mr Skinner's speech, that last week I was in exactly the same position as last week as regards the issuer's right to choose a CSD from anywhere in the European Union. Mr Skinner, you could not have misunderstood me on this point, so clearly I said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u405	There are two more replies, representatives Kankaanniemi and Hoskonen. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u406	Mr President! There's trust inside the government. But I thought that there would be no confidence in the opposition if I said that it was agreed orally that this matter would be settled by the end of June. That is why I asked the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for a written statement. [ The speaker showed the sheet of paper in his hand]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u407	Mr President! Just as Mr Kankaanniemi well said here, the two signatures on his paper prove that this matter is about to come to a good conclusion in this house. But remember, my friends — I take the forest industry as an example. We have three large forest industry companies in this country, two of which are already mainly owned abroad, only one is owned by Finland. In other words, we cannot be holed up here in Finland and imagine making a birdhouse here. — Representative Rinne is there to braid his head, looking depressed, hoping for a better future for him. — It is precisely we who must see internationalisation as a great opportunity in this case, because if we build ourselves here, even if Finnish companies expand abroad, we will be threatened with famine here in the future. We have to sell our products abroad to survive. We don't have a choice. Look at today's trade figures: very good things are happening in Finnish ports today. If we give a picture of ourselves that no one should come here, guess what will happen after that. I don't even have the guts to think about what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u408	And also, representatives of Skinner and Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u409	Representative Jaskari, I was talking about the issue of shares, not the creation of companies. That, too, is completely different. Apparently, the government now assumes that all investors are honest and that there is no need for impunity. According to this interpretation, the whole criminal law could be abolished in Finland, because everyone is in compliance with the rules anyway. Isn't that right, Congressman Jaskari? We are already hearing praise from businessmen in the United States that this new law will allow us to buy shares abroad, but we have been able to do so before. So this has been done all along.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u410	Mr President! The Group Chairman of the Finns Party, Kankaanniemi, was concerned about vague decision-making. Let me tell you what that vague decision-making is. First, the government where the Finns are sitting brings the proposal to Parliament and says that it is absolutely necessary to allow the registration of the administration in Finland. Then they pull it out, and suddenly you don't have to. Then a motion is brought to Parliament, which is kept hidden in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and a report is prepared hidden from the opposition, contrary to established and fair parliamentary rules — imported and passed in two days, and it is said that the statement will correct the matter. Then the following week it is said that we want to be re-prepared because this statement does not correct the matter and a new statement will be introduced. Mr Kankaanniemi, this is a vague decision-making process and this is the hazy decision-making that would have allowed this process to be better. But, Mr Kankaanniemi, do you also have those signatures on the other two contributions that have been made here in the report? Is there a signature on them too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u413	Let us now continue with the list of speakers and return to the debate if there is any further need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u414	Madam President! It is great that the Group Chairman of the Finnish People's Party has the assurance that the other two government parties have signed a commitment to promote something, but that does not mean that it can be included in the decision-making process of the Parliament. We are taking decisions here, which, according to this statement, means that we are committing the government 'without delay'. Whether there is a date in a letter is quite different. Surely we could have more faith in that if it were in this statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u422	Mr President! I have to say that I did not receive an answer from any representative of the government party to a simple question, which was that for how long you estimated that this big pig-to-be loophole would be open. But perhaps it is too much to ask when these changes have taken place every day. Yesterday, this sad-ass management saga received two more translations. First, the discussion of the motion was withdrawn from Parliament at the last minute. This commie avoided the embarrassing situation in which the motion might have been voted down when it seemed that some of the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland would have objected to the government's own motion. But then it was announced in the evening that the coat had turned, indeed, for the second time, according to my calculations, so that it is now also represented in Kankaanniemi in its original position that no one will notice anything happened. The government would be solving this problem by levying a 50% fine tax on dividends if a Finnish investor manages stock exchange shares under the management register. At some point as much as 60 per cent were flashed, and last time there was still a little doubt about what these percentages are. It is obviously an emergency solution, because the details were obscured. But let's take a look at the big picture of what a pain in the ass and what cancer these control registers are for the world economy. The problem with management registers is tax evasion and other financial crime, such as money laundering, corruption and insider dealing, carried out in their shelters. They will result in tax losses of hundreds of millions of euros for Finland and other countries. Politicians, for example, can hide their brittleness in business decisions. I now list six reasons why this fine tax will not save the situation and will not be able to correct this problem caused by the management register. Government, please. 1) Fine tax does not increase transparency of ownership. It would only increase the incentive to report hidden income to the tax authority. Tax information is confidential and even if it were made public, transparency could not be ensured, as the Tax Administration will receive it only the following year for the payment of dividends. Transparency of ownership requires up-to-date information. 2) A fine tax can be avoided by pretending to be a foreigner. After all, a withholding tax of 15% is already levied on the management register dividends if the dividend recipient has not been identified. Finnish investors have hidden behind the management registers, which means that 15 per cent of dividends have been taxed and sales gains have not been taxed at all unless they have been notified to the tax office voluntarily. The use of management registers has been illegal but possible. In this light, the government's proposal is absolutely absurd. How can a dividend payer know if the recipient of the dividend is in Finland if he has not been identified? You might as well ask the blind to choose from two cats or ten cats without stripes in the dark. Thus, a fine tax can only work if it applies to all unknown shareholders or dividend payers who are obliged to recognise the shareholder. But this is not what the government has proposed; on the contrary, the Ministry of Finance was hastened to confirm that the tax at some miracle only applies to Finns. And if the shareholder were identified, then the easiest thing would be to collect the dividend directly from the right tax and provide information about it to the tax authority. 3) It has already been mentioned that the withholding tax does not apply to disposal gains, sales gains. In practice, the shareholder can sell or lease the shares just before the dividend payment, so that the income becomes the profit instead of the dividends, and well, the taxpayer knows nothing about them. It is already very common, and this problem has been identified for more than 10 years, that the shares will be transferred to British names, among other things, just before the dividend payment, because the Finnish-British tax treaty prevents the tax from being levied on these dividends. 4) Foreigners can still avoid taxes. The management registers allow foreign investors to avoid tax evasion in their home country, as the Finnish tax authority cannot pass on information about the dividends received or the profits they receive to the authorities of their home country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u425	Mr President! Mr Lindtman is right: the Vice-Presidents often do not speak here. In his capacity as Vice-President, your colleague, Johannes Koskinen, took the floor 31 times during the parliamentary procedure, and some other Vice-Presidents have spent about the same amount, some far less. Before this theme, I have spoken here about energy, and this time I am going to address this issue, which, a few weeks ago, seemed to me to be no good for anyone to get involved in that issue, because it falls on the government in the publicity that was being made on this issue. When I saw how totally wrong was the image of the whole issue in public and the way in which it was given, including from the political side, false arguments about what this proposal contained, I thought to myself that, on the basis of the experience I gained during the last parliamentary term as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and on the basis of the experience that I gained from the fact that the chairmen of the parliamentary groups in the government parties explained this issue during the winter, I should also come here in this Chamber to express my own view of how I experienced this whole project, which is now at this second reading. First of all, the system of direct ownership, which is in Finland, is incomparably better than the system now established in Europe by the EU regulation, the system of 2014. Yes, absolutely. The management register system is a much worse system. It is not transparent in the way the system of direct ownership is. It offers opportunities for various criminal procedures, much greater opportunities. There are many other things that are not listed here that make such a system... If Finland were to order the whole of the European Union to have a system of direct ownership, I am quite sure that Finland would have liked to have done it a long time ago. But the argument that the European Union is moving in a more transparent direction in this area, which was claimed in several speeches, does not mean that this is the case. The regulation marked a deterioration for many European countries when it came into force in 2014, including Finland, Mr Harakka, and many other countries. Finland is not the only country here where it was a degradation of transparency, [TimoHaraka’s interlude] Finland set out to launch this project in such a way that, by various governments and ultimately also by the representative of this government, Minister Stubb, a proposal was prepared to do this once before, in which the Finland exception, which was already described here many times in 2014, had not been driven in the way it could be driven. I myself opposed it in many ways in public, including in the television debate — the management register in the way it was recorded in that bill — and fortunately, it was withdrawn. The Sipilä Government presented this new proposal, which has now been in Parliament and which has been lying down for far too long, I agree with many of you. There is now the point in this proposal which, at the first stage, raised the biggest public debate, the point that became the public perception, and I think that there was also the impression among many politicians that there was now a control register in Finland. No, he won't. No, he won't. The shares issued by Finnish companies in Finland must always be recorded in the Finnish securities system specifically on an individual book-entry account, i.e. a personal book-entry account. This is how this Finnish system was built, but in public — yes, you have all seen it — there were completely different writings, completely different content of it. [ Hustles from the left] The second problem, however, which still seems to be the point on which there is disagreement, is how to proceed in the event of a regulation that recognises the right of undertakings, of all undertakings in the European Union, that 'the issuer has the right to choose the CSD that he uses from CSDs approved in the European Union'. This is the message of the regulation — this is the message of the regulation. Does it apply to the Finnish derogation, which is clearly written in that point? It doesn't hurt, it doesn't hurt. All the key lawyers who have been asked for an opinion, including the Ministry of Justice, say this unambiguously: that Finland exemption does not apply to that point. There were still several claims here last week... Now I noticed that Mr Niinistö already directed his argument to a completely different point, no longer claimed any of this, talking about the investors who invest in the shares of the Finnish company issued there at the foreign CSD and so on. According to Finnish tax law, investors investing in a Finnish company registered in a foreign CSD should report and be obliged to report dividends received in Finland, their country of residence, their country of residence. This is not always the case, not all may report it. But that section of the regulation does not contain that public publicity. Unfortunately, we must not — not every one of us can — go to a French CSD and find out who owns and so on, but the tax office will now find out. The IRS will get that information. The tax authority's right to information was confirmed at the latest in the reporting standard that Finland adopted for its part a few years ago — I do not remember exactly when it was adopted. For the first time this year in all the countries of the European Union, every account manager in his own country will have to inform the State, that is, the Ministry of Finance in his own country, who owns what kind of business they own. And if France is taken as an example, France will then have to report on it to the responsible Finnish authority, i.e. the Tax Administration under the Ministry of Finance. This is now the first time in 2017 on the basis of 2016 data. If there is any doubt that this may not work in the best way, then this doubt can be dispelled by what is being done here. From the outset, a procedure was considered to introduce such a withholding tax, which would be imposed on dividends which would now be paid there in France, which would not necessarily become public tax authorities here in Finland, i.e. originally a withholding tax. Well, now in court this job has changed a little, and now it has come to the conclusion that this kind of withholding system and so on. Nothing changed from the point of view of the previous dispute. The report by the government groups that was here last week is going exactly the same way here, but now the way in which the Finnish tax authority is being allowed to catch those who threaten to hold back these dividends will change so that instead of withholding tax, this advance recovery will now be introduced. To be honest, I do not think this is a very big change. Both systems would have worked perfectly well, but now that we have reached this system among government groups, that the method of pre-recovery is the method by which this tax authority's way of attacking us now is good, so let us move forward with this. I do not think this is any worse than the withholding tax procedure, but I personally believe that this is no better than it is now. It is important that such an arrangement should be in any case. Even if it comes to reporting, let this be on top of it, combined with the reporting obligation and these obligations, which, I hope, will also be provided for in Finnish legislation. Together, this arrangement, I believe, will produce the result that we are seeking here. Mr President, quite briefly:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, I have quoted your reply. You don't have to stand there for long periods of time. — — — — Congressman Magpie.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u427	Mr President! I'd love to walk around here every once in a while. A long day is already going on. Mr Pekkarinen felt that I was wrong when I said that Europe was on its way to transparency. It is precisely wholesale decisions that have been taken to tackle tax evasion, which are also intended to increase ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u430	Mr President! When you listen to Mr. Harakka, it does surprise you. Of course we are all in favour of transparency, and I am sure that in the tax section we will then be discussing this whole issue. I am not in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but the impression is that we are giving people the impression that Finland is not a member of the EU and that we are not in that world. On the other hand, a picture came up here all the way in the autumn that entrepreneurs or investors are basically some shady men all the time and must be followed and punished.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u431	Mr President! Well, here's the news. Mr Pekkarinen said that if there are directives in the EU that can promote and ensure this, then you are prepared to promote them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u434	Mr President! Once again, with Mr Haraka, we do have a completely different view of the direction in which openness has been taken by the recent reform projects in the European Union, which concern this particular market. This regulation took a bad turn for this European development. There's no point in saying otherwise. In very many countries, this prevented direct ownership of people in companies compared to the situation that existed before this regulation. It is very difficult to say that Europe is going in the right direction. I called Professor Rothovius when he made this statement on television a couple of weeks ago, and I asked him if he was serious. I'm sure this will go to the professor for information and hearing. Maybe he'll get a look. I think that, after that debate, he will hardly be as sure of his position as he was before and so away. As far as the matter is concerned, there will be a directive soon, one that could perhaps help us in this regard. As soon as it does.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u437	Madam President! Mr Ala-Nissilä spoke here, claiming that of course we all want transparency. I am surprised by this argument, namely that more governments have been pushing ahead with this regulation and the directive on this management registration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u442	Mr President! This is what Mr Pekkarinen and I are going to disagree on. It is quite clear that this CSD Regulation was intended to increase transparency and was a step forward towards a more transparent regime, although not as far as the system of direct ownership already existed in Finland and in some other countries. And the OECD BEPS work, the Anti-Tax-Tax-Tax-Tax-Tax Directive, which Finland has adopted here, despite the fact that Finland has been very lazy and reluctantly involved in it itself, proves that there is currently a very strong will in Europe to collect taxes where they belong and the public services financed by it. And now the government is going in a completely different direction. We have heard several times this evening that you do not believe that Europe is fighting tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, and it does appear, hears and smells in your actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u443	Mr President! If the European Union had, let us say at least until 2015, allowed and promoted what Mr Harakka said, it would not have pushed such a register of management, a regulation. It's not even a directive. If it were, we could apply the directive in national practice. As we know, it is a framework law and applications can always be applied for at national level. But the regulation is a regulation and it is a piece of legislation that comes directly into national law as such. And it took us and it took many other countries into a bad situation. — Representative Harakka shakes his head: Did this improve the situation in Finland in any way? This made the situation in Finland worse. And the flaws that this has brought to Finland, now the ponies are forced to make maximum use of the opportunities, to fish for every Finn who owns shares in Europe, to the tax authorities of Finland and to be taxed. If he does not, he will in any case be taxed with an advance tax. We are going to have to do this when the EU pushed this bad regulation in on us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u444	One more reply, and then we'll go back to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u445	Mr President! I believe that this debate and discussion here show that the government has taken this project so messyly forward that it deserves a whole new start. Today's debate and, in fact, the process in which this has been carried through are such that if we wanted to respect the principles of open and fair parliamentary democracy, this proposal would not be followed in this way by wanking through the dark summer shore and then taking away and taking forward the list. Especially not now, Mr Pekkarinen, and that is indeed news if you think it is worth looking at this card, which concerns the shareholders' rights directive, which would allow us well to impose these requirements on investors and issuers, which has also been proposed here in the protest. Why wouldn't we do that? Give me one reason why we shouldn't. One reason, even so that the Finns of Peru would not have to get caught so badly with their pants down for turning their coat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u446	Mr President! Mr Skinner is talking about a directive. I don't think there's any such thing, but you can imagine. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] Mr President! This EU seems a little vague, even in this Chamber, on the hierarchy and quality of EU legislation for some. The directive is a guideline to be followed by national legislation. The EU regulation, as adopted, is valid legislation in each Member State and goes beyond national law. This is a regulation, an EU regulation, and that is why we are in a position to comply with that regulation and national legislation to ensure that it does not conflict with this regulation. If someone takes this EU regulation to the Finnish EU Court of Justice, this EU Regulation will apply there. When it comes to this issue, which is now being dealt with, you can say, one of the fundamental principles of the EU, the free movement of capital and, on the other hand, the freedom of competition, then it is very likely that the ruling of the European Court of Justice would come to Finland if we were to legislate against that EU regulation. We are therefore in the federal state in this sense, in a perfect federal state, with the exception that our previous government — whether the Minister of Finance Rinne or the Minister of Finance Urpilainen — was negotiating this really bad regulation which led Finland to the situation that we had to increase and not strengthen the secrecy. This is the fact. You created a regulation with your help that we are in this miserable situation. We have no choice here but to move forward with this legislation. We have heard here, Mr Harakka and Mr Skinner, two reasons why this matter should now be taken away. It's a permit application that comes in September. It must be dealt with within a certain period of time and there must be legislation ready for it. The second is that the sanctions will start from the day the case is brought before the European Court of Justice. They are the heavy consequences, and that is a risk the government will not take. I received a guarantee when I raised the question of whether this could be reinstated in preparation and, on the other hand, the question of what is the timetable. I received clear, unambiguous answers that we cannot return to preparation and that the timetable will not allow this to be re-examined as a whole in the summer. That would be wasteful and absurd. In that sense, this report must be adopted and this legislation put into effect. Let us then correct it if it turns out that there are opportunities for it, as the laws are always corrected as necessary. That is the basis on which progress has been made. Mr President! This new statement has been raised here. Yesterday we had long negotiations between the group presidents of the government parties, and finally also with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance. We have clarified from the Ministry, and also from other experts, that we cannot make progress on the issue of withholding tax rates, which is at the very heart of the report. In other words, if the withholding tax rate were to be increased significantly from 30 — to be effective within this system in order to increase and ensure public access to the public authorities — it would require a substantial increase in the withholding tax rate — it would primarily be directed at foreigners, and this would have implications. It would reduce foreign investment in Finnish companies' shares, reduce their value and reduce investment opportunities. This is certainly not what I want. We have now just had the government bring about a strong investment boom on the way out and on the way. Employment is improving rapidly, the economy is growing with all indicators. Why would we make such legislation that would destroy this base? Another factor why this withholding tax rate cannot be raised to such a high level that it would prevent speculation is that withholding tax refunds would come to peaks. It has been reported that the Danish tax administration received around 2000 false applications for withholding tax refunds, resulting in tax losses of EUR 1.7 billion for the Danish State and leading to the dismissal of the Danish Tax Administration’s Director General last year. So this aspect must also be taken into account, [AnttiLindtman and PaavoArhinmäki calls]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u447	Mr President! First of all, thank the government and also the Vice-President for a good debate. We are slowly starting to get to the point of Finnish European policy, how Finland interprets EU law and how perhaps it should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u450	Mr President! The evening has come a long way, and much has been said here with a high level of quality and less quality. I would just like to take the floor to support the motion for rejection by Mr Ihalainen so that we can vote on this issue on Friday. Then we measure the position of the Finns and everyone else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u451	Madam President! Finally, on this point, I would like to say to the extent that, in this matter, the great clarity has come from the fact that this is not, of course, a directive which the European Union has given Member States an obligation to implement the spirit of the directive in its own laws in the way it sees fit. Then, if we go into a dispute, it will go to the Court of Justice, which will be a solution. Instead, as Mr Pekkarinen said in his own speech, this is an EU regulation which, as such, is directly applicable. Here's the difference. This is what if we get smart with each other, and next Christmas we'll be here to wring the same thing. The most important thing is that this issue is now taking its final form. Mr Kankaanniemi's contribution, which he has just presented in his own speech, is certainly sufficient for everyone. There is no way we can get inside other countries. We represent around 1.8% of the European Union's economies in the European Union, which means that we do not have anything to do with it, and we should not. Let every sovereign state do as it pleases. The fact that we are on an open market also gives us that responsibility. We cannot make our own laws so difficult or give ourselves the impression that no investor should ever come here. We are a country dependent on foreign capital; our own money is simply not enough. The government's policy has led to an increase in exports, ports are happening, people are finding employment. And as you saw in the Helsingin Sanomat issue yesterday, growth has started in all major industries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u454	Mr President! The management register is not in use in Finland and this bill also does not bring it to Finland. A model of direct ownership will remain in Finland, thanks also to Mr Essayah for his work as a European parliamentarian, which will allow further transparency. The register was included in the Government's bill in 2015, but fortunately it was withdrawn from the requirement of the Finns of Finland, and a similar proposal has no longer been brought to Parliament. It's been the right thing to do. Mr President! The European Union has put a lot of pressure on our domestic legislation, and this is also an example of this EU regulation on which this bill is now based. The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs contains three motions for statements which support a significant number of loopholes in tax evasion and which, according to Mr Essayah, are also reflected in the current system. The statements contained in the report are important and, in particular, the first one, which is now very wisely supplemented by a statement made during the course of this case to the recipient of dividends who remains unidentified for 50% of the withholding tax in Finland. Mr President! I, like other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, regard this 50% withholding as a necessary condition, and precisely this sufficiently high tax rate as a necessary condition and an increase that will help to safeguard the interests of honest taxpayers and ensure that equity in taxation is achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u455	Madam President! This concealment of assets in the management register has acquired farcical characteristics. The former Finance Minister explained how this "is buried" and in the following statement he said that "there is no preparation of this kind in any form". These are direct quotes from Alexander Stubb. This issue has been back and forth in this government since 2015 despite the fact that during the previous period we were given special permission not to participate in this arrangement. The Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen, who spoke here exceptionally, as he said, says on Twitter: "Does anyone dare say that this compromise will change this proposal?" And I think that is honestly stated, that is all. So this extra couple of days has brought nothing new to this actual matter — or perhaps it has brought the one patch to the point that taxes can now be collected in a different way. These efforts, which have been written here in the last two days, are of course good, but I am surprised that, when this matter has been standing here for two years, why those legislative changes have not been made during it, but are now being invented during these two days, when suddenly there is a party in distress. The measures taken by the shadow economy are necessary, but now they may have focused more on fine speech than on actual deeds, as the next step is to become, among other things, the Money Laundering Act, in which, on the part of the European Union, we want to promote the knowledge of the actual last-minute owners and beneficiaries so that the limit is 10% of that ownership, but the government's proposal is about to limit it to 25%. In my opinion, this is a strange activity. If the European Union is going in a much stricter direction and wants transparency, then the government of this country does not want to do so, but wants to keep this money laundering legislation there too for 25%, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u456	Madam President! Vice-President Pekkarinen made a strong speech here, saying that in this week, when this register was taken away from the demand of the Finns, nothing changed. That's what he said about this toilet. It's an honest and hard statement. Vice-President Pekkarinen told us honestly and openly that these efforts here, which are now considered to be a major political achievement, have in fact been nothing more than a publicity game. An attempt has been made to hide the fact that the management register — or the shady register, as is rightly the case with the Minister, then a Member of Parliament, Soini was still photographed last season — despite the fact that the Finns have so strongly opposed it. Madam President! Something very revealing was also said by Mr Kankaanniemi. As chairman of the parliamentary group, he explained in great detail how last week, as a great political achievement, as a great compromise, as a means of preventing all the problems in this dim register, the effort created within a week had turned into a completely problematic, totally unacceptable one, and then at the same time he said that the new impetus negotiated this week will solve all the problems. Now that Mr Kankaanniemi said that if you do not believe my speech, at least believe what I have written, the question is whether we should believe what the Kankaanniemi said two weeks ago, a week ago, this week, or whether we should wait another week to change our views? Madam President! This shady register has a long history. This was driven vigorously already during the Kiviniemi government. That's when the time ran out. I myself served as a minister in Katainen's government, and that was also the time when this dim register was driven very strongly. At that time, claims were made that this must be put into effect, that we have no other choice, that is what the EU requires. At the time, the left-wing Union, the Social Democrats and the Greens went through this with the European Union and there came a clear vision, a clear statement that this EU directive does not require us to give up what is good in Finland, public access. There's another way to deal with this. Despite this, it was once again brought before Parliament this season, under the leadership of the Sipilä Government and on the same grounds as the attempt to intrude it into the programmes and activities of the Katainen Government, which we rejected together, in the same way, claiming that this is what the EU is demanding. This twilight register stopped at one unfortunate Question Time, where expert opinions — well, they went a little towards "sorry about it". Now it is essential to see what was then said. The following was said, Mr Soini, Minister Soini: 'The administrative register will not be taken forward. The decision is the right one and corresponds to the Finnish people's line. This has been our consistent position in the last parliamentary term." The Minister for Finance, then Minister for Finance, Alexander Stubb said: "We said this morning, among the chairmen of the government parties, that in this situation it would not make sense to take forward the register of directors. We will not redefine the management register in any form. The control register is buried and buried. It will not be imported during this reign." So this was promised by Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb. Well, after that, Minister Stubb brought a new proposal here to Parliament. But let's see what Mr Turunen, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, said less than six months ago in December 2016 from this dim register: "Finland does not need and does not want to change the law on limited liability companies so that ownership can be hidden in the management register abroad. In the past year, I have not been able to find out the motive of the Coalition Party and the Centre to promote the possibility of concealing ownership. I am very surprised at this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u459	Mr President! I would like to comment on the dynamics of EU decision-making, which is known to Mrs Essayah and also to Mrs Sirpa Pietikäinen, who has been mentioned in this debate. The EU decision-making process is always subject to very intense lobbying from the industry in question when dealing with any issue that draws on the interests of one of the industries in which the big money revolves. The financial sector is one of those who initiate lobbying when it comes to their affairs, and this is also reflected in the EU regulation that has been mentioned here. Well, colleagues have pointed out that, since the regulation of this regulation, there have been, among other things, Lux Leaks and Panamanian papers that have attracted the attention of the general public, the media and a considerable number of citizens, to the problems of concealing ownership, and this has created pressure in a more transparent direction in EU decision-making. Now, if Finland, which, when this regulation was adopted with its claws, insisted that we in Finland should be more transparent, submits to this management register line, then it will be a signal in Brussels that we no longer want to hold onto that openness, and then it will also be as a counterweight and as an argument from those who do not want to increase the requirement of transparency through EU decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u460	Mr President! It was also intended to go over some of this history with its sitats, but since Mr Arhinmäki has already done it quite well, I will not go through it. But I would like to say that much has already been said about this and I think that what matters is where today's debate went. The news of today's debate is that the government has not turned all the stones that could be translated to ensure that this publicity is maintained at such a level that we can be sure that economic decision makers and politicians do not make decisions under the cover of shady registers that may harm citizens or, for example, small shareholders. That has become clear, and in fact Mr Kankaanniemi's speech was a good example of that. Last week it was said that withholding tax is a fantastic system, and this week it was said that it would be absolutely disastrous. So what the Minister for Finance Orpo said last week, with a much-spoken responsibility or ministerial responsibility, said that this is what we are going to be preparing for, is already a wolf. This new tax model has now been introduced, and I will be asking: will this remove the worst shortcomings associated with this authorisation of a management register? Well, it doesn't. It does not remove the question of taxing profits. It does not remove the issue of the disclosure of potential insider dealings or money laundering offences. And when it has been said many times that this new model is OK with the authorities, it is not so: both the Krp and the police have made very critical statements about this. So the sum of therum: What happened? First of all, this Sipilä government said that Finland is now absolutely obliged to allow the registration of the administration in Finland. When it became a known resistance in 2015, the government bowed. It was only under public pressure that the government, including the True Finns, gave in to pulling this away. They pulled it back. Then we came back and said that now this management register law will come again and it must be allowed abroad. After that, the Finns said that this was not progressing, as Arhinmäki quoted here earlier. The matter was blocked in committee. For more than a year it was there, and then a decision was made in connection with the negotiations on the spending limits at the Summer Bank. It was only after that that a decision had been taken there, and the matter just appeared on the list of the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs. It just came out. The decision was not reported, not spoken, not communicated. This was actually decided in dim detail. For example, with regard to this advance tax, the efforts that have been brought, as is well known, proved to be a full wolf, and now new ones are being brought. And in the meantime, the Finns of Peru announced that the matter should be reinstated in preparation. If this matter had been in the Chamber yesterday, then there is a real chance that this matter would have turned out to be the best for the Finns. This bill would have been rejected. But what happened on Tuesday? It was reported that the matter only, simsalabim, will be removed from the list. Mr President, there is, of course, a right to do so. It is possible to remove the matter from the list, but we have not heard the reasons for this. And now this proposal at the same time huge, can be said with the term used by the ministers with the historical war package in the evening twilight, trying to extrude through the debate at second reading. When the television news cameras have already gone out and the news of the day has been told to the public, there is now little attempt to sneak through this at night in the Chamber of Parliament. And the PTA police MPs who had taken the floor have simply disappeared and are not answering the questions to which Finns are entitled to receive an answer. Mr President! I cannot accept this procedure once and for all, this process, this procedure in which things are decided and not mentioned. The government parties have had all the material available for the report in the past, but in two days they will be extruded through the committee, things will be removed from the list without warning, and then, in the evening twilight with the historic mass of social services, this will now be attempted through a debate that does not involve representatives of the government parties answering questions that Finns have the right to answer according to Western parliamentary open democracy when laws are enacted. Mr President! I cannot accept this procedure, and I therefore propose that this matter be left on the table at the sitting on 16 May, so that this matter can be dealt with in an honourable manner, which is the case here. This government project must be dealt with in the light of day. I would like to put the matter on the table on 16 May. the meeting to be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u461	Mr President! On the basis of the strong and serious arguments put forward by Mr Lindtman, I support the representative. Lindtman's performance on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u462	A proposal has been put on the table and the proposal has been supported. It is now up to us to decide whether to continue this debate in plenary or to put it on the table. Do you want to talk about putting on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u463	Mr President! I shall put the motion on the table for the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-10-ps-51.u464	In the debate, Antti Lindtman, supported by Timo Haraka, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 16 May 2017.
