ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 April 2017. With the support of Satu Hassi Silvia Modig, the debate has been followed by a proposal on the explanatory statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. The debate on this subject will take place until 3 p.m., i.e. for one hour. The referral debate will be continued if necessary after discussion of other items in the order of business. If the debate ends before 3 p.m., we shall move on to the next item on the agenda, that is, the fourth item.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u3	Madam President! The police should be able to maintain the order and security of various public events in a potentially rapidly changing security situation. Where appropriate, these provisions should allow for a comprehensive provision of safety inspections in different situations at public events and events. It is necessary that a police officer may, if the situation so requires, inspect the person in order to ensure that he does not hold any articles or substances whose possession is prohibited at the event. The current provisions have identified additional needs in relation to the situations in which a police officer can carry out a security check at various occasions and in case of items and substances. There is also a lack of clarity as to the provisions under which a police officer is entitled to carry out an inspection. The Government proposes that the security inspection regulation of the Police Act be supplemented and clarified in such a way as to enable the police to carry out more comprehensive security inspections at events and events requiring special protection or special supervision. Madam President! The aim of the proposed law is to increase the order and security of the various events by allowing more comprehensive security checks by the police in the area and in the vicinity of the events. The aim is to prevent the introduction of dangerous and otherwise illegal objects and substances into public events and to enable them to be held more effectively at public events and events. The aim is, among other things, to prevent the illicit spread of drugs in public events. It is proposed to extend the police officer's right of security inspection, both regionally and in objects. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The proposed amendments to the Police Act would ensure that a police officer has the right, on a regional basis, to carry out an inspection which is necessary to maintain the order and security of the events. The right of a police officer to carry out a security check would, in principle, cover persons in all areas of organisation, event and accommodation and in their immediate vicinity, but not persons in a place protected by domestic peace. The right of a police officer to carry out a security check would no longer be restricted to persons arriving, leaving and in the immediate vicinity of the place or accommodation. Under the provisions in force, a police officer is only entitled to inspect a person in order to ensure that he does not possess items which could pose a risk to the safety of the person. According to the motion, a police officer could inspect a person with dangerous substances,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u4	Madam President! I myself have also been a police officer in the narcotics police, and I consider the government's proposal to be necessary and good. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the security inspection regulation of the Police Act to allow the police to carry out more comprehensive security inspections at events and events requiring special protection or special supervision. If necessary, the police would have the right to inspect the person not only for dangerous goods and substances but also to ensure that the person does not possess items or substances whose possession is otherwise prohibited by law or by law. In addition, the right of a police officer to carry out an inspection at the places of opportunity or event would be supplemented by the right of the police officer to apply a security inspection to a person in the area of organisation, if the situation so requires. It should be noted at this point that the proposal clearly states that there must always be a legitimate reason for the inspection and that the provision does not justify carrying out raid-type safety checks on anyone. The safety situation in Finland and elsewhere has deteriorated, and it is also good that the government has seen the need both to supplement and clarify the law on the regional dimension of the right of inspection and the subject matter and substances covered by the inspection. In the practical work of the police, it has been found that the regional coverage of the control authority is unnecessarily limited in terms of the maintenance of the security of the events. This aspect is also supported by legal literature. It is necessary to amend the law in such a way that, in a situation where the police receive a credible tip at the time of the event that the person present holds a dangerous object or dangerous substance, the police would be able to carry out security checks. It has also been noted that there is a need for preventive police inspections at general public events without any real suspicion of a criminal offence. While it is often difficult to detect an individual at large events, ensuring the safety of the event may, however, require intervention in bringing dangerous or otherwise illegal objects or substances to the public. In the government's proposal, not only the vigilante but also the police officer must be able to monitor by inspection compliance with the ban on possession of objects and substances at the event, if necessary. Here, too, it is necessary for the right of the police to conduct a security check at various occasions and the procedures to be followed in the inspection to be clearly laid down in the police law. Another good thing about this government proposal is that the clarifications of the regulations improve the order and security of the events in their regions and in their vicinity. This will also help to prevent dangerous and otherwise illegal objects and substances from being brought to public events. One of the aims is, of course, to prevent the illicit possession and distribution of drugs in public events and in the areas where they are organised. It should be noted that the clarifications do not apply to a person in a place protected by domestic peace, they have their own sections. The use of a trained dog as a procedure is also justified, for example, in the provision of a safety check on explosives or drugs. The use of the dog is less than by hand palpation the manner in which the personal integrity of the target person is not checked. Bringing illegal drugs to public gatherings can interfere with the order of events and the safety of individuals. I attach particular importance to this at events with a large number of young participants. Easy access to drugs is seen as a key factor in increasing the risk of drug use among young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u7	Madam President! So this is about changing Chapter 2 of the Police Act. In other words, the police should be able to carry out more comprehensive safety inspections at events and events requiring special protection or supervision. This law can well be seen, above all, as a response to the changed security threats, as Mr Raatikainen, a former police officer, described well. This law will thus give the police greater opportunities to examine people's goods at public events and, for example, in the case of state visits or other types of events of this kind, without any suspicion of crime. The terrorist threat is certainly this type of threat that could arise in these cases, or, as Mr Raatikainen pointed out, the big public events, the festivals and the drug problems in them. However, security checks by the police will continue to be conditional on being seen as necessary to assess the risks of major events. In fact, I would like a little further clarification myself. So can such a festival be viewed directly as such that these checks can be carried out, for example, from the point of view of drugs? I would also like a little more light from the Minister. The police should therefore be entitled not only to inspect a person for dangerous objects and substances but also to ensure that he does not possess items or substances whose possession is otherwise prohibited by law or by law. The right to an inspection would therefore be extended to the person in the area where the event was organised. In fact, in today's law, by means of the assembly law, law enforcement has even greater rights than the police to carry out an inspection. On the other hand, the police can also use a trained dog to search for drugs to carry out inspections, while the law does not exist today. However, according to modern law, until now, the police have only been allowed to examine those who came and left for the events and those who were outside the fences. Thus, the rights of the police have not been extended to the person who has been admitted or is already in the event before this change of law has taken place. The right of a police officer to carry out an inspection would therefore no longer be limited to persons arriving at, leaving and in the immediate vicinity of the place or accommodation. In the future, however, this would be so that when you enter, the right to check would be lower on the threshold than when you leave. According to the bill, the police should have the right to inspect the person not only for dangerous goods but also for other prohibited substances. These include drugs or explosives. As a final point, I would like to raise the issue of Oulu pedestrian street, which was raised a few years ago by Mrs Raatikainen in a written question, where drug control was carried out. At that time, it was decided to restrict the use of police dogs following the remark made by Assistant Attorney Jussi Paju-oja that the drug dog was used at a public event to sniff the passersby, and this was perceived as an illegal activity. So the use of drug dogs began to be restricted so that they were not allowed to snoop at street users or festival guests. Mr Raatikainen put a written question on this then, and now we are in a situation where we have a bill. And when I read that bill myself, I was not sure whether this will give me this right, which was used on the Oulu pedestrian street and where the Assistant Attorney General Pajuja was missing. So I would ask Minister Risiko: can a police dog be used in this way at public events in the future, i.e. could be sniffed out, for example, by those who come into the event without prior suspicion? Mr President! I hope there will be answers to these questions at some point in the debate, but thanks must be given to the fact that we are once again doing one good reform to strengthen security and that, through this too, we can prevent the different types of crime, which is at its worst even terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u8	Let's take Mr. Päivi Räsänen from that list, and then we'll take the opportunity to make a debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u9	Mr President! Indeed, I believe that this proposal, which has already been presented in great depth by both the Minister and his colleagues, is to be supported and justified, and is an essential response to the shortcomings of police powers in practice. One fundamental change here is that the right of a police officer to carry out a security check would no longer be restricted, as is the case today, only to persons arriving, leaving and in the immediate vicinity of the place of organisation or accommodation, but could also target persons there on the actual occasion, thereby improving the ability of the police to take care of order and carry out their statutory duties. This proposal would essentially support the fight against drug-related crime, particularly in connection with public events and events. Here in the motion we are talking about something which Mr Heinonen also drew attention to, namely that a safety check could also be carried out using a trained dog. This is, of course, already possible, but this proposal suggests that it would further expand the situations in which this could be used. For example, in the case of illicit drugs, the use of dogs can significantly enhance the targeting of safety inspections at events involving a large number of people. But I did have that same question in mind, which representative Heinos had in mind, that in what way would it then affect this particular case of the Assistant Ombudsman Pajuja, where a police dog could then, without special targeting, go there at events. It is likely that a lot of those would then be caught where the dog would make the mark. Well, of course this possibility is in itself good and necessary, if that is the case. Last autumn, the National Institute for Health and Welfare was part of such a European research community carrying out 60 European cities of wastewater research, the result of which was particularly worrying for Finland. According to it, the use of methamphetamine in Finland has increased sharply, and in Espoo, for example, the quantities of this drug had increased by nearly 20 times from one year ago, even in Helsinki by 16 times. Similarly, in many other cities this growth was seen. However, THL was very concerned about this and felt that, in any case, this meant that the use of this particular group of drugs is on the increase, and surprisingly much is on the increase. And, of course, the use of drugs also causes these irregularities, not only that it is, of course, serious and harmful, especially for young people in terms of health and public health. Indeed, it is good if the Minister can give a more precise answer to the very question that Mr Heinonen asked here. Finally, I would like to say that it is necessary for the police to have sufficient powers to carry out their duties, but just as important is the fact that the police also have sufficient resources. And now I must congratulate Minister Risikko on the result of yesterday's mid-term debate on the fact that the EUR 46 million has been allocated to the management of internal security, which, of course, goes for other purposes, the Border Guard and the Border Guard, but also for the police. Perhaps the figures are not exactly what was hoped for in this debate. For example, in the case of the police, the Group Chairman of the People's Party spoke about EUR 60 million, which could significantly increase the number of policemen, so that is not enough. But in any case, this is a very good step forward, including in police resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u10	All right, there's a possibility of going to the debat. I'm asking you to sign up. Congressman Heinäluoma begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u11	Mr President! This proposal is indeed one of the government's legislative proposals that can be supported. Police powers must be clear, not only for policemen but also for the general public at public events. However, the reality of these various public events and changing security situations is wide-ranging and this decision, which is now on the table, will not solve these problems. At the same time, 20 years ago, we have a supplementary police system that has been created for the purpose of finding backup in changing situations. These additional police officers have never been used in these 20 years. They are a bit like the European Union's rapid reaction force. However, when there are situations in which there is a clear need, and this has also been discussed in the Administrative and Security Section of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance, I will ask: is this development of supplementary police activities now on the Minister's agenda so that it can be helped by not all the small sums of money that have been decided in the spending limits debate yesterday?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u12	Madam President! At first, I too would like to thank Minister Risikko for making significant contributions to strengthening internal security during the Government spending limits debate. I draw attention to Mr Räsänen's speech, in which he said that the police should have sufficient powers, such as those of the rule of law in Finland. I am addressing the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, even though they are not very present in the Chamber because of their mission. Some time ago, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took an amazing position on me, in which it was felt that it was not justified to handcuff a prisoner during transport, even though the government’s proposal was that ‘it was necessary to protect the safety of a prisoner or another person’ and so on. The same situation is now at hand: on the one hand, people's rights to freedom, on the other hand, security. I really hope for thorough reflection and a sensible solution from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u13	Madam President! There is certainly a need for adequate powers and resources for the police, but there is also a need for due consideration and the use of reason. However, even here, when an interpretation is required — 'as the situation necessarily requires' or 'in the immediate vicinity' — and reference has been made to football matches, among other things, it is desirable that, even in the new situation, this legislation does not lead to provocation and further problems being caused by interpretation and practical application. I imagine, though, that two football teams are congregating a few miles from the stadium, and how they are viewed. The risk is that they have material, objects, torches or so on not belonging to the stadium, but the police must really use that cool judgment and appropriate behavior to avoid provocation to worse problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u14	Mr President! Let me comment on this supplementary police system. First of all, these who have been included in the supplementary police system are already old enough to move to the reserve. The following people who would go into this would have to be completely reeducated. There are no more people there who can be used. Then about the use of a police dog and the public events, I ask the Minister of State: If I measure speeds on that side of the road and all who drive speeding, I take aside, or if I blow drivers and those who are drunk, I take aside, in what way is it different from the action that my police dog sniffs drug residues or drugs in a person who is sniffed out of it? I think this is exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u15	Madam President! Thank you, too. The Social Democrats have proposed money like the entire Committee on Administrative Affairs here for the resources of the police and border control, and that is something that has come to a large extent. In this actual bill: we all understand that it is good to check people's goods at different public events, but when you look at the Ombudsman's statement, there are still many questions left open. First of all, how does this doubt — is it just a long shot that anyone is checked? Then the question here is that, according to him, this is no longer a security check at all, but a criminal investigation — this thinking that we should go into the investigation of people who are not necessarily suspicious at all. And it has also been said quite harshly here on this regional point — how large and wide-ranging it can be interpreted that it is part of this opportunity — that it is an intolerable situation in terms of interference with fundamental rights. So I suspect that the Constitutional Committee, like the Administrative Committee, will have to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u16	Madam President! The police's powers of action must be sufficient, as has been said many times here, and this bill will certainly help to monitor the various public events. I am interested to hear the Minister's line on this police dog issue, which has now been raised in several speeches. I must say that Mr Paatero also raised these remarks made by the Ombudsman. Especially in view of, for example, the various sporting events in that world, it is quite obvious, from the outset, that the bags and goods brought by all who attend that event will be examined and looked through. Of course, most of the time it is a closed space, a stadium, or something like that, but also coming over to the entire area, which may be miles away from the actual site, causes these types of checkpoints. In that sense, I personally think that this is absolutely necessary today so that such general public events can take place at all costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u17	Madam President! Two important things are happening here. Firstly, this government proposal, which gives the police more powers in the fight against drugs and, of course, in the promotion of other security, and it is really great that the police are now getting 38 million dollars. Mr Kulmala and also Mr Räsänen raised important issues: we must increasingly focus traffic controls specifically on drugs, because every day we read in the paper how someone is acting on drugs and the best are already stopping at the roundabout when they do not know where the world is going. And a representative. Mr Räsänen intervened in the same matter as I did last week, precisely this increased use of drugs that can be investigated from wastewater. There are quite alarming numbers, as was said in Espoo and Helsinki. This, too, shows how strongly it is in the municipalities and in every city to include anti-drug work in the program, as well as treatment facilities for young people who are addicted to drugs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u18	Madam President! In my opinion, this bill is necessary from the point of departure. I think it is a good thing that the powers are clear, and that is certainly the general approach. President! Then a few additional questions have arisen regarding the police. After all, we had a Friday debate here a few weeks ago on these police resources, which were completely inadequate in the framework in relation to what is being pursued in the various reports. The Social Democrats are already calling for more money for the police in the debate. We have also proposed it ourselves, and it was good in itself that it came. But, as has been said, these resources are not yet sufficient in themselves, and that is why it is also important for the Minister to comment, among other things, on this question by Mrs Heinäluoma on the supplementary police. The second thing that was discussed here at the time was this reform of alcohol law. With the obvious need for additional police forces, for additional funds, will the government now consider this reform of alcohol law from this point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u20	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma raised an important point about these additional police officers. About 20 years ago, I myself was a police shooting instructor, a force trainer, a tactical trainer, a military officer and even a police dog instructor, and at the time that this supplementary police system was introduced, I had the responsibility of training and I presented to the officers that these auxiliary police officers could now be trained, that they could act as a support officer with the police. Unfortunately, even then, we have so little money that I can only train police personnel, there was no additional resources to train these additional police officers. Just as Mr Heinäluoma asked, do we have a chance now? For example, the military police that have now been released from military service and carried out it would be an excellent target group. These people, who were selected as supplementary officers 20 years ago, are already retiring and can be referred to as paper tigers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u21	Madam President! I too share these thanks for this additional money, and the Christian Democrats must have been the first to submit additional appropriations to the police, absolutely. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u22	Mr President! It is, of course, a good idea that there should be more money for the police, but then the resources must also come in another way. There is also a need for more of these police dogs, and I can tell you that we do not only have drug dogs, we also have bomb dogs. I don't want to live in a world of fear, I don't want to live in a world of fear, but when I'm realistic, I know that a birdhouse doesn't last forever even for us. In my opinion, we should ensure that our border guards, our police forces, have the powers to intervene in these matters. Especially at public gatherings, they seem to be under the influence of individuals, and it is, listen, dear friends, frightening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u23	Madam President! It is very important that the police force came and that this internal security was increased by EUR 38 million. I'm the one who's been thinking. There has been a great deal of talk here about the need to invest a great deal in road safety and the use of these drugs. I would also like to see an additional point — and I hope — that it is precisely this study of the black economy, which will bring more funding back, that this money will also be invested, and, in the field of road safety, that the control of heavy traffic and, more importantly, illegal heavy traffic will be made available to the professional police force to deal with these traffic offences.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u24	Mr President! Very good speeches here. For my part, I would like to thank the Government's proposal for a law amending Chapter 2 of the Police Act, as it responds precisely to the needs of the police in their practical work today, as new security threats are increasing. During my career, I have also been allowed to work on these dog patrols myself. The dog is a very valuable tool, including a coworker, whose ability to identify explosives as well as drugs, and so on, depending on its training, is undefeated. Finally, I would also like to comment on that funding for the police: it was great that we had it, but the need would be more important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u25	Madam President! Thank you to Minister Risiko and the government for these contributions to security, not only to the police, but also to the protection police and external security; the border fences are, of course, very overlapping at the moment. Human safety — I am raising it to the top of all in this motion, and now, alongside drugs, absolutely terror. I would like to add a little more clarity to this: when there is, for example, a walking street event of this kind, which may be a May Day or a New Year, which is not necessarily organised — the Nice attack is of this kind, which took place in precisely this kind of festival situation, or the most recent attack around the football stadium — I would like to hear the Minister's view that the use of a police dog would apply to these areas, and I would also like the committee in its own report to take a position that this would also allow the use of a police dog, for example, on walking streets in such festival events.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u26	Madam President! More comprehensive security checks by the police are indeed to be welcomed. In the last five years, the number of dangerous objects taken over by the police and suitable for harming others has increased clearly. Last year alone, more than four hundred people were left in Tampere, whose armaments were unacceptable, and these figures are just the tip of the iceberg of statistics. These are cases that come to the attention of the police in other cases, when sharp weapons are found, for example, by shoplifters and drunk drivers. This is, to a large extent, a hidden crime. There is rarely an acceptable reason to carry an object suitable for damage in a public place, and if there is always a risk that it will be used against another person and under the influence of drugs, the threshold may be reduced. Should the penalty scale for possession of dangerous objects be tightened up, which could perhaps prevent possession?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u27	Before the Minister, still representatives Räsänen and Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u28	Madam President! This bill and its explanatory statement have specifically raised the issue of drug control and its effectiveness, which is an important issue, but I do think, when we talk about dangerous objects too, that this proposal will, unfortunately, also be used in the fight against violent acts, violent attacks and possibly even terrorism, because it will also increase those opportunities. Of these resources to be allocated to the police, this increase will now be sufficient to keep the number of police officers in it at the annual level of 7800 policemen, but if the alcohol law is reformed, then the benefits will be largely wasted because it would require an increase of 300 person-years in the event of a change in the alcohol law, and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u29	Mr President! I will come back to this supplementary police issue from the very point of view that Mr Räsänen has said here, and that is that there are more and more of these changing situations and needs. We now have to reserve the resources of a highly trained police officer for a rather secondary task of supervision and presence, where there is a need to be on the ground and, if necessary, to intervene. Although one of the bad cultures mentioned here in recent years of our football development is that hooliganism has come here as well. We may have situations where there are 40 police officers on the ground at the edge of a sports field in Helsinki, and then there are about the same number of spectators when we have to prepare on the basis of advance information. That is why this review of the supplementary police system is so important. It is just as has been said here: they have not been used now, they have been a waste of time. The only task of this group has been four times a year to receive the Police magazine and read it, but that's all that's happened. This is the government's fault if we don't fix this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u30	And Minister Risikko, five minutes tops, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u31	Madam President! The right of a police officer to carry out a security check would therefore no longer be limited to persons arriving, leaving and in the vicinity of the place of organisation or accommodation. In future, the right of a police officer to carry out a security check would, in principle, cover all persons in and around the affected areas, including those already present at the event. This is the big change in this now that once you have been able to check out futures and departures and outside, now you should also check inside the opportunity, for example, if you think of a festival area. A safety check could be carried out not only at events requiring special protection, but also at events requiring special supervision. According to the proposal, the need for specific controls could be linked, for example, to the specific nature of the event or to the reasonable suspicion that those taking part in the event possess prohibited substances or articles within the meaning of the provisions. However, it should be noted that, according to the provisions, inspection would only be carried out in the manner and to the extent necessary. This applies therefore to the inspection procedure, the place and the articles. Then there was the question of drug dogs, which means that in future, drug dogs would be allowed to sniff out any Fedster without suspecting a crime. This was one question here. The provision in force does not require any concrete suspicion of a criminal offence to be carried out in order to carry out safety inspections. Section 13 of Chapter 2 of the Police Act provides for security checks to be carried out. Paragraph 1 provides that the safety inspection is to be carried out by hand feeling, using a trained dog, using a metal detector or similar technical device or in a similar manner. Thus, a police dog can be used to carry out a security check on certain occasions and under the provisions in force. It's the dog that's a tool. According to the justification, the starting point should not be to check all persons arriving at an opportunity or accommodation. On the other hand, the explanatory statement states that it would be appropriate to use a trained police dog, for example, in large-scale events. The Police Dog Department has found in a report to the Deputy Ombudsman of the Parliament that, when a dog trained to detect the smell of the substance to be searched, he works in a so-called scent field to find the source of the traceable substance made relevant to it in the training. In this case, the dog will inevitably have to analyze and find the person from whom the smell comes. In legal literature, the advantage of a police dog or other trained dog has been considered to be that it causes the target person little harm if, otherwise, only a very thorough inspection of the substances or objects could be carried out. Paragraph 2 sets out the procedural principles for the submission of a safety inspection, which mainly include the principle of harm and the principle of discretion. Here too, the same applies that it must always be borne in mind that, according to the provisions of this law, inspection would only be carried out in the way and to the extent that the situation necessarily requires. This requires an assessment of the risks associated with the event and consideration of the proportionality of the inspection procedure, both in the context of the management of the police activities related to the event and in the conduct of an individual inspection measure. This now has to do with your questions, that is to say, it has a great deal of weight in management and in assessing whether this type of tool and activity are needed. Now to these other questions of yours. Special questions were asked about the supplementary police. After all, we have now had a working group and it will continue to work. After all, we have no such position of principle at this stage, because I have thought that the task force should now be allowed to do its job. I look forward to the result now, at the latest this spring, what they will say about this, and we have had the starting point that this would be a good system, but it must always look at all the training and resources and so on. In this context, I would like to thank the speakers for their contributions to the spending limits debate. The work has been done together within the government, and thanks go to everyone, including you, honourable Members of Parliament, who have spoken for this matter in your own groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u32	Let's continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u33	Madam President! Now that this goes to the committees and will certainly get a wide-ranging discussion and consultation, I would say to this Ombudsman's opinion so much that, when he states that there is a problem with this extension of the mandate for security inspections, I wonder, in the sense that the obligation of security supervision relating to a public event already involves the fact that people who come there know and understand that there may be such a special inspection or other, so there should be nothing new about it. Unfortunately, now that these risks have increased at such occasions, the fact that the police are there with or without the dog only creates a sense of security — and in Finland it is used to relying on good and dignified police action. That I don't see the problem in itself. I would like to return to this cooperation between security and police, that I believe it should be extended, that it is a huge resource that is in use, and also to the joint training that, in this changing situation, how can this security be combined?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u34	Mr President! The police have many tasks, including safeguarding the rule of law and social order and maintaining public order and security. The aim of this proposal is to increase the order and security of the events by enabling more comprehensive security checks to be carried out by the police in the area and in the vicinity of the events, which are now dealt with in the draft amendment to Chapter 2 of the Government Police Act. The aim is to increase public order and security in public events, inter alia, so that the police can effectively prevent the introduction of drugs into the areas of organisation by means of inspections. The aim is also to make it possible to fight more effectively against drug offences at public events by means of a procedure which will cause only minor harm to those involved in the event. The changes now being introduced will clarify the activities of the police. The extension of security controls to illegal objects and substances will enhance police work, especially at large public events, such as the music festivals, where inspections can be used more effectively to prevent the export of drugs to or from the festival area. In particular, the opening of procedures for carrying out safety inspections, such as the use of a police dog, will enhance the effectiveness of surveillance. At public events, the audience moves all the time inside and away from the event. According to the statement of the Police Government, "experimental police operational information, for example, also provides information on drugs from the places where the event is organised or in accommodations to the immediate vicinity. It is therefore necessary that the person present or in the immediate vicinity may be inspected. In addition, when using a scented dog, it is not possible to control the dog’s activity in such a way that it can smell people moving in only one direction from the mass of the general public.” Mr President! The draft law does not take a position on carrying out a security check at reception centres, and I would like to ask whether the reception centre can be interpreted as an event requiring special protection, or whether it is necessary to add a specific subject to the law and its protection when we know that many times there are many, hundreds of people in these facilities? In addition, according to the statement of the Police Government, "the interface between a special monitoring event and a private event is not sufficiently clear in the proposal. For example, in the field activities of the police, it should be known whether the right of inspection can be extended to persons arriving at a summer party of a motorcycle club that is classified as a criminal. The summer party of the motorcycle club is of a private nature, but its effects extend to the general area and the neighbourhood." I would also like to know more about this from the Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u35	Mr President! As we have been bitterly taught by the terrorist attacks throughout Europe and the migration of people based on asylum tourism as a fog screen of terrorist organisations, the security situation in Europe has deteriorated irreversibly. Finland is not an island in these increasing threats; on the contrary, it is probably a matter of time before Finland too, at the information conference after the attack, is forced to repeat the pan-European mantra that fear must not be given power. Before this threat, however, we must do everything in our power to ensure that no attack ever happens. Although the government's proposal to amend the police law is not directly linked to the current Islamic terrorism in Europe, it is still a necessary part of the list of security-enhancing measures that we are forced to take as a result of the deterioration of the internal security situation in Europe. The person who wants to cause destruction and suffering will be directed to the crowd and to public events, as European experience has taught us, so it is essential that the police have access to the most comprehensive security inspections — in this case, special protection or special supervision at events and events.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u36	Madam President! Police dog counselors, and in particular police officers who carry out drug control, have called for the use of a police dog to be extended to so-called sniffing. That is what we have been talking about today in several speeches. The present law and the present draft law do not directly make this possible, so I have understood the matter and the text of the draft law. Mr President! I hope, therefore, that, in the course of the committee hearing — at the latest, it will be examined — will this justify the use of a police dog by the police in such a way that the dog and the dog’s police officer are located, for example, near the gate to the event, below the wind, so that the dog can react after having received, for example, an explosive or the smell of a drug from the clothing or carrying of a passing person. When a dog, to put it in a professional language, marks someone, a dog counselor could then perform a more accurate safety check on this person. Mr President! This law is going to committee, and I think that we should consider and ruffle this in committee with such a tight screen that it will at the latest determine whether this is possible and, if so, record it in the committee report and clearly and clearly record it in the law so that the police working in the field do not have to interpret whether I have the right to use a dog or whether I do not have the right to use a dog and if I use a dog, then whether I will then have to write a reply to a complaint, if any. The rules of the game should be clear enough for policemen, but also for all other citizens, so that there is no risk of interpretation. It's gonna be a long and hot festival. I hope we can work this out before then. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now approaching the pre-agreed deadline of 3 p.m., so I would like to ask: if only 2 minutes of speeches are to be made, all four of them could be taken before we change the subject. Okay?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u38	Madam Speaker! This is the necessary legislation, as long as it is kept to a minimum, because the police, as has been said on many occasions, must have an adequate chance of guaranteeing the safety of Finns and of all those who are travelling here and who are involved in various events. I have just raised a few questions which have already been written in this bill in these Ombudsman's remarks. I am sure that in committee we should also pay particular attention to the definition of dangerous objects and other illegal objects, which supposedly refer to drugs in the main, that what is the danger to these other people in relation to these drugs? Of course, that human behavior changes after that, and that's what it is. But these remarks have been written there. Here too, with regard to the police dog and its use, there is a need to clarify what that means. It is also supposed to be necessary to clarify these other issues in the committee debate there. Finns are used to having their bags checked when events are organised, and underage alcohol checks have been carried out for decades to ask the bag to open and if you refuse to do so, you are asked to leave the place. In my opinion, this has been a very effective practice, and now we are going to tighten up the possibility. I repeat the need for a delimitation of the extent of the area outside its actual area of activity. For that we need more focus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u39	Mr President! I welcome Minister Risiko's answers to this supplementary police issue. The previous Minister for the Interior, Mr Orpohan, has already taken a positive view of the need for supplementary police officers, and he saw this in response to these new security threats and even saw these hybrid threats as content in their support for the introduction of the supplementary police system. There are a lot of such ancillary tasks that can be dealt with even with shorter training, such as traffic control, and there is a great deal of law enforcement which is not based on the use of force and where such a complementary system would also be necessary. After all, Minister of Defence Niinistö even went so far as to make a concrete suggestion that people with military police training could be used for such tasks. I also believe that it is a constructive proposal to ensure that this undisputed need to be present and to take care of public events or other forms of threat can be met and done in a sensible way with regard to the overall resources of society. After all, we can never make such a police system where, according to the scale of the peak of congestion, there would be enough people trained in all circumstances in advance. Such resources will not be available to us. So I hope that the Minister will be able to keep this on the agenda there and give strong political support to this working group and that it will then be properly brought to the public debate and to be evaluated, and also so that during this parliamentary term Parliament will be able to take decisions on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u40	Mr President! This amendment of the law will have a clarifying and harmonising effect on the enforcement and inspection activities of the police on opportunities. Complementing the provisions on the current and regional dimension of the right of security inspection would remove any doubt as to the situation in which a police officer is entitled to carry out a security check at events and events. In this context, I hope that the concerns raised by Mr Hongisto in his recent speech will be taken seriously and clarified as to the circumstances in which a dog can and may indeed be used. The most important thing for our society is that we should be able to create better conditions for guaranteeing order and security at a wide variety of events and events.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u41	Mr President! It is clear that more police powers will certainly bring about safer opportunities. However, it is a fact that we still have far too few police officers. Drugs and drug dogs have been raised several times in this debate. Now I can tell you that we also have drugs that your dog can't smell, or if you can smell them, the police can't take them off because they're drugs and they're prescription granted. If a person has a prescription for the drug he has, though the drug is being used, digested and injected, then it cannot be taken away, that is just the way it is. In addition, police would be needed for online commerce, there would be huge quantities of drugs, and there would also be a search for small factories producing synthetic drugs. Then we have a big problem with cannabis, which will probably come up at some point. After all, we have legal cannabis and illegal cannabis, and that is also quite unsustainable at the moment, and there are also a particularly large number of crops. In order for the police to intervene — not just at the public gatherings, which are the top of this iceberg — it would be a good thing to raise this additional police force again and see what tasks the supplementary police could do. It would be easy to imagine that on small-scale events — somewhere, it is said, in the Vaasa market — there could be a police officer if traffic control is needed there, for example, when old cars drive there or something like that. It would actually get policemen to do the right police work, the work that the police who sit in this room are trained to do. We have highly trained, good police officers, who solve very serious and difficult and difficult issues, but they must be given the opportunity to do their job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u42	And before the minister, Mr. Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u43	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Risiko and the government for a very good government proposal. More money for the police — that is good and necessary. Similarly, an increase in the resources of the protection police — that is correct. Investing in safety is a line that I am sure no one will object to. The help of dogs in official work and in assisting people is invaluable and has been increasing widely. The challenges of the police profession have grown steadily in today’s world. It is also important to invest in the survival of the police, as well as in the well-being of the police dogs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u46	Secretary Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u47	Madam President! Thank you again for these questions. Indeed, the question was raised here about the behaviour of a drug dog, and I am going to make it more specific when it was asked whether it could move anywhere, in the Vappouters and so on, that it should be remembered that there is no universal competence and that it is a restricted area. But in the same breath, I would also like to point out that the safety check could therefore be carried out not only at events requiring special protection, but also at an event requiring special supervision, and the need for specific controls could relate, for example, to the specific nature of the event or to the reasonable suspicion that those taking part in the event have possession of prohibited articles and substances within the meaning of the regulations. But I would point out that a limited area is at stake in this law. Then there was the question of that resource. I fully agree with your comment that, in addition to the need for these financial resources, there is also a need for the division of labour and the question whether the police are, for example, keepers of a lost and found goods office, and whether it is the responsibility of the police, for example, if there is a lot of substance abuse problems in the region, to keep the prisoners and those who are intoxicated. I do not think that there is a great deal to be done here, because when it was stated here at the time that there were quite a large number of police officers in the Administrative Committee, it must be remembered that we do not have a reserve, we only have a small number of unemployed, about 21 people, which is certainly not the reserve. This is a great achievement that this government wants to keep about 7,200 police officers today. I would like to emphasise that money alone is not the answer. We must have the powers of the police, and that is the role of the legislation that is now being done in this government proposal, and then also in performance, and it must be developed all the time. I would also like to point out that this behaviour of a drug dog and how to deal with a dog will certainly be heard in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u48	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u49	Mr President! I am pleased to present to Parliament today the reform of vocational education and training. We have prepared the proposal for almost two years together with training experts and stakeholders. Over 1500 people have participated in the preparatory work at different stages, and I thank everyone for their contributions. The reform of vocational education and training renews the entire vocational education and training system. Legislation on vocational education, financial, management and qualifications will be reformed. Vocational education and training will be created as a new competence-based and individualised study path-based entity. This is the largest legislative project in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture for a few decades. The proposed changes would enter into force from the beginning of next year, 2018. The reform ensures the availability of skilled workers and responds to the rapidly changing skills needs of working life. Reform enables more individualised study paths for both young people and adults who are already working. Reform aims to ensure the implementation of the education guarantee and to reduce the drop-out of education, so that every young person can go to secondary education and build his/her own future. Reform will significantly increase the flexibility of education and reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden on education. Knowledge-based skills become part of all vocational education and training. A vocational qualification would be completed in one evidence-based way in the future in practical work situations. The previously acquired competence of the student is taken into account as part of the studies and the education focuses on acquiring the missing competence. This will reduce training periods, especially for adult students, who already have previous work experience and possibly training. Practical learning is at the heart of the reform of vocational education and training. Workplace learning will be increased and a new training agreement will be introduced to support training pathways, especially for young people. In the future, the main forms of training at the workplace would be apprenticeship training and training based on a training contract. The attractiveness of apprenticeship training as a form of education will be strengthened by raising its financial position to the same level as education in educational institutions. The reform also allows for flexible transitions between the education contract, the apprenticeship agreement and study in the educational institution. The structure of vocational education and training qualifications will also be reformed. The degree structure will move to more extensive degrees, and the number of degrees will decrease from the current 350 qualifications to approximately 160 degrees. Students are offered better opportunities to specialise in the course of their studies and to acquire the skills they need. The aim is for the structure of qualifications to be more flexible and more responsive to changes in working life. The reform of vocational education and training is also one of the most important deregulation projects of the government. It gives the organisers a great deal of responsibility and freedom to organise the training. Time is freed from administration and duplication of work in the development of education. Vocational education and training moves towards a single permit for the organisation of education. In addition, training providers will be able to decide more freely on the provision of training in such a way that training serves the needs of the region as well as possible. The main route of applying for vocational education and training is a continuous search, which would allow flexible access to training throughout the year. A joint application organised each year in the spring would remain the path of vocational education and training for the decision-making age group of basic education and for others with no vocational qualifications after the basic level. This would contribute to ensuring the implementation of the training guarantee. The financing system for vocational education and training will be reformed into a single entity by combining the existing separate funding systems. The financial system would consist of four financial elements: core funding, performance funding, effectiveness funding and strategy funding. The focus of funding would be significantly shifted to qualifications and parts of the degree, as well as to employment or placement in further studies, rather than counting the time spent in studies. The aim of the reform of the financial system is to strengthen the completion of the education, reduce the interruption and secure adequate support for each student to complete the studies. In the mid-term debate that ended yesterday, the government showed a significant investment of more than EUR 400 million in knowledge, education and research. The Government will allocate EUR 15 million to the implementation of the vocational education reform and support for the providers of education and the construction of individual study paths in 2018 and 2019. In addition, the Government prepares to capitalise a centre of expertise developing the learning environment of vocational education and training by EUR 80 million. The new methods will be disseminated to all organisers. Big future decisions. Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training has been carried out in a difficult economic environment, but the reform is expected and necessary in the field of education. It will provide training organisers with the tools to respond to future skills needs and better target resources to education and the implementation of training needs in the region. The reform of vocational education and training enables the planning of individual study paths and the individual needs of students to be taken into account, thus reducing the drop-out of education and the marginalisation of young people. In turn, closer cooperation with working life increases the effectiveness of education and strengthens the employment of students. In addition, working life receives the professionals it needs, which boosts the growth of the Finnish economy. I am pleased that today Finnish vocational education and training is taking a big step forward with this proposal, and I hope that it will have the wind in the parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u50	Mr President! This reform proposal for vocational education and training is historically extensive and significant. I take it seriously and we take it with appreciation in principle. These objectives for reform, which the Minister for Education has just explained, are mainly good and worthy of support. Of course, increasing learning and learning in the workplace is important and valuable, and likewise this knowledge-based approach. The Committee on Education is facing a very large, important and huge task, as we are now looking at this government proposal of 500 pages over the next few weeks. In the past, a few months ago, I have read through the draft that was in the statement. Now this proposal, which has now come, has not been so carefully read and I will, of course, go through the changes that have been made along the way. But in general, I understand that it has gone for the better. By the way, I would like to say something quite important at the outset about this structural aspect. It is also a point in which the Council of State's own opinion on the legislation of the Council of State intervened by making a certain critical observation. The same was said by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. Do you know what that is? It has to do with the fact that we would have liked to have described the entire secondary education system and the necessary changes. Thus, in education for young people, upper secondary and vocational education should be a seamless continuum for those who finish basic education, and we believe that the structure of the education system should be brought closer rather than differentiated. So the cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education is a step towards modern culture and professional education. In this regard, it can be said that, alongside the objective of the Government Programme — now to focus solely on vocational training — it would have been advisable to have a closer look at this whole second stage. Now that this government proposal has gone through, of course this important double degree is brought up, for example, the completion of the matriculation examination and, for example, the basic metal degree, but would have preferred and hoped that it would have been in such a more structured reading more widely and more. I believe that the Committee on Education is going to have to look at it, and it is necessary that it now looks a little further than this middle school and also takes this postgraduate qualification and postgraduate course to university of applied sciences and higher education for example. Then we will probably all share the concern now that these big savings have been made, that the atmosphere that is now is not understandably the best possible. That is why I now believe that we must ensure this quality of education. It is the most important thing for us Social Democrats in this further debate — how to ensure quality, quality control, its monitoring, adequate contact teaching and contact teaching. Also, teaching changes. We now need enough good teachers as well. They also have to do much more work and work in the workplace. We must have enough teachers and also teachers' posts. And then, hey, one of the most important things: in the debate that has already taken place, when we know the studies and studies, According to the University of Applied Sciences, these savings may lead to the closure of approximately 130 offices. What does it have to do with the position of young people, with potential exclusion as journeys and distances are growing? Now we are going to have to look very carefully at this issue in committee, how to get a system of governance that allows us to continue to talk about national education policy when we talk about vocational education and training. Mr President, was this for five minutes? [President MariaLohela :10 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u55	Madam President! Vocational school reform is a very important reform for young people. More than half of Finnish young people are going to vocational school as future experts. In the context of this reform, I have sought above all to reduce the social exclusion of young people. At present, about 15 per cent of each age group is missing a secondary degree. We currently have well over 100,000 young people between the ages of 20 and 29 without a secondary degree. The huge drop-out statistics on vocational schools clearly show the need for reform. Now this bill provides the tools to reach these young people. That's good, but it's not enough. It is extremely important that the teachers are activated to use the tools provided. The wording of the laws in the Ministry alone does not change anything; it is the grass-roots level that determines. Mr President! Many young people who have dropped out of vocational school are those for whom class education is ill-suited. The reform will shift the focus of all studies through practical learning. It's not about sitting in a class that counts. It's about being in a class. It's about being in a class. This improves the survival of young people learning through doing things in vocational school. In addition, consideration should be given to young people who are at risk of being overly challenged in the form of educational education in any case. Solutions tailored to these young people have been developed in the third sector. One of them is the Light Training Model. In light training, one organization takes responsibility for the whole life of a young person. Problems at school are often caused by something other than an educational institution, such as a relationship crisis in life, substance abuse or homelessness. In the light model, young people get support from one place in all areas of life. Studies are organised not at school, but directly at a workshop or workplace, and competence is shown on screen at an educational institution. Until now, cooperation between Valo training and vocational schools has not been entirely unproblematic. Among other things, educational institutions have charged high fees for receiving skills displays. The Government proposal is now abolishing fees and giving educational institutions great freedom to obtain appropriate services from third sector operators. Article 124 of the proposal obliges providers of training to cooperate with the third sector. The detailed explanatory statement of the article states, inter alia: "In addition, the obligation to cooperate would extend to public bodies engaged in youth work and to private communities and foundations engaged in youth work. In this context, the obligation could mean, for example, that training providers, in cooperation with youth workers, would explore the possibility of supporting the progress of students' studies at risk of dropping out through the provision of services from youth workers." It is extremely important that educational institutions make the most of these opportunities for cooperation. The cooperation will lead to the best results, and the new funding system will also provide a strong reward for the educational institutions. I would like to see that the committee should seriously consider further recording this cooperation in the legislation. This would ensure that the situation of students at risk of being suspended is in reality always addressed. At present, according to Article 42, it is the task of the educational institution to refer the student to a more suitable service if he or she intends to discontinue the training for no reasonable reason. I believe that this alone is not enough. Above all, we must invest in preventing suspension. The obligation to advise the suspension is necessary. However, Rinna needs an obligation for the educational institution to investigate appropriate support services also outside the institution before the interruption takes place and according to the need and motivation of the student to obtain them for the student. Such an obligation would ensure that cooperation with youth work does not remain mere rhetorical, but that its possibilities are systematically explored for each student under the threat of suspension. As legislators, we will certainly also be monitoring the effects of the reform, including the development of cooperation between educational institutions with both the organisation and the business sector. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the mid-term debate agreed on strengthening and extending the cabs. We need to bring those young people into society. In the Youth Guarantee Task Force, we have already discussed this issue further. I therefore look forward to the Minister continuing to move in the direction that: In the future, the cabs will also be transferred to repair shops, making the fields of the actors working with the third sector that take full account of all the needs of young people and help them to study to the finish line and to survive in the rest of their lives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u56	Mr President! The Government has marketed vocational education reform as the largest educational reform, which has been done in Finland for decades. It may well be, because it is an extremely comprehensive and comprehensive legislative reform. The development of vocational education and training is certainly to be welcomed, but the Left Alliance's view remains that the government has made an irreversible mistake when, at the same time, it cuts funding for education providers significantly. These financial cuts make it difficult to achieve the good objectives of the reform of vocational education and training and, unfortunately, affect the nature of the reform as a whole. The Left Alliance attaches the utmost importance to improving the quality of vocational education and training and to paying particular attention to it in this reform. The popularity of vocational education and training has been increasing, but the decrease in the number of hours spent in local education has had a negative impact on the quality of education. Without a sufficient number of contact teaching, students will not be given the necessary professional skills and the real eligibility for further education will be jeopardised. Students on the vocational side are young as other young people, and they must also have the right to a high-quality study environment, a study community and functional student care. Changes in working life must also be taken into account in the development of vocational education and training. Workers today are required to adapt more quickly to varying work situations and tasks and to be prepared to continuously update their own skills. It is therefore important that vocational education and training provide adequate education and general sectoral skills. The reform of the qualification structure to move towards more extensive qualifications supports this objective, but at the same time we must ensure that sufficient specialisation is ensured. Knowledge of English and knowledge of different software are already important in the manufacturing industry in Finland today. This also underscores the importance of general education studies on the professional side. From this point of view, too, it is essential to ensure the adequacy of local education and general education. One of the objectives of the government is also to increase workplace learning. It is to be implemented by means of a model under the name of a training contract, which in practice means that the number and length of periods of learning at work will be increased. There are a number of problems and risks involved. Firstly, responsibility for the education of young people, for the guidance of young people and also for the evaluation of the learning of young people must not and cannot be outsourced to employers. As pointed out in the previous speech, it is also unclear whether employers have the capacity and willingness to assume greater responsibility for vocational education and training for young people, as there are already messages in the field that there are no job-learning places for all students. In our view, the training agreement should also have been further limited so that it does not create a way of using young people as free labour or a way of outsourcing education responsibility for reasons of austerity. The quality of work learning must therefore also be taken care of in the reform process. In the Left Alliance, we would also have liked to have seen the development of workplace learning through apprenticeship training, such as the 2+1 model, which has been piloted quite successfully in many educational institutions across Finland, as far as I know. A major change in the financing of vocational education and training will also be made in connection with the reform. In the future, the share of basic funding would be 50% and the share of performance funding would be 35%. The basis for the performance funding would be the completed qualifications and parts of the degree. This involves, according to many experts, a clear risk that vocational institutions will be encouraged to invest in well-performing students and that, in principle, only certain graduates will be sought as students. The share of basic funding should therefore be increased and, in the context of the reform, care should also be taken to ensure that this change in the financial system does not result in students most in need of support being left without it. Adequate basic funding will increase the predictability of funding and will not allow education leading to a qualification, as well as adequate guidance and local education for all. Mr President! Vocational education is an important part of the Finnish education system, and it directly affects both the overall level of competence of the workforce and the well-being and everyday life of young students. The major cuts in the funding of vocational education and training implemented by the Government also have a negative impact on the reform of content. The additional funding of 15 million decided in yesterday's mid-term debate for this reform of vocational education and training is in no way sufficient to compensate for the 190 million cuts in vocational education and training funding. In fact, I would also like to ask the Minister what the capitalisation of 80 million decided on yesterday in practice means and how to ensure that this money is not used specifically on walls, but that the benefits can also be directed towards improving the quality of education and increasing the number of local education. Reform's objectives of individualising study paths and increasing learning in the workplace sound as such to be good goals, but, in the context of scarce resources, both risks becoming savings that reduce the local education and quality, guided education and pedagogical support of those studying on the vocational side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u57	Congressman Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u58	Mr President! In my own speech, I am trying to respond a little to these points. It is great that this week we have finally received a long-awaited government proposal on vocational training reform here in Parliament. The proposal is an important structural reform which has been prepared in close cooperation with the field of vocational education and training. The present proposal contains many good elements, such as competence-based, personalisation, learning in working life, a more effective financial system and clearer legislation governing activities. The aim of the reform of vocational education and training is to meet the challenges of passing education and the skills needs of future working life. At the heart of the reform is the student, on whose terms the proposal has been prepared with determination. The transition to a single law will improve freedom and flexibility to meet different skills needs. In the future, flexible access to education throughout the year will make it much easier to complete supplementary studies or to change the field. Personalisation, i.e. a personal curriculum, will be used to plan each student's own study path, including guidance and support activities. The reform of the vocational education and training system aims at acquiring more extensive skills. The number of degrees falls from 351 to 164, and students will be specialised within the qualifications. The reform of the degree structure increases students' freedom of choice in the planning of studies. Comprehensive school graduates who do not have a degree would continue to study mainly for the entire degree, but otherwise the new skills needs will be met by supplementing the previously learned part of the degree. In the future, it will be possible to create more individualised learning paths in vocational education and training. Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training will increase learning in the workplace. This strengthens the development of students' professional skills. Learning in the workplace does not shift the responsibility of the organiser of education from students to workplaces. The steering of students will be strengthened through the development of cooperation between teachers and workplace instructors. The new training contract model also provides an excellent tool for increasing workplace learning. The training agreement would replace the current model of work-based learning. For example, the concerns expressed by Mr Gustafsson have largely been answered after the consultation and the law has been changed. In practice, the training contract is always agreed on a part-time basis and in the workplace it is necessary to learn the things agreed on in a personal curriculum, which means that those tasks are agreed in such a way that they can achieve precisely the skills that are set as objectives. In addition, the student receives guidance and support at the workplace from both workplace instructors and a responsible director appointed by the organiser of the training. All competence assessors have also been defined by law. In addition, the organisers of the training are obliged to familiarise the assessors of working life with the assessment of their competence. Another concern expressed was the maintenance of the ability or eligibility for further education. All vocational qualifications will continue to produce general postgraduate qualifications for polytechnics and universities. The possibility to complete upper secondary school studies is also maintained, as is the right to take part in a matriculation examination. In the course of vocational education and training, further learning capacities will be strengthened in a variety of ways. Initial vocational qualifications include compulsory joint qualifications for all students, which strengthen the knowledge of, among other things, the mother tongue, another national language, foreign languages and mathematics. This is how it can be said that general education will also be strengthened. In addition, studies that improve joint qualifications, upper secondary school studies or other postgraduate qualifications could be included as optional parts of the degree in the initial vocational qualification. Students of vocational and specialist qualifications can complete joint qualifications as separate parts of a degree if necessary. Mr President! The reform of the financial system is aimed at strengthening effectiveness. Half of the funding would come in the future according to the number of students. In addition, 35% of funding would come from performance funding for qualifications and their components. The remaining 15% would be so-called effectiveness funding, influenced for example by feedback from students and the employment of students. The proposed funding system encourages education providers to take care of each student and assists in the progress of studies. In addition, vocational training institutions should thus be encouraged to provide training in sectors where there is a need for labour. The current financial system does not contribute to this excellent objective. That is also why the reform is very welcome. In addition, as a comment on the concern that the cuts made would completely water down the reforms made to the financial systems or that there would not be sufficient scope for future studies: This concern is also alleviated by the fact that the financial reform will be carried out in stages. In the following years, between 2018 and 2019, the basic funding rate will be 95 % and in the following two years 70 % and 60 %. The gradual transition will give organisers time to adapt the current system more to the new financial system that focuses on efficiency and effectiveness. Mr President! This is a long-awaited reform in the field of vocational education and training. It is high time that old structures and practices were updated to meet today's challenges. I am glad that we are finally able to discuss this important reform in this Chamber, and of course it would have been great to have done this before, but it would have been better late than never.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u59	Now everyone who wants to make a reply can take the floor, and I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u60	Mr President! The pretty good process here is really behind us. A couple of years ago, the government negotiations took over the basic pillars of reform and then the reform has been carried out together with the field. I believe that, partly as a result, the field is now behind the reform and is even expected to do so. This work, which has now been done in the Ministry, also deserves a big thank-you to officials, has been heavily worked under the leadership of Director-General Tammillehto. If you raise a few key points: This personalization does contain quite a lot now. In part, I expect answers to that concern for local education. Now that each individual study path is personally planned, that means that one person is more involved in traditional school-based work, while the other person may be more involved in the workplace. Financial systems will be reformed, incentives will have to be given for closer training, barriers will be dismantled, red tape will be dismantled. A very big reform is therefore at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u61	Mr President! We have the same concerns as before in this reform. Of course, we are very grateful that the reform is here at last and finally, and we understand that it is not the Minister's fault that it has not come before. But the concern is quality — how can quality be safeguarded in these changing circumstances? The quality for us is that there is local education for those who need it, not for everyone. I think it is good in this reform: if not, then let us not. Then, regional accessibility: how can we secure this when we cut it so severely? Then the treatment of the special groups: what will happen with this reform of the special groups? Then I really hope that the committee will have enough time to deal with this comprehensive package now that it came so late in Parliament. This is a huge reform, and it is the first time that the opposition really has the opportunity to look into it and hear about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u62	Mr President! There are a lot of good things in this reform, but there are a lot of concerns about the transition of learning to workplaces in particular: Will there be enough of these places of work learning, and what kind of learning will be there at the workplace? There is a fear that it can sometimes be nothing but stocking shelves or making coffee. Is there enough guidance in the workplace? And how, on the other hand, the resources that have been reduced by the savings of educational institutions are sufficient to provide guidance for teachers in the workplace — this has been a matter of concern. The situation of pupils with special support is also worrying — do employers also want to offer them places to study at work because they obviously need more guidance than others? Mr President! Many graduates want to continue at university of applied sciences later, and this is, of course, an excellent thing. But it has already been said that the level of mathematics, mother tongue or language is not always sufficient, and these additional courses cost nothing, they are always away from something else. It is therefore a concern whether the theoretical level of competence of polytechnic graduates is sufficiently high after the reform or whether, after the reform, vocational school students are lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u63	Mr President! Vocational education and training needs this reform. One of its gems is a personal study path. Learning to learn skills in education and verification of competence in practical work is a great opportunity to convince your own skills. Strengthening cooperation between businesses and schools is a key practical challenge and will contribute to the success of the major reform. Adequate resources must be made available to educational institutions and businesses should be encouraged to engage in cooperation. So I ask the Minister: how will cooperation between educational institutions and businesses be promoted?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u64	Mr President! Of course, the rapporteur must praise the proposal, and it is a welcome reform as such, but this amount of praise was quite different from what has previously been estimated by the OAJ and the professional student organisation, for example. Perhaps it has also improved in the final stages of their vision. But I must say that I am most concerned about whether there will be further learning and the role of education, the role of local education. The Minister also stressed that jobs were given skilled labour. It is a good goal, but it is a good one, but it is not just a matter of quick and self-conscious effort to produce workers for jobs and the labour market, but it is also about contact teaching, contact teaching, education, language teaching and so on. We need to create a broad range of socially viable and capable citizens at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u65	Mr President! Firstly, the Social Democrats are in favour of a reform of vocational education and training. But what we do not support is that the government was genuinely authorised to cut off the places where vocational training started. It seems to me to be irresponsible at a time when we should assume that secondary education will be compulsory for young people and free of charge. Now we are going in the direction that it is very difficult to regard this reform as a structural reform. Another very shocking fact has now also been that, once the so-called financial system side of the legislation has been completed, this savings law will have a rather gruesome face. In fact, the reform of vocational education and training has become a savings law, which means that the prevention of exclusion and the traditional lack of education must not be tackled here, not in the financial system, and I am particularly sorry about that. Finally, I would like to say that you, Minister, are now going to provide the calculation explaining how the starting points will be divided in Finland in the future, how many starting places ended with this reform and in which places it ended. This reform is therefore from this point of view:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u66	Madam President! After all, vocational education aims at the profession. In that case, competence-basedness, the replacement of missing know-how and practicality are important issues. At the moment, many companies are already training directly: if I look at my own province, the car factory, the shipyard and so on, when they no longer receive labour directly through training. That is why it is good that the reform is going in this direction and that business cooperation is increasing. I also welcome with joy this dismantling of standards that is taking place here. It's important. Mr Gustafsson referred to the teachers. Even as a former professional teacher — and that was a short time ago — I do see this aspect as very important. It is also important, of course, to ensure that the availability of vocational education and training in the sub-regions remains adequate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u67	Mr President! As has been pointed out above, there is a lot of good in this reform, but there are a lot of concerns about it too, and that is not the least of it, however, how this funding is genuinely organised, now that huge cuts have been made and what was given back is very small. We know that more and more young people will certainly have to study many jobs and change jobs, and that is why it is extremely important that this vocational education and training is given strong basic skills. Therefore, the fact that it is mainly transferred to companies does give rise to its concern — depending on the company — how good skills can be provided there and whether they are strong skills such that if you move to another type of firm, even in the same field, then it is sufficient knowledge. We need to pay attention to this. Of course, the responsibility for education must remain in schools, and the number of places to start cannot be cut anymore and regional access must be ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u68	Mr President! We must now be somewhat surprised at the fact that companies are involved in training, but we know that the biggest pain spots in our education system are the problem of matching education and working life, i.e. that we have a university that produces unemployed doctors and that the vocational school system is fragmented and detached from working life and that the graduates are very far from the finished worker. As a good example: The New Town Car Factory recruits a workforce for training with good condition and a desire to learn. We claim that this country has the best education system in the world, but yet the professional school does not produce the kind of experts who can assemble Mercedes, but the company has to train its employees themselves. Unfortunately, this is the case in many small businesses that the training process provided by society not only produces employees suitable for the company's needs, but also has to be trained themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u69	Before the Minister, Mr Essayah and Mrs Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u70	Madam President! It has to be said to Mr Mäkelä that the wider and better the educational background there in vocational education and training, the easier and lighter the company will then be able to cope with precisely the specific training needed, for example, to produce a particular car brand, and in that sense the concern that exists in this Chamber relates specifically to the quality of vocational education and training. And we have also been concerned about whether the business field has been sufficiently listened to, whether the jobs are meaningful enough for all the students that are now being brought into the business. In itself, as many colleagues have said, there is a great deal of good here. These are the individual study paths, this flexibility, but at the same time these concerns cannot be swept under the carpet. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to overcome some of our concerns and explain how, for example, these types of issues have been taken into account: regional accessibility has been raised and then local education has been raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u71	Mr President! I drew attention to that rather naive concept of apprenticeship training. We are all in favour of apprenticeship training, which is not a problem. We are not necessarily in favour of the whole age group starting to attend apprenticeships. It's a completely different perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u72	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes, and then we'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u73	Mr President! Thank you for your feedback. There were many positive comments on the details of this reform and constructive development proposals, comments on this implementation. And then, of course, there were also some concerns that sounded familiar and are the very issues that have been addressed in this reform, even on the basis of the feedback. Perhaps what is essential in this reform is the understanding of the rapid change in working life. In other words, in the future, Finland, as in the world as a whole, needs more and more know-how. Without training, you can't do it anymore. We need to be able to build a system that guarantees the quality and competence of education and also keeps everyone involved — that is to say, a strong focus also on preventing the exclusion of young people and reducing young people who are not in education and working life. The second challenge has, of course, been the strict economic environment in which this reform has been carried out. But all the more important when it comes to operating in an economic environment that poses major challenges for us, is the cooperation that has been made during this reform with the field of vocational education and training. From the beginning of next year, insofar as Parliament approves this reform according to the timetable, education organisers will be given more tools to ensure the organisation and quality of education. I would like to inform Parliament on some of the basic elements. The training guarantee is strictly adhered to, a place of education is secured for everyone who has completed comprehensive school. Similarly, we attach great importance to the fact that vocational education and training is well accessible at regional level. It is true that with this reform, as in the past, the educational network is somewhat condensed, but according to a study by the Ministry of Education and Culture, this is especially the case in southern Finland, where distances are reasonable. It is certainly in everyone's interest, above all, to make the best possible use of resources for teaching, especially for students' support, and to seek their financial savings and efficiency in the use of space and structures. Further learning is ensured. Students are not going to be pushed into jobs, but workplace learning is also an important part of how students will become increasingly involved in working life in the future and get a foot in between the door to work. A job can therefore be a learning environment. Two ways of learning at work are identified by this reform: apprenticeship training, which already has a lot of experience, and then a training contract, which is a specific form of learning in the workplace for young people, and it highlights in particular that the responsibility for learning lies with the organiser of education, cannot be outsourced to the workplace, but also the organiser is responsible for the quality of education. As far as that quality is concerned, it has been given a great deal of attention in this reform. The quality of student competence will be ensured in a variety of ways, starting from nationally defined qualifications and from the quality management systems of the organiser of education to the assessment of individual student competence. And the new financial system also takes account of quality, because employment and the transition to further studies are strong criteria. In other words, balance has been sought through these reforms in order to safeguard in Finland the professional skills required for future working life, and then also for individuals a wide range of opportunities to develop their own know-how and cope with changes in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u74	We're going to have to keep this thing going for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u75	Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training is in itself welcome that we need a working life-oriented approach and learning at the workplace. There are definitely a lot of good things here, but it must be said that when there are huge cuts at the bottom and just these individual learning paths and personal grips on teaching, it does take resources. I hope that the government will look into this. I am also thinking about the view that, when a lot of education is transferred to companies, which is to be welcomed, when we have seen how young people have been brought into employment through apprenticeship training in Germany, is it ensured, however, that companies have sufficient interest in providing quality jobs and who is in charge of the resources, after all, that a good business suitable for every young person can be created as a place of education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u76	Mr President! We all think that this personalization is a very good thing, and I think that this will also serve these particularly supportive students, whom we had previously talked about. That is, personalization also gives them more time, for example, if they are slower to learn. I therefore think that it cannot be in the interests of the organiser of education to send everyone to an apprenticeship, even those who do not succeed there in the apprenticeship. In other words, it will only be sent to or approved by their plan if it is estimated that these educational objectives will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u77	Mr President! Of course, this personalization is not a magic word. I attach this kind of pedagogical leadership and teacher ethics to it, but just against this background, of course, these significant savings are some kind of problem because teachers are now being reduced and reduced to over a thousand, and it has to be seen. That is why I think that we in the Committee on Education and Rural Development should actually apply for some indicators or a monitoring system to guarantee this. In practice, that leaves very much to the individual teacher when he does that personal program, and I think that experience now shows that this responsibility has not been adequately borne in practice. And that's why we now have the responsibility of a thousand dollars.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u78	Mr President! This current system, this current vocational education and training, does not adequately meet the needs of working life. I have received feedback that this is particularly visible in the workplace, for example in the process industry, that there are clear gaps in basic science. Of course, it is clear that vocational training cannot make up for them, neither the present system nor the future, so that problem must be addressed there. I would like to ask the Minister how attractive and attractive vocational training is in these German-speaking countries, where this apprenticeship is very popular: would the education agreement and apprenticeship in Finland now increase attractiveness and attractiveness and, at the same time, for example, for boys to complete their studies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u79	Mr President! Even in the field of vocational education and training, we expect this reform with some rather contradictory emotions, just as we do in this Chamber, because of these huge savings and cuts that have been made. This response by Mr Puumala that, through personalisation, some students would receive less local education, that is to say, even less from the current level, does not dispel the concerns we have in the Left Alliance regarding this reform. It is also important to note that when we talk about eligibility for further education, we are not only talking about formal eligibility for further education — it is extremely important and self-evident to maintain it in my opinion — but also about real eligibility for further education, i.e. whether students actually get the real qualifications they need to be able to study at and continue to study at a higher education level. As far as this financial reform is concerned, I think it makes sense, when it comes to the big reform, to move on gradually, but it does not respond to the criticism of this new financial system and its functioning. Is there now a risk that in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u80	Mr President! Just a couple of comments. First of all, whether or not young people are being abandoned, whether young people are being pushed into working life in any way. That is certainly not what this is about. It is one of the tools in the training provider's toolbox, and it is always viewed on a case-by-case basis each time. I personally believe that, at this point in time of departure, we will have more of a challenge in genuinely getting change moving, that the job actually becomes a tool for that training. I don't think there's a huge rush going on here that's worth a lot of fear right now, that's what I'm thinking. And then you have to be able to shape the reform when we see as an experiment what happens. You have to be prepared to constantly modify it. I should like to highlight those decisions of yesterday. I think it will improve this feeling on the ground now that we have obtained the 15 million professional package, and even bigger as a whole then the EUR 80 million capitalisation decision, which I think will be the first decision to capitalise on the vocational training side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u81	Mr President! As Mr Andersson said, these funding criteria may lead to schools thinking that those who graduate quickly and find employment quickly are their productive students. This can then lead to educational institutions wanting to select students only those who were previously very successful in their studies. At its worst, this can even lead to the wrong competition between educational institutions. The Legislative Evaluation Council has also drawn its attention to this issue, which is that their opinion states that the draft law does not adequately assess the social impact. The Evaluation Council also noted that in particular the impact of the reform should have been assessed on the achievement of the educational function of the whole age group, and this assessment has not been sufficiently carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u82	Chairman! It is, of course, great that we still have all spring in the Committee on Education to consult experts, and I am sure that many of the questions that have been raised here will be answered. But just a few of those shots that have come in here. Among other things, I think Mr Eloranta said that students might then make coffee at the workplace. This is exactly what I was trying to say in my previous speech: that this is a requirement enshrined in the law, a requirement of competence for assessors, and, on the other hand, that the study modules that are being carried out there at the workplace, which are taught there, must respond to the personalisation plan and must respond to the need for knowledge. If you study as an auto mechanic, then you will certainly not get that qualification by making coffee, and therefore you cannot accept it, so that it is at least pointless to worry about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u83	Mr President! Many young people are allowed to leave their home for the first time for vocational education and training, which means that in many places there are no such vocational training. Indeed, when we talk about study paths, it should in practice also be known that not all young people are able to take up school places there, many young people need that important support at an early stage, others do not necessarily understand the theory or this working life. I mean that schools should have a responsibility to understand how to take every young person personally and give him the path of study. If this is correctly understood in schools, then these drop-outs in schools will be reduced and exclusions will be reduced. When a young person has had such a strong hold on the school from the beginning, they also study and want to have this readiness
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u84	Mr President! This bringing together provisions on vocational education and training in a single law is an excellent thing. This is also part of the deregulation projects, and in most cases it is good, but of course it is good to ask whether it is worth dismantling something that has brought Finland to the world map. There are a number of problems here: municipal funding is being frozen at 2017 level, 130 offices are closing down, regional inequalities are increasing, linguistic rights are being jeopardised when offices are cut off, jobs in work are not enough, the number of hours spent in local education is falling, the conditions for immigrants to learn are deteriorating, and so on. It would be unfortunate if this law, in addition to this 190 million operation, eventually hatches out a new law on surgery. This must be prevented here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u85	Mr President! Somehow I feel that I and the honourable Minister have different papers on which we read, because in my opinion this paper does not in any way prevent exclusion or uneducated, so that it does not drop away. This is where this funding base is a little problematic, with 50% of basic funding, 35% of performance funding and 15% of effectiveness funding. Is this the case that, when more than one third of this funding comes from qualifications, i.e. from completed qualifications or whole parts of a degree, the educational institutions will start to screen more closely the students they take in, that is, if it is feared that the student will need more instruction and guidance, he will not be admitted because there is no possibility of giving that instruction and guidance? This is not the kind of student you should take in, which may not be able to complete your full training with these foods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u86	Mr President! It is a little unusual to hear a debate about the fact that somehow the current model would work in terms of how it serves regions today, especially the needs of working life, when we currently have a strong labour shortage in northern Finland, for example. For example, at present there are dozens of jobs in many sectors that are waiting for experts specifically from vocational education and training institutions, but when there are not enough graduates, let alone applicants, in the region. And it is clear that it is precisely in companies that we need to work more closely together to learn that the degree in relation to the future job will be carried out. This is also a clear message from young people that they are currently not getting enough skills in vocational training because they are not being recruited by companies or have to be trained for a long time. Then this learning in the workplace in the future: I don’t know a single entrepreneur and employer who wants a student there to make coffee. They're looking very hard, aren't they?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u87	Mr President! I am thinking about this reform in the sense that when you start studying at the workplace, how can you do it there? I have at least 35 years of experience: when you look at the way jobs have developed in terms of staffing, you don't want to have enough of those resources to teach a young person and the company can't actually afford to hire that extra person to train you. This cycle is continuing in that sense. That is why I believe that for the export industry, on which we rely — Finland lives from exports — the most important thing for us would be to make these professional, good education issues run smoothly in vocational schools and, from there, to create those resources for that job learning, too. It needs those investments, the EUR 190 million. It is absolutely necessary for this to be done in order to ensure that jobs, too, are:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u88	Mr President! The opposition's criticism is rather over-compensated, because you spoke more about these austerity measures that have been taken in the past and not about this government proposal. We have even heard the opinion of the Left Alliance that this government's proposal does not address the issue of the prevention of exclusion, but it is precisely the opposite. In that sense, Mr Grahn-Laasonen has made an excellent reform and an excellent opening, and I would also like to see positive views. Now, one positive view is that learning in the workplace is the best thing you can offer a young person if you are not able to do well in a vocational school and you do not want to go there when you are a schoolphobic. Remember that we have over 11000025-29 year olds with no secondary education. This opens up an excellent way for them to get a place of education and a profession. Secondly, apprenticeships have so far not worked at all, for example, in the case of primary school leavers — there is only a handful of those who have attended them year after year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u89	Mr President! The government, including Mr Niikko, underestimates the criticism of the opposition, but also does not answer any of the questions that have been raised from the point of view of the opposition in connection with this financial system, which is precisely part of this reform of vocational education and training, and with regard to the increase in learning in the workplace, which is also part of this reform and does not relate to the savings that have already been made. The problem with increasing learning in this workplace is not to see what in this legislative whole is now the new element that would directly lead to a sudden increase in the number and attractiveness of periods of work such as the one we currently have at work and to a significant increase in what they are at present. In this respect, I believe that Mr Puumala had a very realistic assessment of this change. I would also like the Minister to respond to this criticism, which has been expressed by many people in connection with the financial system and with the threat scenarios that are seen to be included in this large share of performance funding, particularly as regards the less well-performing pupils and students who need more support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u90	Mr President! When these questions have come, for example, from this eligibility for a postgraduate degree, this is guaranteed in this reform. The problem at the moment is that very few of us continue further training in Finland from vocational education and training. This route, particularly from vocational education to polytechnics, which was once thought of in the reform, has not really, very much, fed the students forward. This is exactly the kind of thing that we hope can be helped with, because that is not a good situation at the moment. What is particularly important here is that the suspension is reduced. Discontinuation is constantly increasing because the current learning model is not motivating especially for boys. The boys are getting out of the way. As we know, this is a serious problem, and the role of vocational education and training in this is very important in terms of motivating the days that will become more complete and reducing the duration of training. A faster transition to working life as more ready-made factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u91	Värderade Talman! Ministern constaterade komper att alla unga komper att få en plats inom andra stadiet i framtiden, att regeringen tryggar det rai, och det var en stor lättnad att höra.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u92	Mr President! I'm curious about this math. After all, I was wondering that this proposal, of course, would not have come to Parliament without the government's decision, as a budget law, to cut it by 190 million in the previous year, and now, of course, the financial system will be put in place on the basis of less money being distributed than before. This is also linked to the fact that vocational training has already been cut significantly in total. Just a few weeks ago, it was suspected that this part of the so-called training agreement, which the government is now presenting in connection with this package, will reduce the cost of vocational education and training by more than EUR 40 million. Now I am surprised that, while the Minister presented here, however, the fact that vocational education and training in educational institutions and in the workplace are at the same cost in terms of funding, it certainly does not talk about savings, but it talks about a significant cost increase. At the same time, we're losing thousands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u93	At this stage in the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Multala, Taavitsainen and Puumala, and then to the Minister. Mr Mikkonen was still able to join this sled — including him — and then to the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u94	Mr President! Yes, there are concerns here that even this financial reform would lead to some kind of student selection. However, we have heard several times here, the Minister has assured us and has shown in other ways that there will be places for everyone to start in the future. On the other hand, 50% of the funding is still allocated according to its main figure, i.e. there are also incentives to include a large number of students. On the other hand, is it not important that we now have proper incentives for educational institutions for the first time that every student is making the best possible progress in his studies? For example, if you consider the development of exclusion, it is certainly not just access to an educational institution that prevents it, but that you actually get a profession and a professional qualification. This reform is now precisely an attempt to improve it, and at least I believe that this financial guidance will have a major impact on the incentives of educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u95	Mr President! I am still a little unclear in this debate — and I would like the Minister to be able to illustrate it — how this reform will now address this problem that is still in force today, that is, this lack of local education, which is, of course, due to the lack of teacher resources, so young people will have very short school days, two or three hours one day. This problem has at least caused it in my own region, i.e. there in South Savo — when there are long distances and you come from there from the various sides of the province to the central city where it can be an hour or half an hour by train — that if the school day is too short, the young people will not be there at all. So even young people expect that school day to really be long enough, and that also gives them a model for working days to be just as long as they are. Is this going to happen with this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u96	Mr. Speaker! So there are a couple of elements in this reform that contribute to this contact teaching. The first thing I've been talking about is this personalization. Those who need more traditional forms of education are more there, some may be more at work. That's another one. The second is, of course, that through this financial system, which was also mentioned here, the organiser of education now has strong incentives to organise that training in a more intensive pipeline, because the organiser of education receives part of the funding on the basis of the fact that a degree is coming out of the school, and not on the basis of the number of knobs on a given day. What takes care of quality is then the 15%, which then ensures that you have to get to work, have to go to further studies and have been evaluated for the lessons received. So both this 15 percent and the 35 percent are both important here. This is where the transitional provisions come in, in other words:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u97	Finally, Mr Mikkonen, and the Members who have asked to speak to this stage, who have not received the floor, I would like to mention Mr Lehdo, who will have the floor after Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u98	Mr President! Indeed, this concern about this sufficient close-up education is great here, and it is hoped that this personalisation, which is a very good thing, will also be taken into account that it will also receive sufficient support for those who need it and also for a long enough period of time, and that it will then be extended even if it reaches the finish line and has that support alongside it. These resources are needed for this, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that this be adhered to. Then I would have asked this question again — I did not hear the Minister’s answer to it — when yesterday the mid-term debate said that the government was prepared to capitalise on EUR 80 million such professional training centres: what are these, and what do they contain? I'd love to hear about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u99	Mr Lehto and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u100	Mr President! Close cooperation between vocational education and training institutions and businesses is very important. Looking at apprenticeships and future education based on a training contract, they are good ways to learn a profession. Nine years on the school bench is enough for a lot of people: You can't concentrate there anymore and you want to do something with your hands, you just can't. Otherwise, you won't go if you don't get a job and practice. Then there are these who are bullied at school. They don't want to go to vocational school anymore when they've been bullied in primary school, bullied in middle school. If you want to go through an apprenticeship and get a profession through it, rather than marginalisation — that is a good thing. We have to have a choice. And then when it comes to learning at work, there is much more there than there is on the school bench, and that is what many professionals say. So the professional gives more to the student than the teacher who doesn't have the work experience from the places of work how to do those things. I myself have seen in that right working life that when a vocational school becomes a person he will then go to a new school at the workplace when those professionals teach how to do those things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u101	Now, Minister, three minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u102	Mr President! Thank you again for the good comments. The reform of vocational education and training is necessary, no matter what the economy is. What is essential here is that this is a structural and also policy-renewal entity, at the heart of which are the new principles for the organisation of vocational education and training, i.e. competence-based, customer-oriented. The process of personalisation, which will be at the heart of this whole education in the future, was very well mentioned in many speeches, i.e. the individual paths built on it, and the providers of vocational education and training should give adequate support to students, that is to say, the support they need. We have a wide range of students in vocational education and training, who leave completely different backgrounds and goals. We will have young people and adults in this integrated system in the future. We have those young people who have bright goals and who, for example, seek to move on to further studies after vocational training, which is very important. Similarly, we have young people who are lost in life - control and who do not yet really know how that life would carry, and we too need to take good care of them and secure knowledge for everyone. Similarly, there are adult students who want to complement their own skills and there are, for example, the long-term unemployed, who hopefully can be helped more flexibly and quickly by training. We also want as much support as possible for the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training, because this is a major change, and that is why the government wisely decided yesterday to invest EUR 15 million in the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training next year and the following year. In addition to this, we have already announced and reported that we also want to ensure that teachers, who play a very important role, have the opportunity to develop their skills and support the implementation of this reform, which is something we will also pay attention to. Similarly, this new opening, i.e. the capitalisation of EUR 80 million to the Centre of Professional Competence, is also an important new entity within which solutions can be made, for example, in relation to new learning environments, i.e. the way in which education is done and new learning environments are carried forward. Of course, we work closely with the field of vocational education and training in that design and implementation — a good, important effort. As regards the prevention of exclusion and the drop-out of education, there were many important elements already mentioned, but securing the education moon, year-round search, personalisation process, increasing workplace learning as a motivational factor, degree reform — these are all important issues. Concerns about the decrease in local education cannot be overlooked, and it particularly draws attention to the fact that the number of local education has started to decline at a time when the funding of vocational education and training increased sharply. It will then be asked exactly how we can ensure and ensure, with this reform, that education is prioritised and those individual, personal paths so that everyone achieves the necessary skills. It has been taken into account not only in the quality elements contained in this reform, but also through the fact that funding for education has a share of effectiveness funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage we should move on to the list of speakers and, after a while, when material is generated, we can return to the issue of debatation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u104	Mr President! Reform's many objectives are very good and worthy of support. All I have been able to do now is to take a look at this final draft law and, therefore, to make this debate known to those institutions, and at the same time they can also give their regards to the work of the committee on what might be worth paying attention to in committee. It may be that some of the things I have raised have already been corrected, but in any case, many of these healthy ones come from those practical fields. The most recent greetings were received the day before yesterday from the North Karelia Joint Municipal Authority, and they said that there would be negotiations on the whole staff. The reason for this is the planned reform of education and organisational change. That's what I was told. This year's savings in this same institution amount to EUR 9 million, i.e. people have already been reduced, but now this reform is putting additional pressure on new savings. The reform's financial system will change the basis for current activities and the predictability of funding will be weakened by the current funding based on the number of calculated students. In the future, the number of students will bring only half of the funding and the other half will bring the qualifications and parts of the degree, as well as employment and further studies. This means that, for example, in North Karelia, where the employment situation is at present the weakest in the whole country, the funding of the educational institution is being weakened for reasons that are independent of it, because the employment situation in the region cannot be affected by an educational institution. The Government Legislative Evaluation Council has also expressed the view that the draft law should provide a more precise assessment of the impact of the measures to be presented on a regional basis. The impact of the reform on populous regions can be very different from those of remote and sparsely populated regions. Moreover, the financial criteria do not take sufficient account of the fact that there are many different learners in vocational schools and young people in need of various kinds of support, whose studies are slower and who need a lot of support from teachers and other professionals. Taking care of their learning is also the task of vocational education and training, and this new funding model can easily lead to rapid graduates and those who are employed being productive students from the educational institution’s point of view. At its worst, this may be that educational institutions want to select only the most successful students in their studies. This could even create the wrong kind of competition between educational institutions. My question is: why has this new funding model failed to take account of the number of students who need special support as one criterion, or is it? Now I haven't been able to check it out. The Government Legislative Evaluation Council has been concerned about this and writes that the draft law does not adequately assess the social impact and in particular the impact of the reform on the achievement of the educational function of the whole age group and on the position of young people at risk of exclusion. Mr President! The transfer of study and learning to workplaces is in itself a good thing, but only after the educational institution has had sufficient capacity to move to workplace studies. Of course, the different sectors are different in this area, but, for example, there has already been a lot of feedback from local nursing students that work communities are no longer happy to take local nursing students, because they have far too weak basic skills for studying at work, where patients and customers need to be met. Furthermore, although it is not directly related to this draft law, I hope that the Ministry will prepare for a return to aptitude tests in certain areas, although I have already sent my greetings to the Minister. So much has come from different quarters to say that, for example, in the social welfare and health sector, people who are completely unsuitable for the sector are studying, and after their studies it is not even possible to think of moving to work in the care and care sector. Sora legislation does not even provide sufficient means to deal with this issue, as specified. On the other hand, it is absurd for individuals and society and a waste of resources to study for a profession in which they do not have the opportunity to work. I am also concerned about how different learners get internships because they need a longer period of time, on the one hand, to go alongside the teacher, but also more guidance at the workplace. Finally, Mr President, I am concerned about the ability of teachers and other staff. I get regular messages from tired or exhausted teachers that even the good things of this reform are getting under their skin. People have been reduced and further reduced, and they are exhausted not only by too much work but also by the conflict between professional identity and reality. They know how work should be done and what kind of support students need, but when there is no choice but to close the ears to the needs of students. It's really bad for professionals. It is also important for the teacher's work that the roles of the teacher and the supervisor are clear. For example, an evaluation is definitely part of the teacher’s competence. I hope this has been clarified at the last stage in this legislative proposal. In the previous version, it was still very vaguely recorded, but this is something I have not been able to check. Let us hope that this is clarified. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u105	Mr President! As a guest of the school itself, I know that, at least not everywhere, like the opposition, we have been left to mourn the fall in funds, but rather to do things in the right way, to teach what is in demand, and to cooperate with companies. I would like to highlight this as a good example the South Karelia Vocational Education Institute in my own country, which, in cooperation with forest industry companies, has been involved in the training of experts in the sector where new factors are now needed in the near future as the old guard retires. Encouraged by this positive message, I would also say to other educational institutions that it is also permissible to anticipate changes that will not then be necessary to hold the major negotiations when they finally come about. Front-loaded when you go, you don't have to be in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u108	Mr President! Comments were raised in relation to students' missing life-management skills and also their ability to work, i.e. basic skills in working life and how this should be corrected in the context of vocational education and training. Ensuring an adequate number of local education is a good way to tackle this, because without sufficient local education hours, it is very likely that those skills in working life, the skills in life management, will not develop in the same way without the school day that permeates the daily lives of young people. As far as this problem is concerned, it is precisely by extending the structure of qualifications that, in my view, we are trying to respond to this. For example, the student receives more extensive metal training, which will then enable him to undergo further training in the employment of a particular employer or at a specific office than if he has still received a specific training within the metal sector in relation to a task other than where he or she is applying for employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u109	We are now going to a very short period of debatation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u110	Mr President! I would like to say, on behalf of my own province, that, in North Karelia, for example, this anticipation has been going on for ten years now. There are constantly saved and closed branches and done everything possible. The North Karelia Vocational Education Institute has certainly been one of the most effective on the basis of evaluation, and everything possible has already been done to minimise costs. That is why it is so bad that the savings and efficiency measures have been taken and then the 9 million saved and now there are such criteria which place North Karelia in an unequal position because we cannot have any effect on what our employment situation is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u111	Mr President! On this regional coverage. It may have been a bit of a discussion earlier when it was said that there was a risk that vocational education and training would be concentrated. As far as Northern and Eastern Finland are concerned, it is already very concentrated. As stated in the previous speech, the branches have already been closed. For example, Kainuu is no longer a branch office other than Kajaani, which currently has the only vocational training. Which means there's no such thing as a threat anymore. On the contrary, this reform, when more learning is transferred to the workplace, will be able to respond precisely to the fact that companies can now regain their skills. The current problem is precisely that young people are not sufficiently skilled. Companies do not want to hire young people because they do not have that specific training. They have too much training there at the moment, so in practice we have to retrain them. Not all employers have the time or resources to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u112	And the reply, Mr Gustafsson, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u113	Mr President! I thought Mr. Jani Mäkelä's world view was very black and white. In fact, I just want to touch this entrepreneurialism, entrepreneurial training. I would say that for the last ten years we have in practice tried to increase entrepreneurship education at all levels and also increased entrepreneurship education. I could give you a number of examples of universities of applied sciences that start a commercial and business degree so that a company is created, the right company. There are more examples of this, and there are examples from both vocational education and upper secondary school. I myself have somewhat alienated the fact that comprehensive school would be brought into the actual meaning of the word, but to a certain extent I understand that, where appropriate, the kiosk — books and books and things — is also suitable for primary school, but especially for vocational, upper secondary school, university of applied sciences and universities, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u114	All right, that's a pretty good minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u115	Mr President! When choosing a secondary education place, a young person who decides on a comprehensive school makes no more or less than the decision that affects the rest of his life. In the best case scenario, the young person prepares for his dream career and gets started with a good, long career. Not everyone is this lucky. Too many young people do not get access to the vocational training they want because there are not enough places to start, or because the institution is too far away from the place where the young person lives, or because of financial distress, for example. In order to support young people's access to vocational education and training and not to create additional barriers to it, proper decisions must be taken to increase education and equality, and certainly not to undermine the quality of vocational education and training by reducing local education and by undermining access to education. Right now, young people, their parents and teachers are rightly concerned about the consequences and effects of the government’s proposal. For example, are these questions: Is this a start-up shot outside the growth centres of the vocational school network, and is the result of inequality in access to and access to education and training, depending on where the young person or his or her family lives? Does the reform take away the choice of young people who already have less access to education in their neighbourhood or those who have difficulties in accessing vocational training? This is a real concern, for there is nothing to crush the young person’s self-esteem and courage to apply for a place of study than to be excluded from education at the same time as other young people continue in their new places of study and get ahead in life. Mr President! In the past, vocational education and training has had the advantage of preventing social exclusion, as it has also been possible to reach a place of vocational study with the lowest grades. I wonder what will happen in the future when 35% of the total funding of training providers is paid out in the reform? Does this lead to selection, i.e. will the organisers, under financial pressure, begin to select as students those who are able to achieve as many outcomes as possible as quickly as possible, in practice, students who are able to cope quickly and efficiently with their studies? This would be bitter lime for many young people and would also reduce the level of education for our entire age group. Mr President! Minister, yesterday you said that the aim of the government reform is to meet the skills needs of working life and to ensure the availability of workers in companies. As a result of the reform, it is also a little difficult to see these objectives being achieved when you read it. Instead, reform, for example, if lessons are reduced, increases the risk of dropping out of studies. In other words, it would reduce precisely the skills that would significantly make it difficult for a young person to get a job and get a career. If this is the case, the reform will not safeguard the regional labour market needs of businesses, will not improve the vitality and competitiveness of the regions, nor will it increase their equality, which would be essential, as 80% of the jobs are professional and as much as 90% of the innovations are carried out at the practical level there. In addition, the majority of entrepreneurship is created on the basis of professional careers. The importance of vocational training for the vitality and development of the regions is very great. The success of my own country, Etelä-Savo, for example, depends largely on vocational education. Mr President! It is essential that young people have good and equal access to vocational training throughout the country. There is therefore a need to reduce regional disparities and certainly not to increase them. Education is an undeniable welfare factor because it protects against unemployment, poverty, exclusion, and education also reduces health inequalities. Every young person must be guaranteed equal access to secondary education. I very much hope that with this proposal the government will not scrape off vocational training, create regional skills gaps and deepen exclusion. And I hope that, while working, the committee will look very deeply into this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u116	Mr President! This reform of vocational education and training is a very important reform. I am sure we will all agree on that in this Chamber today. As Mr Niikko has already pointed out, one of the social objectives which is closely linked to this reform is the prevention of the exclusion of young people, which is particularly important in these difficult times of economic and difficult unemployment. Personalisation in studies is an important step towards better learning outcomes and working life. Some young people learn better by doing than by reading, and in vocational studies, of course, this becomes even more important. In terms of both motivation for studies and the sustainability of public finances, it also makes sense to increase the effectiveness of studies through closer periods of study and by reducing the length of study time measured during the calendar period, and this point should be taken into account in the committee's deliberations. Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training is largely a result of and responds to changing and changing the needs of working life and the skills it requires. The completion of vocational qualifications is now moving to the evidence-based way of completing all qualifications. Competences are mainly demonstrated in practical work situations. If and when the displays are held in the workplace, young people will gain experience in working life, while there will be flexibility in the implementation of the displays. In the future, the wide scope of qualifications will grow and will provide young graduates with better skills for working life. By reforming the funding of educational institutions, they are encouraged to support their students in completing and completing their studies. Individual study paths provide students with previous skills and experience with the opportunity to proceed quickly and efficiently to the degree. Important forms of work-based learning are traditional apprenticeships and a new form of training contract. Apprenticeship training will be increased by raising the level of funding involved. This is a very good solution for taking into account the practical needs of the labour and business world. Mr President! A new form of training agreement, in line with the personal competence development plan, replaces and expands the current form of work learning. In this model, the employer does not pay compensation to the student and it is also not paid to the employer. In the training contract model, as the student's capacity increases, he/she can move flexibly from education based on the education contract to apprenticeship training. The financing system for vocational education and training will also be clarified. The focus of the financial system is shifted to performance rather than time spent studying. Within the limits of their authorisation to organise the training, the organisers can decide more freely on the allocation of their training offers. The number of degrees falls from 350 to about half, which significantly clarifies vocational education and training. In this respect too, efforts will be made and opportunities will be made to meet the needs of working life. Mr President! Studies show that workplace training is a very effective way of lowering the employment threshold. The reform of vocational education and training is necessary to prevent and involve young people in the labour market. The proposal for a reform of vocational education and training as a whole therefore contains a great deal of important improvements to the existing laws governing vocational education and training and is therefore very much to be welcomed. Finally, I would like to thank the government for drawing attention to the status of students in its mid-term debate at the beginning of the week, including in the form of a EUR 75 study allowance. For many low-income family students, it is a very significant addition to the monthly budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u117	Mr President! The rules on vocational training are brought together in a single law. For all qualifications, the completion of the examinations will be carried out on a evidence-based basis. Competences are mainly demonstrated by showing them in working life in practical situations. Other display environments are also possible for justified reasons. An integrated process will be introduced in vocational education and training to identify and recognise the skills acquired previously by the student and to plan the acquisition of missing skills, the demonstration and evaluation of skills and the necessary support measures. Individual study paths allow students, for example, to move faster towards a degree with previous skills. The challenge for individual study paths may be to put it into practice when training providers need to build a genuinely individual study path with reduced resources for a larger number of students. Apprenticeship training and training agreement: Apprenticeship training remains key to the present. As a new form of workplace training, training based on a training agreement will be introduced to replace current forms of work-based learning. In the model, it is possible for students to move flexibly from education and training based on a contract of education to apprenticeships as their skills and capabilities increase. If we want to achieve quality vocational education, the challenges of basic education must be addressed. Vocational education and training cannot adequately fill basic skills if there are gaps. Education is always a continuation and is built on the past. I have received feedback that weak know-how in science can be seen in the workplace, for example, in the process industry. If you don't understand the whole, you don't get a new one either. Above all, industrial education needs to be made more attractive in order to make the best use of its resources. Cooperation between working life and education should be stepped up. Industry is Finland's real provider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u118	Mr President! I was delighted with a detail in Mr Huhtasaari's speech when he said that the challenges of comprehensive school should be dealt with. Here earlier, representatives of the Finns Party, Savio and Niikko, looked very closely at it from the context of this vocational education and training. But that is exactly how it is, as Huhtasaari said, that if these previous learning outcomes, on the basis of which basic education is decided and vocational education and training is started, i.e. skills in writing, literacy, computational skills, digital skills are weak, then it is difficult to succeed and to succeed in vocational education. The same goes for high school. That's why, in a way, this joint effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u119	Mr President! An announcement came in from the Alliance this afternoon: The government remembered young people in the middle of a row. 45 million for the prevention of social exclusion of young people, an increase in the number of young family guardians to study aid, a reduction in day care fees, a review of the rules on zero employment contracts. They're really good things. Finnish education must be constantly renewed to meet the needs of a truly fast-changing working life. It is a good thing that the government has taken steps to reform vocational education and training thoroughly. The issue is quite challenging, and it is difficult to find the right path for every case. The main thing, however, is to move the big line towards the desired state of the future. A large amount of research has been carried out to enable vocational education and training to provide young people and parents with good prospects for the future of working life. Improving the quality of education, better compatibility between working life and education, reducing duplication, saving time for administration and money, and removing unnecessary barriers to training, are good objectives which might even be supported by the opposition. The achievement of these objectives requires measures, one of which is the updating of training programmes. The disappearance of numerous degrees has already spoken much at this stage. It goes without saying that such a great reform is a great deal to talk about, and that is the way it should be. There has been no extensive updating of the supply of qualifications for the time being, and it is therefore understandable that this change will be substantial when assessing the effectiveness of the qualifications according to the needs and through modern working life. Many jobs traditionally completed in vocational schools have disappeared or changed their shape. At the same time, new professions have been created, and there is a demand for them. It is a good thing that the government puts the supply of qualifications in line with the demand for working life. I consider evidence-based vocational training to be a very fresh reform. What a person knows determines competence rather than the extent to which knowledge has been achieved. Much of the professions can be learned best through practical work. Employment may sometimes fail to have a possible degree, even if the individual’s practical skills are sufficient and his motivation is in order. In such cases, it seems a waste of time to put a master on the school bench for a long time to learn again what he knows. Mr President! Learning to learn skills in education and verification of competence in practical work is a great opportunity for students to convince their potential future employer of their skills. More personalised education helps students to get their degree to the finish line and improve the comfort of school. Having a good time at school or at work is a great influence on motivation. The strengthening of apprenticeship training and the training agreement are also aimed at linking students and recruiting companies. Strengthening cooperation between businesses and schools is a key practical challenge and will contribute to the success of the reform. It is now important to provide adequate resources and guidance to educational institutions throughout the country so that students can really get to traineeships and thus to work when they graduate instead of a card set. As a result of the spending limits debate, efforts will be made to prevent the exclusion of young people and this will also be invested in through education. I believe that more work-oriented education is a good remedy for the problem of exclusion. Here's a few more words: The New Town Car Factory is where I was born and live. Since I was 14 years old, since the car factory was founded in 1969, I have been following the stages of the car factory for almost 50 years. It's been a lot of trouble sometimes, the note's almost been on the hatch, but the car factory's been holding on, and today the sun's shining really sharp, it's great. And of course it's because there's work and the after-work quality and the marketmen know what they're doing. The employment truck runs, which has recruited young people to work in the car factory, and they will then be able to learn the job there. It means that a lot of young people get to work, which is a great thing. Finally, I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that the experiment on the free choice of languages will finally take place in the autumn of 2018, which means that it has now got its wings under its skin, and it will happen, for that very much. 2200 is the maximum number of people who come under the scope of the experiment. Municipalities are applying for this, and it concerns upper secondary schools and vocational schools. I have heard that there is a great deal of enthusiasm for participating in this language experiment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u120	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This has been a bit of an abnormal situation for this debate, since the members of the Committee on Culture have been more than usual involved in the debate. That, on my part and perhaps on others' side, is due to the fact that this is such an important, in part, historic proposal for the development of vocational education and training, that it is perhaps acceptable and natural that we then want to take part in the discussion, but also to use the speeches on education and training policy on an important issue. The issue that has been raised here relates to this financial system, and others have also pointed out that in this new financial system this performance funding represents 35% and 15% and then the basic funding is 50%. It has been feared here that this contribution to performance funding will lead to such an economic optimisation, because it has been built in to train young people who are graduating quickly and with whom there will be no problems. I got my hands on a related column by Antti Seitama, a training policy expert at Sakki ry, in which he is rather analytical and, in my opinion, keenly reflecting on this issue. He notes that this effectiveness funding includes separation factors which are intended, for example, to: encourage training providers to train those without a secondary qualification, but in order for them to see the real impact of these graduation factors on the activities of training providers is questionable because their relative share is very small compared to performance funding. Well, I do not want to be champions on this issue, but this is a very serious and important issue, and that is why, in this committee's expert consultation, this must not be a detail, but an important issue, then, because if such a state of fear occurs, then it will lead to the exclusion of young people and the exclusion of them from education. Mr President! In future working life, this ability for continuous new learning, including this ability to adapt, will be emphasised and, in order to be able to respond well to changes in working life, he or she must possess the key competences of working life. I would now like to say from this very valuable stage that such good key competences are literacy, the ability to express language, the ability to perceive different numbers, relationships and good digital skills. In addition, the key competences include interaction skills, initiative and continuous learning skills, and I cannot help highlighting this last, continuing learning skills. I am bringing this up now because there is some danger here at a time when we are going to go to such final exams, which measure and evaluate certain professional skills, which measure and evaluate the joy of learning and the joy of development, the skills of continuous learning that vocational training should give birth to and feed on. Here again — and this is now related to this general education, and above all to professional education — I myself stress this aspect, because it has not come up in the debate. In other words, vocational training must provide opportunities for lifelong learning, professional education, working life skills and also social inclusion. Perhaps, in summary, I should like to reiterate and stress that I myself would like to see this vocational education and training developed consciously above quality, and that is why, in this debate, too much emphasis has not been placed on this adequate contact teaching and guidance, whether it is at school or at work or at a distance. However, I would also like to emphasise this group's learning and communality, because they are also very important and important skills in the future working life there. Here is a bit like the background of the fact that when you make these personal curricula, you can highlight this kind of ultra-civilist perspective, with which I understand in this context the meaning of good, but learning is the best and best when you learn one from another and together. — Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u121	President! All I had to do was comment on this. It was precisely on Twitter that I had a discussion with the Sakki ry on this very subject raised by Mr Gustafsson. However, I believe that the 50% basic contribution, which comes precisely on the basis of the number of students, is sufficient to ensure that the educational institutions continue to have incentives to take all kinds of students in when there are places to start, so that they are sufficient for all young people. Of course, this is something that we should certainly ensure at the time when we hear experts in the Committee on Education and Rural Development and ask for figures on the amounts that have been achieved here so far and whether there is such a risk that educational institutions, for example, will optimize their admission to education in a direction other than those from the basic school. Of course, we do not want young students who finish their comprehensive school to be left without a place to study. But on the other hand, we want to ensure that everyone who chooses and gets vocational education and training will also progress in their studies and, in due course, be qualified for the profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u122	Mr Gustafsson, and somehow I find that perhaps the Minister will say another word.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u123	Yes, briefly and for my part, I am sure that the last speech will be made. This financial system is, after all, one of the core issues of this reform of vocational education and training. Surely this is something we are now discussing, that the system does not encourage this kind of over-optimization, we will also pursue in this expert consultation committee and we will probably be wiser after that. On the other hand, this financial system is so important that, when I believe that the committee will also set certain monitoring targets, which will then be evaluated, possibly in three years' time, even though it will then be evaluated in committee, there is no doubt that this financial system can be one. Although I know that it will happen and will enter into force gradually, we can then, of course, consider where it should be assessed. But this is how I'd see it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u124	Before the Minister, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u125	Mr President! I would just like, for my part, to thank you again for this debate, which has been good and varied, and perhaps to say something of a wish for that committee reading, which, however, has quite a good time, 23 meetings, starting on Friday. If we go even on a normal schedule so that everything is ready for Midsummer, then there is time for 23 meetings to settle down and go very deeply into many of the issues raised in this debate. But perhaps I will say something else about this in committee — we will soon see if it is utopia and mere wish. If only there was any chance that this kind of historical reform would be done together so that the report would cross government and opposition borders, then I would see it as a very big added value and a great message to that field. In my opinion, no party has painted in that way into a corner of itself at least yet that would have ruled out such an opportunity. This is the kind of wish I'd like to maintain. — Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u126	Minister, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u127	Mr President! Very briefly. I would also like to thank you for this debate, which I am sure has given some substance to the committee. Close discussion ahead, but numerous opportunities to consult the field of vocational education and training still at this stage. I believe that the preconditions for success for this reform were significantly increased by the fact that it was prepared in a rather exceptional way, i.e. with a great deal of involvement and also in favour of open preparation. In other words, I would also like to express my thanks to the competent officials of our Ministry of Education and Culture and all the stakeholders involved in the preparation of the reform at its various stages up to now. Vocational education and skills deserve appreciation from us decision-makers. Finland cannot manage without professional competence, and that is also why it is very important to send out a common message that vocational education and training reform is important and that we also want to support its implementation at many levels. In this sense, yesterday's decisions on the mid-term debate also provide opportunities for maintaining and strengthening the attractiveness of vocational education and training. I was also pleased that other parts of our education system were raised in the speeches. It is all the more important for us to go through the education system as a whole and to take care of those pathways from early childhood education to lifelong learning. Also, yesterday's decisions on the government's mid-term review were positive and positive for the development of the education system. The second-degree package was raised here in Mr Gustafsson's speech. I would also like to inform Parliament that yesterday the government has decided jointly that we will also launch reform of high school. The aim is to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school education as general education, as a form of postgraduate education to higher education institutions, to strengthen the quality of upper secondary education and the learning outcomes, and to facilitate the transition from secondary education to higher education. I am sure that we will also be able to work together on this reform. Thank you, and all the best for this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u128	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. I would like to make a presentation on this and on points 6 and 7. is used by the Chairman of the Auditors, Mr Korhonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u129	Mr President! First of all, there is a word about auditors, which means that we have three auditors elected by Parliament and that a fourth auditor has been elected on the basis of the invitation to tender. At the beginning of last year, BDO Oy was elected as the fourth auditor, whose responsible auditor is JHT Jarmo Salmon. As auditors, we have audited the accounts, the accounts, the operating report and the administration for the financial year 1.1. to 31.12.2016 of the Finnish Parliament, the National Audit Office and the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, in accordance with separate audit plans and as provided for in Article 19(1) of the Parliamentary Financial Rules. Why also the National Audit Office and the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs? They are independent agencies under the authority of Parliament and are therefore also subject to Parliament's audit. We have carried out audits in accordance with good auditing practice, as the report shows. After all, good auditing requires that we plan and carry out an audit in order to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether there is material error in the financial statements or in the annual report. The auditor also assesses internal control in order to be able to plan appropriate audit measures in relation to circumstances, but not for the purpose of issuing an opinion, for example in this context, on the effectiveness of the internal control of Parliament, UPI or the Audit Office, but in this context it is our view that internal control in these communities is extremely well and comprehensive. Mr President! In their opinion, the auditors state that the annual accounts and the annual report provide, firstly, correct and adequate information on the results and financial position of the Parliament, in accordance with the provisions on Parliament's financial statements and on the preparation of the annual report. In substance, the same presentation by the auditors is also the case with the National Audit Office and the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, which means that we are giving these three bodies a kind of clean audit report. A few special remarks. First of all, this much talked about Parliament's renovation project. After all, the audit perspective is accuracy control. This project has expanded from the original plan because, as the project progresses, it has been found that the initial corrections were insufficient. However, project management has been reasonably good in terms of costs, timetables and quality. What has been essential in all this has been that the level of costs has been known whenever new implementation decisions have been taken and that level of costs has also been maintained. Parliament's operating budget has remained well within the budget. Overshooting of IT operating expenditure is only 1%, while savings have been made elsewhere. The functioning and development of IT have been monitored by auditors, and we have been monitoring, if you could say so, with some concern. We have drawn attention to the integrity and functionality of the systems. A couple of chapters. Parliamentary expenditure last year amounted to EUR 129.5 million, including renovation expenditure. Of this, the operating expenditure of the Parliamentary Office was EUR 47.1 million, which was slightly below the budget of EUR 2 million. It can be said that the budget accuracy of the office has improved and is now being well realised. You could bring up one of the codes. Last year, Parliament's expenditure per Finn amounted to EUR 23 53 cents, including renovation expenditure. As auditors, we have also tried to promote the dismantling of red tape. As auditors, we have drawn attention, among other things, to the persistence and introduction of simple procedures in the management of questions and initiatives by parliamentarians, i.e. away from paper-based initiatives towards electronic means, and this has now been achieved. The primary objective and clearly the development area of the Parliament is also to modernise services and improve the efficiency of operations. That work is continuous and very goal-oriented in this house. We have closely followed, among other things, the transition to the Kieku system and the problems associated with it. These have also moved in a positive direction. After all, during the year the Parliament moved to the joint Kieku system of central government, which replaced most of the economic and information systems previously in use. Finally, I would like to point out that the state accounting systems are being reformed, and that these three agencies have also become users of the services of the Service Centre for the Finance and Human Resources of the State. It may be said that cooperation with Palkeet and Parliament, UPI and the National Audit Office has progressed satisfactorily, but as auditors we have made some recommendations to clarify the division of duties and responsibilities between the agencies and the Palkeet. Mr President! On behalf of the auditors, I would like to thank Parliament's administration for its excellent cooperation. To this end, it must also be said that Parliament, whether or not I use a saying, is no longer the same. Financial manager Pertti Rosila is retiring, he has already moved on to taking unsolicited holidays. Here, as the chairman of the auditors, I would also like to thank him for his extensive and fine work in Parliament and, quite separately, for his excellent and seamless cooperation with the audit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u130	Mr President! President Timo Korhonen, who, by his very nature and expertise, inspires confidence in both us representatives and, I believe, in the wider parliamentary sphere, it was interesting to hear this report on Parliament's accounts, activity reports and administration. On one detail — I don’t know if I’m staying and whether it’s smart to say: I am also a member of this Parliament's building committee, which supervises, directs and shepherds this Parliament's renovation, and I have also been given the impression that things have gone rather as well as they could under these circumstances. There have been many problems that were not predictable. Some of the old drawings are no longer there, and a lot of dangerous, toxic substances have been discovered since then, which have resulted in additional costs. But the sum summarum: it looks good, and the most important thing is that now, in early autumn, we can get to the right places to work. I would also like to agree with you, and I am sure that, more broadly, Members of Parliament will agree with the thanks for the office manager, Pertti Rosila, whom we will be happy to remember. Well, I guess the next chance is these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u131	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. I note that Mr Korhonen presented this issue on the 5th issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u132	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. President Korhonen presented this issue on the 5th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u133	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u134	Mr President! In this bill, the amendment of Article 185 of the Aliens Act and Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code proposes to increase the fine from two years’ imprisonment to two years’ imprisonment resulting from the violation of an entry ban under the Aliens Act and to transfer it to the Criminal Code. Since the changes to Schengen mobility in 2007, cross-border crime has become a permanent phenomenon. For Helsinki, about a quarter of all crimes are committed by foreigners, so the magnitude of the phenomenon is significant. Cross-border crime is strengthened and combated significantly by the limitation of the penalty scale for the entry ban to fines. A foreign almost professional offender does not pay fines and is currently not converted into imprisonment, so in practice the crime will not be punished. For the same reason, the prohibition of entry does not have the intended preventive effect. The necessary criminalising act for an entry ban does not achieve its objectives. The preventive approach must be at the heart of the assessment of the criminality of the entry ban. The violation of the entry ban is therefore on the increase. In 2015, the entry ban was violated 566 times in the whole of Finland. Depending on the type of crime, a mobile criminal easily commits between 10 and 30 crimes on an annual basis, so there would be at least 5,000 to 15,000 preventable offences. The figure is likely to be higher because only part of those who break the ban will be caught. A report by the Central Criminal Police gives an idea of the number of persons who are in violation of the entry ban. In a study carried out in October 2013, 103 persons were found on the lists during the month in which they were refused entry. On an annual basis, this would mean the arrival of some 1200 persons who are banned from entering Finland. The real number is likely to be even higher, as some mobile criminals do not use their own name or travel without a ticket. Statistics show that the number of entry bans is constantly increasing and control is also effective, as the number of recorded infringements is increasing. In order to maintain general law-abiding, it would be important to change the penal provisions to the Nordic level. The most important criterion is the real possibility of preventing thousands of crimes. The threat of imprisonment resulting from the violation of the entry ban would be likely to direct the activities of a moving criminal to another country where there is no such risk. Unfortunately, as the current situation continues, there is a risk that crime in other countries will be directed to Finland on the same basis. The police have to convert some cases several times, even within a short period of time. According to the Helsinki Foreign Affairs Police, the entry ban is violated on average every week. This employs the police in an already changed environment where police resources are limited. The fines resulting from the violation of the ban do not serve as a deterrent, since the fines imposed by the police cannot be converted into imprisonment and are difficult to collect from non-residents. Particularly worrying is the fact that the ban is most often violated by persons who have been banned from entering because of the crimes they committed. A change in the penalty rate from an entry ban to a prison sentence would increase efficiency while, in line with Nordic examples, a person could be ordered to pay the penalty in his own country. The Finnish penalty scale should be consistent with the other Nordic countries in the event of an infringement of the entry ban. They may be sentenced to 1 to 3 years in prison for breach of the entry ban. Mr President! Example: Yesterday MTV published the news under the heading "The ban on land entry did not prevent Estonian burglars — the stick inserted in the door told us if the apartment had been visited". The Espoo District Court sentenced two Estonian men to less than four years’ imprisonment in Espoo and Pirkanmaa, and they were now sentenced to 11 counts of aggravated theft and two counts of theft. One of these convictions had already been convicted of burglary and banned. Another now convicted has also been convicted in the past. His background is found in the aggravated robbery of Malmi Korupaja. — This was just one example of this phenomenon, which is linked to this cross-border crime, and particularly home burglaries are quite often among the most common crimes in these cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u135	Mr President! This is a necessary and supported bill. After all, it proposes an increase in the penalty rate resulting from the violation of an entry ban under the Aliens Act from a fine to two years' imprisonment and the transfer of the offence to a criminal law. Mr Ruoho well stated that the fine is of no practical significance in these cases, especially when the conversion penalty is not currently in place. I would also add that, as the penalty rate increases, the means of solving the crime will also be improved. The grounds for the proposal well state that the threat of imprisonment resulting from the violation of the entry ban would also guide the activities of a moving criminal out of Finland. This too is certainly true, because crime is committed where it is best served, and if imprisonment is a judgment, then it is not as good a case as it is where that imprisonment is not obtained. After all, the situation is that the ban on entry is generally flouted. The same people may be caught dozens of times for illegal entry, and they just come back illegally. The freedom of movement is being brutally exploited. You can even say where the EU is, where the free movement of criminals is. This cannot continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u136	Mr President! As the previous speakers have already said, Mr Ruoho's bill concerns the amendment of Article 185 of the Aliens Act and Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code in order to increase the penalty rate resulting from the violation of the entry ban from a fine to two years' imprisonment. It would most likely, if implemented, significantly reduce the re-entry of persons who have been refused entry into Finland. As stated in this bill, in the Helsinki region, for example, these entry bans are violated on average every week. In 2015, at least 566 violations of the entry ban took place throughout the country, which, of course, already burden the police with limited resources as the number of offences increased very much. After all, a large number of these people who have been banned from entering the country have been involved in criminal activity. The Government's immigration policy guidelines have also stated and recorded that Finland's practices are changed in many respects to at least the level of the control countries. Mr President! On these grounds and on the other grounds mentioned in this bill, Mrs Ruoho's bill is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u137	Mr President! I am still referring to these other Nordic penalties: the maximum penalty is 1 year in Sweden, 2 years in Norway, 3 years in Denmark. Indeed, in this comparison, Finland is the only country where the penalty is only a fine. The violation of the entry ban does not need to be particularly severely punished, in principle, the actual imprisonment of two to four months already constitutes a significant threat and a delay in achieving the proceeds of crime, directing criminal activity away from Finland. In order for the actual prison sentences to be carried out, the maximum penalty should in practice be 2 years in prison. 2 years would also be in line with and in line with the average of the Nordic penal practice. Mr President! The limitation of the existing penalty scale to fines limits the means of investigation available to the pre-trial investigation authorities. On a broader penalty scale, several coercive measures would be available in the pre-trial investigation. For example, coercive measures would better enable the detection of illegal immigration. In the current framework of mobile crime and much increased immigration, there is good reason to step up criminal investigations. In the absence of regular border controls, the monitoring of compliance with the foreign law and the related criminal investigation must be effective. Mr President! A new stricter regulation would increase the number of prisoners somewhat, but probably only by a few dozen. The main importance of legislation is its prevention objective, as cross-border crime is a deliberate and systematic action. Moving criminals tend to go to places where there is no risk of going to prison solely because of entry and at the same time no financial gain is lost. In this respect, Finland is an attractive target country for committing crimes at the very low level
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u138	Mr President! The fines resulting from the violation of the entry ban do not work. The penalties for offenders who continue to commit crimes must be tightened up. Representative Ruoho is also a police officer, and I am sure he has made this bill on the basis of his police experience. The initiative must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u139	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u140	Mr President! In my bill for the amendment of Article 92 of the Income Tax Act, it is proposed to make informal care aid a tax-free benefit by making a new paragraph 28. The idea for this initiative came from a conversation I had with a family carer. The support for informal care is very small and varies from one municipality to another. The minimum amount of care allowance for informal care allowance in 2016 was EUR 387 49 cents per month. It is possible to apply for informal care allowance of at least EUR 774 98 cents per month for a medically heavy transition. The lowest allowance for informal care covers hardly the most necessary expenditure. At the top, the allowance is usually only when the nursing work requires full-time work from the nurse and the care work cannot be left alone and is extremely burdensome. Support for informal care at the highest level is not a significant compensation for heavy labour. Family carers are doing vital work for our society. A family carer is a person who takes care of a family member or other family member who, due to illness, disability or other special need for help, cannot cope with his/her daily life on his/her own. It is estimated that there are currently around 350,000 informal care situations in Finland, but only a few family carers receive legal compensation for their work. In 2015, there were only about 43,000 informal care contracts in Finland. Mr President! Family carers support the social safety nets of our society with their work, because in the case of informal care, resources are released from other social welfare and health care services. Family care is also the most pleasant form of treatment for many people to be cared for, since who of us would not want to live alongside his loved ones when he is particularly vulnerable, such as memory sickness or disability. Well, it's a sign of our humanity, isn't it? For these reasons, family carers find the tax on small compensation very unfair. Of course, the best way to address the situation of family carers would be to significantly increase the support for informal care, but tax exemption would be a concrete way of improving the position of all carers immediately with one solution. In terms of income-sharing, the tax exemption from informal care support would benefit the most in quantitative terms from the low incomes of all, as the family carers are mainly low incomes. There is no accurate statistics on the income distribution of family carers, but Kela's publication "Dear but heavy work - The first results of Kela's informal care project" says that the family carer's gross median income is EUR 21257 per year. Thus, from low median incomes, it can easily be concluded that the tax benefits would not be quantified for high incomes, as there are very few high incomes among carers. The national development programme for informal care at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which was completed in 2014, also includes a cost estimate for tax exemption: "If the allowance for care for informal care were to be converted into tax-free income, but would continue to be paid for the insured person's earnings-related pension and sickness insurance daily allowance, the tax revenue would be reduced by approximately EUR 51 million at the levels and amounts of care fees foreseen in 2013. In making this estimate, the tax bases for 2013 have been used and it is also assumed that the earnings-related pension contribution and sickness insurance per diem would continue to be deductible in taxation. The change in tax income includes, in addition to central and municipal taxes, the change in health insurance contributions, church tax and Yle-Tax. For the most part, the reduction in tax revenues would result from a reduction in municipal tax revenue of around EUR 38 million, or 74% of the total reduction in tax revenues." The bill is therefore a clear, simple measure, which includes cost estimates and which responds directly to the needs of family carers themselves. So the bill is a great tool for the government to improve the position of family carers. Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's government programme promised to improve the status of family carers and to clarify the tax exemption. However, this did not lead to measures. Similarly, Prime Minister Sipilä’s Government’s programme for informal care promises to target resources. So now is a good time for the government to introduce its own programme and to improve the position of family carers in concrete terms. I am therefore counting on the initiative to move forward within the government parties, because during the previous parliamentary term in 2012, the centre of the current Prime Minister's party in the opposition, under the leadership of the current Minister, Kimmo Tiilikainen, has taken the same initiative with the same content. The Tiilikainen initiative has been signed by all current government ministers, including Prime Minister Sipilä. I hope that the Sipilä Government will take this matter on board and, in a positive way, will move the tax reform forward. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-26-ps-43.u141	Mr President! I think that in practice all Members of Parliament have had to answer or have to answer the question of family carers in the squares and squares, why you are still taxing on these modest compensations, and that is always a mental and somewhat morally problematic situation. And then the representatives will each answer and play in their style, and in general the answer is so sympathetic that it certainly does not seem reasonable in view of the responsibility of the work that comes with the care of the family, also in the spiritual sense. In this respect, Mr Semi's well-done and well-presented bill is worthy of support, and I would now like to speak in support of it when I am here. I am not going to go into the various details here: whether there may be an intermediate form or something like that, but if we now think that these costs are a few tens of millions of euros, then it is not about central government finances that are relevant, but its spiritual, psychological and moral importance for family carers would undoubtedly be significant. Thank you, Congressman Semi, for the activity.
