ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u2	Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u3	Mr President! In the construction of a Finnish welfare state, the key objective has been to make Finland a nation in which the human background does not affect the chances of success, a nation in which the weaker one is helped and supported to remain involved. The life cycle of the great statesman who fell asleep last Friday, President Mauno Koivisto, from the child of the underprivileged family to the doctoral dissertation of philosophy and the top of the empire is a good example of the strengths of the Finnish welfare state. The political wisdom of the Koivisto with regard to a prudent policy of funding, a determined strengthening of parliamentaryism, an attitude towards neighbours and a stable foreign policy with membership of the EU are lessons that we all need to reflect on here. Prime Minister, how do you judge the President? The political footprint of Koivisto in Finnish society?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u4	Mr President! First of all, I believe that the idea of our own and all of us in the absence of the President is a deep respect for his work. He piloted Finland for 12 years as President and 5 years as Prime Minister through the recession and finally on the threshold of membership of the European Union. His personal story is also very Finnish and very eloquent: he studies from a carpenter's son to a doctoral degree and eventually ends up as president of the Republic. Of course, we want to hold on to this dream and its dream of survival and the possibility of survival for every Finn. But it is clear that the Government is now, here and now, preparing to give the President of the Republic, Mauno Koivisto, a valuable farewell.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u6	Mr President! The key building tree of President Koivisto’s life story, alongside his personal qualities, was an opportunity to acquire training. The opportunity for education, which is independent of people's background, is the most important single factor in the success of Finns and Finland. Education is a word whose content is influenced by a number of decisions we have taken here. I have wondered whether we have now gone in the right direction in recent years in improving Finnish educational opportunities. Perhaps it would be good for us to stop here for a moment and think about how we are going to make it possible for the porter to be born today to head towards the doctoral hat. Prime Minister, how do you feel about equality in education and its promotion as part of the 100-year history and future of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u7	Mr President! It is a dream that every Finn, regardless of his or her wealth and background, can train as far as motivation and head is sufficient. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is prepared to keep working for it, even though we and the previous government and many of us have had to make painful decisions that have also affected education. What we have done now by this government is that a year ago, in the spending limits debate, we decided not to take any further decisions on training. On the contrary, in the previous spending limits debate, we did a reorientation within the limited margin of manoeuvre we have. From this promise that it is possible to train as far as the head and motivation are sufficient in Finland, we stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u8	Mr President! It is valuable that we take time here in Parliament to respect President Koivisto's extensive life work, which is based on the solid support of the citizens. He built a sense of security for people during the transformation of society. In addition to his work in strengthening parliamentaryism, the process of life, he was also an important factor, supporter and supporter of the contractual society. In those years, I too had the opportunity to discuss and fund these matters with him. It would therefore be important that this productive legacy of the contractual society, which he supported, is not scrapped and wasted, but is seen as an important thing for the survival of the nation's future in the future. Does this view also reflect the government’s view?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u9	Mr President! President Koivisto was in many ways a unique person. For example, he combined economic and foreign policy competence in a unique way. He was also a strong supporter of the contractual society, and what you told me is also very much in line with my view on this aspect of his life's work. He gave us a model of what Finnishness can be at its best.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u10	Mr President! Last Saturday I took a bus to an event outside the centre of Turku, and I had a memorable moment when people from Turku who were not known to each other in a bus together remembered the guy from the port of Turku, President Mauno Koivisto. This is exactly how many Finns remember Koivisto, not only his valuable political heritage but also as the man of the port of Turku, the son of a carpenter and a seamstress who argued as a doctor and later became president of the Republic of Finland. But, Prime Minister Sipilä, such a social rise is no longer a matter of course in Finland today. Higher education is hereditary and we have read about how Finnish comprehensive school is also becoming unequal. Prime Minister, what will the government do to reverse this process of inequality and ensure that every young Finnish youth can continue to acquire higher education if they so wish?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u11	Madam President! As I said, Koivisto’s life cycle is unique in this sense: from a poor carpenter’s son to a doctor and president of the Republic, the President of the Bank of Finland. This is the dream we still want to hold on to. But now, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we concentrate on leaving the President. To the Koivisto together, a valuable farewell.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u12	Mr President! In view of the nature of this matter, the position of the nail is as far as the Prime Minister has just made his own contribution. I'm hating you, Mr. Prime Minister, for that comment. I just happened to ask for the floor because this appreciation of Koivisto would also be made available on this side. There is no doubt that it is a large Finn with all the indicators, whose central value for Finland is also that he led this country from the Cold War to a new stage in the right line of action. I was asking, Prime Minister, your idea of whether we should act with the same determination now in the European Union as at those moments when Finland's position on the world map was significantly resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u13	Madam President! As I said, President Koivisto piloted Finland over many difficult conditions, the Cold War, the Depression, towards the European Union. I agree with the questioner, Mrs Kanerva, that we must follow the same determination now that we are talking about the future of the European Union. In this difficult security environment, where we are currently living, we will find and be able to draw many things, for example, the President. The legacy that the Koivisto left us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u14	Next question, Congressman Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u15	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to offer my condolences to the people close to President Koivisto. I have great respect for the work he did for the country, and there is much left of Koivisto’s legacy that we need to hold onto. Mr President! Exactly a week ago, Finland began as President of the Arctic Council. The main theme of the presidency's programme is environmental protection, and so it should be, because the polar ice cap is melting fast. Unfortunately, not all the countries in the Council seem to agree with this. In the United States, President Trump again wants to allow oil drilling in Arctic waters, and Norway has issued oil drilling permits in new areas in the Arctic Barents Sea. If we want to succeed in mitigating climate change, no new oil field can be introduced, especially in the particularly sensitive Arctic region. My question, Foreign Minister Soini: how does Finland intend to make a concrete contribution as President to a permanent ban on oil drilling in the region?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u16	Madam President! I am very pleased that Finland has this Presidency of the Arctic Council at this very time, because our line is very clear. We want to take care of the environment, but at the same time we want to ensure in a sustainable way that people who live in the Arctic can live there, live there, earn their living. This situation, what? In the Arctic Council in the United States last week, it was rather narrow in terms of whether we can achieve a joint declaration, whether we can achieve a common will, whether the Paris Agreement is mentioned, whether the criteria for sustainable development are met. I am pleased to say that the Finnish negotiators were working on this package, which is a valid basis for moving forward. As far as Arctic drilling is concerned, they are matters of nation states.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u17	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask supplementary questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u18	Mr President! It is good to hear Minister Soini speaking here in favour of environmental protection and the fight against climate change. Other contributions have sometimes been heard, but it is wonderful that Finland has been active in this matter. But that is not enough if results are not achieved. The Arctic is particularly sensitive, and heavy fuel oil is a major risk to the Arctic environment, which many of the cargo ships sailing in the region use as fuel. In the South Pole, heavy fuel oil is banned on ships and it would be important to have a similar ban on the northern polar area. For example, the WWF has suggested that such a ban should be put into effect by 2020. Prime Minister Sipilä, when I asked you last year at the Nordic Council meeting whether, as President of the Arctic Council, you were going to push for a ban on the use of heavy fuel oil in the Arctic, your answer was yes. My question now is: in what way are you going to promote the ban on heavy fuel oil now that the President-in-Office of the Arctic Council has moved to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u19	Madam President! Finland has supported Canada's initiative to ban the use and transport of heavy fuel oil in the Arctic. However, we have a slightly different situation in the Arctic than in Antarctica. This means that for the time being, however, we must safeguard the supply of energy that the inhabitants of the regions have. But Finland is very active in this and has supported Canada's initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u20	Mr President! When the Arctic Council was set up in 96 C.E., it was, in a certain sense, a pioneer because it took a strong stand on the environment, on climate change, on behalf of indigenous peoples, and also involved the NGOs in the region. I remember that meeting myself. I represented Finland at the Ottawa meeting, and this was not self-evident that these things were accepted. Even then, Russia and the United States had difficulties in some areas. However, there was an additional issue with the Arctic Council at the time, and that was a security issue. It was thought that it could become part of this OSCE security structure. And today we see a world in which, in fact, the arms race is increasing, the threats of a new Cold War are hovering in the air, and relations between Russia and the USA are deteriorating. Do you see that in the Arctic, Finland could also take some initiatives in the interests of security during its Presidency?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u21	Madam President! This is an essential issue, and it is a very good thing that the Arctic Council and its work have so far failed to reflect the tensions between the major powers that exist in Ukraine, Syria, the Middle East. We want to keep it that the Arctic region is not militarised in any way. We had a good debate on this at the dinner of foreign ministers, which for a long time was attended by all the foreign ministers of the Arctic countries, including the USA, Russia, Canada, all the Nordic countries. This is our common goal, and Finland will keep this on the agenda. Let's invest in environmental protection, meteorological cooperation, education, communication and go through this positive. Then there's nature and the environment and many more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u22	Madam President! Yesterday, in the referral debate, there was a ban on HFCs, one of the elements of the Montreal environmental agreement. This is one of the best environmental policy agreements that have been concluded. It has been calculated that the ban will calm global warming by 0.5°C, and it is very important for the Arctic region because it will warm up twice as fast. Now that Finland becomes President of the Arctic Council, our programme is very ambitious and includes a lot of new technology, connections, meteorology and also things that could unite Europe with Asia. How will Finland, as part of the Arctic Council Presidency, promote a north-east cable project or rail connection to the Arctic Ocean and also play a strong role in the EU's Arctic policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u23	Madam President! Finland has launched a cooperation initiative with Asia and European countries to join us in building the cable of the North-East Passage. This was the case during my visit to China this weekend, and negotiations are currently taking place not only with China but also with Japan, Russia and Norway and actively with Germany. We have planned to have a joint expression of will by the end of this year so that, as a commercial project, the cable of the North East Passage could start in the course of next year. At this point, Finland is very active and also as an actor bringing together different countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u24	Mr President! Today, Finland has celebrated the opening of the Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council, and I would like to thank Minister Soini and the staff for their great opportunity. For us Finns there is now leadership in the European Union in Arctic matters. Do we know how to use the Finnish Presidency to strengthen Arctic expertise and increase business opportunities? I think this is a question of a thousand dollars. There are many things to be promoted: the North-East Passage project, the potential of tourism, how to increase awareness as an Arctic tourist country, and environmental issues. The first Arctic ministerial meeting took place in my home town of Rovaniemi in 1991 and adopted the first Arctic environmental protection strategy. I would like to ask Minister Soin: will the meeting of the Environment Ministers now be held in Finland during our presidency?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u25	Madam President! First of all, this significance. We have done a great deal of work in Finland to ensure that the European Union also understands the importance of the Arctic region, and understanding has increased. High Representative Federica Mogherini and Commissioner Vella will be here on 15 June. It is a very good thing that we have a high level of representation here and this is how we have brought up this agenda of ours. Of course we want a lot of high-level meetings. On behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who is not here at the moment, I dare not promise, but certainly the Minister for the Environment. The brick guy's doing everything he can to make this happen. If a little humor is allowed, then the Arctic is of interest to everyone, including those countries where ice is only in grogil glass.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u26	Mr President! Recently, in March, the European Parliament adopted a report on the EU's Arctic strategy, which attracted quite a lot of interest in Finland and also in other Nordic countries. This strategy must be focused on ensuring and promoting the conditions for economic activity, on the rights of indigenous peoples and on ensuring that competition for the vast resources of the region is not heated to the level of military conflict. It is also known that there is an EU observer status on the Arctic Council's table, as it were. I'm sure that's still an open question. In any case, this Presidency gives Finland a very good opportunity to influence the situation and development of the Arctic region. It is also an arena in which the superpowers meet its common goal — hopefully common — but it is also an area of interest to other countries, which are a little more distant. China's observer status in the Arctic Council may appear rather unusual.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u27	Madam President! There were many good points in Mrs Wallin's question. I'll grab two. In other words, this economic aspect: Finland was now also given the leadership of this economic aspect of the Arctic region. Tero Vauraste is now an active chairman. I believe that this will make the Arctic economy work in a sustainable way. For example, we have icebreakers and others we offer. 60% of the world’s icebreakers are made in Finland and all the good ones. That is a good starting point. Then this observer status: Yes, for example, China and many other countries will be interested if this ice melts, the permafrost relaxes. It will also affect their living conditions in China, including in other parts of the world, but it will certainly also be of strategic interest to China and may, at some point in time, also be of military interest to these Arctic regions, and it will be a challenge common to us all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u28	Mr President! I ask Minister Soin that, now that you have been discussing this Arctic region with the US authorities, among other things, did you get the impression that the United States was still involved in the same way as, let us say, there was reason to believe even a year ago, or is this current regime clearly giving up the goals that might have been seen then? The second part of this question concerns the fact that there are also such territorial water disputes and border disputes in the polar region. Are they, in some way, also becoming involved in this pattern in which we are negotiators?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u29	Madam President! The new US administration has not yet been fully established, there have not been the necessary appointments. It is clear that this administration differs from Obama's administration, but how much is it now? In my opinion, Foreign Minister Rex Tillerson showed leadership, and despite the pressure, he personally managed, for his own part, that these references to sustainable development and Paris came there. But we cannot yet be absolutely sure of this. Regional water disputes are not in themselves part of the Arctic Council's agenda, but they affect the security situation and the spirit, and, of course, it is important to ensure that all countries are involved in ensuring that these talks are maintained. It's the first time we've had one in a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u30	Mr President! Last week I was able to visit this region, the Svalbard, the middle of North Norway and the North Pole, and I was convinced with my own eyes of the reality of this climate change, that is to say, the ice is melting, that is, the water levels are rising, and this change is much greater in that area, as has been pointed out here, perhaps double, triple, this global warming. The issue of oil drilling is also important, but the crucial question is what is happening in the management of this climate change, and the key to this is whether this Paris agreement will be maintained. And now I ask Minister Soin: when you met the Secretary of State of the United States, Mr Tillerson, and took the floor, did you raise this very point that the most important thing is that the commitments made in the field of climate change and the Paris Agreement are maintained and that everyone commits themselves to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u31	Madam President! The Finnish negotiators worked very hard under the leadership of Ambassador Aleksi Härkönen to keep these remarks and to get them there in the declaration. And it is quite clear that this happened in the way that we did together, me and our negotiating team, all the time underlining this point — we alone achieved nothing, but together with the eight Arctic countries we made this declaration. It is not the most ambitious in the world, but it would have been an embarrassing start for the Finnish Presidency if the declaration had not been received. That they worked hard for this, and we did it. Unfortunately, however, I cannot be sure how the US administration will operate in general from now on. I hope they will stick to what they have agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u32	Next question, Congressman Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u33	Mr President! Kela’s practice is that if you find that someone has been overpaid for a reason or another, a realistic payment plan will be agreed with you. This is always the case, except in the case of a support customer. In these situations, Kela’s debt goes directly to enforcement, which means, of course, the loss of credit information for this person and thus greater difficulties in getting out of poverty. It is particularly harsh that this should be done even if the debt was originally due to a mistake made by the authority. In other words, Kela is miscalculated, too much support is paid and the person loses credit information as a result. Minister, is this right, fair and worthy of the Finnish system?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u34	Madam President! Income support is the last support for all people whose income or social security is not enough. Secondly, is it a decent life to be faced with such a situation? One message from the government regarding the transfer of the so-called standard part of income support to Kela has on several occasions been that if we have issues in the legislation that are incompatible with how Kela, for example, interprets the law in force and amends the legislation, if necessary. With regard to the matters relating to the debtor, the Minister of Justice is better to answer, but if there are problems at the change stage, it is prepared to take legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u35	I would ask the representatives who would like to ask further questions to come forward. — Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u36	Mr President! I am not quite sure whether the government is aware of this problem itself or whether it listened attentively when I tried to open it. This has nothing to do with the Kela transfer of income support, but with Kela's guidelines on how it collects its claims if the person is a customer of income support at all. Even if the authority made the mistake, the consequences will still be borne by that person himself. This is justified by the fact that income support is indeed a last resort benefit, but it is possible to go below income support, for example, when sanctions are imposed on a person, either 20 % or even 40 %. Instead, if a person would rather pay his debt than be subject to enforcement, such a practice is not possible. At least when the debt is due to the error of the authority, it would also be reasonable, at the very least, for the debt to be forgiven when it comes to a very low-income person. I should like to ask, Minister, if you have time to look into it and then do something about it. This is a very important issue for many people on low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u37	Mr President! As far as the Ministry of Justice's property is concerned, there will certainly be a debate with the Minister of Justice. The Ombudsman recently addressed the problems arising from the Kela transfer and stated that it would be difficult for the authority to handle these payments and the resulting delay. [Left: No, no!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u38	Mr President! This is a very relevant and timely question. People who have lost their jobs or are on low incomes and who are struggling with many challenges also find these problems for us in e-mail boxes. These are familiar problems. What can be done on the Ministry of Justice's side of the matter, because each organisation has a few different ways of dealing with these recovery issues and who gets into enforcement there must certainly now engage in even closer inter-ministerial dialogue. In particular, situations in which a low-income person is placed in an excessive position as a result of the activities of a public authority must now be particularly closely addressed in the development of enforcement legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u39	Mr President! On the eve of social chaos, we need to think more about who needs public services and who receives them. It is the low-income people who are paying for Kela’s income support that pay for it, and for example, pay phone services vaccinate the hand-to-mouth most severely. Minister, do not compromise personal customer service and, among other things, service charges increase inequality and are they not the most difficult to deal with those at risk of exclusion?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u40	Madam President! This was a complex issue, but apparently there was now a reference to the forwarding of the legislation under change in social welfare and health care. As far as we believe that the legislation that Parliament regulates will become a living life, there are, for example, a number of different articles in the freedom of choice legislation that contain, in particular, and specifically, the way in which customer guidance is to be done. Secondly, service providers have their own obligations. The financing model is such that responsibility and service guidance must be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u41	Mr President! Mr Rehula, you said that if Kela interprets the law differently from what is the law in force, i.e. implementation, it is as if it is different from the law in force which the STM has drawn up, then the law is ready to be amended. Kela has now made a line on the Income Support Act that, indeed, high school students are no longer entitled to income support if they have turned 18. However, there is an STM interpretative guidance on the current income support law, which is the opposite, i.e. that upper secondary school students are entitled to income support. Who is now misinterpreting the law, and are you prepared to change the law that the inequality of high school students would not increase because of this Kela interpretative instruction?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u42	Madam President! This question has been prepared, and it has been clarified, among other things, whether the Social Insurance Institution (Kela) and the Ministry have a different interpretation of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u45	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u46	Värderade fru talman! Det är dags att än en gång fråga om vårdreformen. Många av oss tror att vi har fått alla bitar, det vill säga landskapsförvaltningsbiten, valfriheten ligger nu är i riksdagen. Men frågan är nu om vi har fått allt. Är det ännu någonting på komande? Vad har regeringen för tankar till exempel när det gäller de privata vårdbolagen och deras vöjligheter att syssla med dagsurgi i framtiden?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u47	Madam President! With regard to this package of legislation, the Government has today made a supplementary proposal to supplement the regional funding law — the financial clauses for the social welfare and rescue services have already been here — with regard to the other tasks that will be assigned to the provinces, about EUR 1 billion. In addition, we have a legislative amendment in preparation at the Ministry of Finance relating to Åland, which is part of this package before Parliament, and that proposal will be submitted in the coming weeks so that it can be dealt with here. Mr Henriksson then referred to any other legislation. In accordance with the Government Programme, it is also necessary to be able to achieve savings of EUR 350 million through the division of labour in special care. In this respect, a health law was adopted in Parliament at the end of last year, and the current consultation is on the division of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u48	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u49	Värderade fru talman! Strax effect frågettin kommer vi att behandla frågan om medborgarinitiativet om fulljour vid Vasa centralsjukhus, det så kallade 12+1initiativet. Min fråga helt enkelt nu till minister Rehula är: Kommer ni att delta i den ox diskussionen, och om inte, så vad skulle ert svar vara ifall ni inte deltar?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u50	Madam President! The answer for these people who are waiting: take the newspaper The Pohjalainen in your hand. There has been an editorial about a week later, in which, for example, for the first time in the last year, one positive phrase struck me when, in the speeches that have been made here in the Chamber, you too, Mr Henriksson, have asked about this same issue and you have not believed, you have not trusted. At least some of us are suddenly in a situation where the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance themselves would have been telling the truth. You've said something else. So the answer to the people who have been concerned on behalf of the hospital in Vaasa: it is worth reading the Pohjalainen editorial. Secondly, there is a citizens' initiative on the table today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u53	Madam President! The county law and the social welfare structure law that arrived here in Parliament, this bill of over 1000 pages was delayed in such a way that it was supposed to come to the side of last year during the autumn session. We got it in March for our hearing here in Parliament. The Act on Freedom of Choice came after the May Day, although it was supposed to come in February. Therefore, the Parliament is now working at full efficiency and is going through this legislative package. There is now a threat here, however, when this has been delayed by the government, that there will be an excessive amount of time for this implementation, which will enable these provinces to stand up and take all these measures in an orderly and orderly manner. And with very limited and limited resources at the moment, I ask: is the government prepared to possibly postpone this implementation and this whole in time so that this can be done in a controlled manner and also that this whole package of freedom of choice should be transferred so that it can also receive proper and proper treatment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u54	Mr President! I would like to say about this preparatory work that has been carried out in the provinces, and then about the interim administration that will take place through this legislation. It is precisely this morning that we have been discussing in the reform ministers' group that if it takes several weeks here in the summer — which is now scheduled — in this whole package, then it must not matter between its preparation and the interim administration, but in every way possible to ensure that the provinces are able and able to carry on their own work. We have also been prepared for this in this year's budget, and we will also be dealing with an additional budget in the near future. Hopefully, additional funding will also be made available to support this important preparatory work in the provinces on the part of the State. Implementation is extremely important, not just what is being done on this legislative side, but the change that is actually being made in those regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u55	Next question, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u56	Madam President! The budgetary plan shows that the Ministry of Justice is subject to a budget cut of 49 million. The D.A.'s office can't handle the charge. The courts have indicated that the resources are insufficient and that the processing times are increasing. Debt counselling is transferred from municipalities to the Legal Aid Office and they report that the resources are insufficient. The number of district courts is reduced from 27 to 20. All this for the sake of savings. At the same time, the government will reduce car tax revenue by EUR 200 million during the Government term. I would now like to ask the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister: which is more important, the fact that the Christian Democratic Toyota man gets his car at a price of EUR 100, or the fact that the people feel that legal protection can be achieved? At present, all legal experts consider these austerity measures to be totally unreasonable. The new Minister for Justice,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u57	Mr President! A good question from the representative. After all, because of the economic situation, these means are being made, and if we had money like the Norwegian Oil Fund, we would not necessarily have to do these. But realism is that the fundamental pillars of the rule of law are not defended by saying that we do not make any improvements, that we do not make any reforms, that we do nothing. Realism is that reforms must now be made, operations must be stepped up, activities must be centralised to some extent, e-services must be increased — in order to ensure that citizens have the necessary high-quality legal bases, i.e. the services of the Public Prosecutor's Office and all other services related to the criminal process and a high-quality, independent judicial service. It is in the interests of every citizen, even if it can be obtained from a distance of 20 kilometres. But in a situation where a citizen, once or twice in his life, needs legal services, it must be of high quality, reliable, impartial and, above all, that every citizen can have a great deal of confidence in it, despite the savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u58	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u59	Madam President! Here is the realism of the Prosecutor General’s Office: the spending limits of the Public Prosecutor’s Office include a cut of EUR 0.8 million in 2018 and EUR 1.3 million from 2019 onwards. This saving is clearly oversized. This means that 15 prosecutors and 15 office workers will have to be dismissed. That means about 4,000 unsolved cases. The D.A.'s office will ask when Parliament will tell them which cases they will not prosecute and which cases will be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u60	Mr President! In the case of the prosecutor's office, the resource challenge is the same as in every sector of society, i.e. where the resources of care for the elderly need to be firmly adhered to, this must also be the case for the prosecutor's office. Some savings are now needed everywhere, and structural reforms are also being carried out for the prosecution's office, which will soon start here. It also involves improving the efficiency of operations, driving in new ict systems and others, which will save savings and secure the service, although there might be fewer staff. But by introducing new systems, concentrating simple cases will increase the efficiency of the service and thus secure high-quality prosecution in this country. Citizens can continue to be confident that even after these renovations, even under strong economic pressure, the cornerstones of the rule of law will be realised at the top of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u61	Mr President! The economic situation is very tight, but the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is perhaps the one that can be said to go best in many ministries. Of course it is tough, it is not disputed, but now the government has taken a number of good measures to lighten the processes and they are still coming. We have the budgetary plan in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights before us, so I will not open it any further. There are pain spots, a few points on which we propose improvements. What is more important, as the Minister of Justice said, is that you receive quality services even if you have to travel more than 20 kilometres. This is the goal of, for example, the reform of the judicial network. Now I would like to ask the Honourable Minister of Justice: How do you intend to cooperate with the Minister of the Interior, because this is chain thinking from the beginning of the criminal proceedings or the beginning of the administrative process to the end, at worst, right down to the prison? How do you ensure that this pipe works in every place equally and equally efficiently?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u62	Mr President! An excellent question from the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, about this way of thinking that the whole process from that pre-trial authority to that prison and the judiciary will always be taken into account so that no savings are made from the wrong place, so that costs can be channelled again. So the whole process thinking must be crystal clear and aware. It is the same as on the social side: you have to know that if you save on social welfare, it is channelled somewhere else as a cost. It is now good that this has become clearer in the state administration, that the criminal process must also be considered as a whole. We in the Ministry of Internal Security and Justice have already inculcated this issue with Minister Risiko, and every week we are going to go through these pains, the various stages of the process, and we are also naturally aware that, even if money goes to the Ministry of the Interior, it may not be out of the Ministry of Justice, because it will reduce the backlog of cases in court.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u63	Next question, Mr Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u64	Mr President! The assessment of the patient’s state of health by physicians acting as experts in insurance institutions is often very different. However, the assessment of insurance doctors is crucial when deciding on insurance benefits. An insurance doctor who has not examined the patient and is not necessarily specialised in the field of the patient’s illness has the power to assess the benefits the patient is entitled to and to contest the links between the injuries and injuries described in the doctor’s opinion. This practice is a major challenge to citizens' sense of justice. Minister Lindström, when acting as Minister of Justice, appointed a rapporteur as part of the justice development programme, to examine the practices of insurance law. I would like to ask Mr Häkkkäs: how do you intend to continue the good work undertaken by Minister Lindström to solve the problem of insurance doctors?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u65	Mr President! These cases and questions relating to insurance law have been receiving feedback from us in Parliament and, of course, from the government for years. So, of course, individual people who feel that the solution is wrong or incomplete or otherwise send us a lot of feedback. The first point here is that we must be quite vigilant in the comments made in this Chamber in the direction of the courts. The cornerstone of the rule of law is the tripartite doctrine of power and the complete independence of the courts. Individual cases are entirely a matter for the Court of Justice, and they are not addressed or commented on by politicians. But with regard to this general assessment of the processes of insurance law and, in a way, of the activities, we are in the process of conducting studies on how to ensure that the parties involved are consulted, that expert advice is better taken into account or that a more diverse opinion can be obtained there in the insurance law, i.e. studies mainly on these processes, so that insurance law can enjoy even greater trust and transparency than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u66	Next question, Mr Hakanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u67	Madam President! The sanctions imposed by an error in the register of animals do not in any way affect the public's sense of justice today. It seems inconceivable that in today’s Finland a very small registration error, such as a keyboard punching error, can cause damage to the producers in tens of thousands. Even the most conscientious farmer will not be able to avoid the dangers that may arise from inspections even retrospectively from years ago, even retrospectively. Producers have a wide range of registers and obligations and records for both purchases and sales of animals, there is a contingency plan, a fire and rescue plan, a list of animals, etc. The problem is that even a minor error and the subsequent recovery may also apply to other livestock payments and crop subsidies. Minister Leppä, what can be done about this unfairness to get rid of this and also this sanctioned accumulation that treats farms in a truly unfair way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u68	Madam Speaker! Mr Hakanen came up with an extremely important and correct point in his question. These sanctions, which are also cumulative, are perceived to be quite severe, are perceived as unfair, and they also test the legal protection of farmers, are not overcome and are not overcome. They are rooted in the regulations of the common agricultural policy. Finland has been active in presenting these changes in order to get rid of this. A slight concession has now come about so that, as far as cross-compliance is concerned, these register errors, human errors, will no longer result in the kind of sanctions that have been imposed so far, but in other support schemes linked to the register, they will continue to be the same sanctions and the same cumulations. Together with Sweden and Denmark and the Baltic countries, Finland has also drawn up a list of ten proposals for the Commission. This is included in these proposals and has been received with interest,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u69	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u70	Madam President! Indoor air problems are a major public health and national economic problem. Indoor air problems worry thousands of families. The most recent study shows that there are about one fifth of health care jobs with indoor air problems. They are found in schools, day-care centres and at home, and there is no light in sight to bring these serious problems under control in Finnish society. I wonder whether it is possible, when we need more stringent measures, for the government to set up a national study group to consider, to consider how to better tackle indoor air problems, and that working group would also propose measures and legislative changes. I would ask the Prime Minister, or the Minister for Finance, when this is also a big national economic question: is it possible that such a task force could be set up?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u71	Secretary Vehviläinen responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u72	Mr President! This question concerns many ministers, including the Minister of Housing Tiilika, and the Prime Minister also had this working group of liquidator Virtanen, and then the whole government decided in the middle session that we are going to work together, in cooperation with the state and the municipalities, on a farm programme which, in addition to seeking this improvement in the efficiency and construction of the premises, also involves the need to give our municipalities a better professionalism in that construction. There are examples: The City of Oulu has made such a dryware that they look at it from beginning to end that the construction process produces that the premises do not need to be repaired in a moment. There is quite a lot going on here at the moment, but we will be able to give some more concrete information about this in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u73	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, the debate is also allowed on the 4th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u74	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är helt unikt att så många har Engagerat sig för Vasa centralsjukhus ställning. Medborgarinitiativet för omfattande jour vid Vasa centralsjukhus har undertecknats av drygt 67000 medborgare. Sullan har vi på så kort tid sett ett så stort engagemang hos så många. Varför? Jo, därför att frågan berör. Därför att många ansett att Österbotten och Vasa centralsjukhus blivit orättvist behindlade, och för att man visa att det inte är okej. För att få regeringen att lyssna och att ändra sig. Det handlar om jämlik behandling av oss medborgare, det handlar om att vi i framtiden ska kunna ge basta tänkbara öjligheter att utveckla våra landskap. Vivill inte ha en toppstyrning. Det handlar om att vi är många som månar om att vården också i framtiden ska fungera vä såväl på svenska som på finska. Du ska kunna drunk trygghet i vardagen och veta att vården fungerar då du behöver den. Därför Engagerar det ox medborgrinitiativet så många. Och frågan är fortsättningsvis brannhet. Det märkte vi just au också på frågettini. Det som idaremot är trist, verkligt tråkigt är att Minister Rehula valde att inte vara är i salen nu när initialt diskuteras. Det är en signal, en tydlig signal — tuvarr — och en mycket nonchalant signal. Strax innan kommunalvalet debatterades ett let medborgarinitiativ austen som gällde Malms flygfält. Då var tre centerministrar på plats, med statsministern i spetsen. I dag är som sagt ministerbåset tomt. Det gillar vi inte, det gillar inte svenska ricksdagsgruppen och jag är övertygad om att många österbottningar förundar sig över hur man kan göra så ox. Värderade Talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen har variantt entydig i sin ståndpunkt från första början. Vasa ska ha fulljour. Vi krävde en 12+1-lösning i december då riksdage effecter segsliten debatt slog fast vilka sjukhus i landet som ska få fulljour. Hela opposition stödde 12+1, som var den enda rationalella lösningen. Det har funnits många sakargument som talat för fulljour i Vasa: Landskapet Österbotten är ett av landets mest framgångsrika, har en god sysselsättning, ett starkt näringsliv, en stor export och en stark tvåspråkighet. Landskapet Österbotten är också det landskap i landet där de språkliga rättigheterna tryggas bäst. Och det gäller också Vasa centralsjuchus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u75	Värderade Talman! Som ledamot Henriksson säger ox så är det ox en fråga som har Engagerat väldigt många. Socialdemocracy har i samtliga skden av behandlingen av den rai frågan stött 12+1 modellen, såväl i utskottsarbete som i plenum. För oss är det är inte en regionalpolitisk fråga utan det är en fråga om grundläggande ragtigheter. Vi vill töda en modell där alla finländares grundläggande språkliga ragtigheter tryggas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u76	Mr President! In this regard, it should also be noted that Vaasa is the furthest away from all university hospitals — already one of the reasons why medical care is needed at that angle, a hospital with 24-hour emergency services. Vaasa is also a growing city; it is an export city. But if there is no guarantee that there will be 24-hour care there, it will be an obstacle to the future growth of Vaasa and exports of the whole of Finland. Not to mention the fact that it is now required that the rights of the language be protected in Seinäjoki. It is all right that it is required, and it should be so, but it will never correspond to the fact that Finns who speak Swedish as their mother tongue receive services in their own language. Guaranteeing them in school Swedish does not give the Finnish Swedes the kind of security and the basis for giving them the real bilingual nurses and doctors, as we do in Vaasa at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u77	Irade the Talman! Regeringen hade under möjligheter sense höst att inse fact bakom frågan om fulljour för Vasa centralsjukhus och bevilja det sjukhuset denna status. Men i stället valde man att göra det rai till en prestigefråga och att stånga panan blodig mot den österbotniska furan helt i oödan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u78	Mr President! The citizens' initiative has collected more than 67,000 names, and it is good that people are active on important issues. I do not quite understand the fact that the Minister is not here, because the citizens' initiative is just in the referral debate. [Stefan Wallin’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u79	Mr Koski, Mr Strand, Mr Laukkanen and... Oh, well, I won't be listing you any longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u80	Mr President! I fully support the idea that Vaasa Central Hospital should have the status of extensive emergency services. However, this course of events, which has now been followed for almost a year, has always, as the case may be, received some of the most extraordinary twists. The day before the government presented its proposal for a reform of the Health Care Act, Mr Strand said that lobbying in favour of Vaasa will produce results, and today the citizens' initiative calls for a change to this additional paragraph. This week, Pohjalainen's editorial also states that the reports of the working groups on the division of work in special care and any significant changes to the functioning of Vaasa Central Hospital are not known or expected. This is also supported by experts. Article 43 of the Health Care Act, on the other hand obliges the hospital district to agree on matters such as division of labour, by means of contracts of organisation in the regions in question. Instead, what is agreed with Seinäjoki should also be agreed in agreement with the Pirkanmaa Erva region. And so
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u81	It's getting a little long.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u82	Mr President! I'll be surprised when we talk about nothing changing and everything stays the same. Is that Finland’s goal that nothing changes, at least not in the Vaasa region, where 2 per cent of the population imports almost 40 per cent of the country’s energy technology exports? Nothing changes — it is not a goal. We need to move forward, we need to develop. We cannot deny that the region, with its own money, is developing special medical care that is part of the ecosystem that competes globally, which also finances hospitals in other regions. I don't understand this. "Nothing changes." Is that the goal of the coalition? Let us not assess the impact on businesses, not on exports, and let us hope that nothing changes. Now, a little bit of positiveness and courage, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u83	The reply — was such a clear address — Mr Koski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u84	Thank you, Mr President. This special care division and on-call reform is precisely about changing health care in Finland as a whole and investing in basic health care, so that the costs of special care can be developed and balanced more correctly, which will benefit the whole nation. Nor would I be concerned about the economic area of Vaasa, because, although Vaasa is a place of migration loss, the state is very much supporting the whole of the Ostrobothnia — the added value of the region’s economy — with a variety of contributions to international and transnational projects, new innovation solutions and other millions of euros. One or two examples: Midway Alignment, Wasa Station. And, among other things, this regional financing law ensured that the net financial impact on Ostrobothnia is neutral.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u85	Mr President! This citizens' initiative seeks to reverse a decision which has been quite extraordinary and without really good grounds. The maintenance of extensive 24-hour emergency services in Vaasa is justified (1) by the linguistic speciality of the area — 100,000 people in the region speak Swedish, (2) because of the realisation of linguistic rights, constitutional law, 3) because of patient safety. It is very questionable when doctors who speak completely Swedish in their native language write patient reports and then send them to another hospital, where Swedish is spoken incompletely. What is the legal certainty of this patient when you cannot be completely sure that even his medical records and reports are properly understood? I really hope that this will succeed and lead to the conclusion that this will be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u86	Mr President! Mrs Feldt-Ranta is quite right that we are talking about the fundamental rights of all people and that we want the same rights for all, regardless of where we live. Now this citizens' initiative applies specifically to the Vaasa Central Hospital, but we all have these same rights, and then we always have to think about the fact that if we have a system that works in both Swedish and Finnish, why should it be broken? That's the question. Mr Koski, you also said that nothing will change. It is not so much, but the government is now choosing twelve A-regions, which are mentioned in this law, which is given extensive emergency services, and then we have six other provinces whose possibilities are limited. In the same vein it was also mentioned last week that, as regards children's psychiatric wards in Vaasa, for example, it is now under threat. I would like to ask Mr Koske how it guarantees the right of these bilingual or Swedish-speaking children to future psychiatric care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u87	However, despite the fact that the name of the representative has been mentioned here, we are now going to the responses that have been asked for a long time ago. — Next, Mr Urpilainen, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u88	Mr President! I have been very active in the municipalities of the province of Ostrobothnia, and I have seen in concrete terms how people are concerned about whether they are entitled to continue to receive services in their native language, especially on-call services in their native language, and therefore I understand the broad support for this citizens' initiative in the Vaasa region and in the province of Ostrobothnia. I am a little surprised when it was stated here in the Council of Ministers during the last Question Time that nothing is going to change in Vaasa. The question is precisely what will be the status of the hospital in the future, not that these services may change in the near future or in the coming weeks, months or years, but how that hospital will be developed over a longer period of time, and therefore it is essential that Vaasa Central Hospital is also part of a wide range of on-call hospitals in order to secure its future level of service. I hope, President, that this initiative will be carefully dealt with in committee, and I also hope that the government parties will still be able to assess their position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u89	Mr President! The regions are quite different, and now that we are talking about Southern Ostrobothnia, there are a lot of Swedish-speaking people there, and that is why we should think about how we can make decisions in order to take account of the specific characteristics of these regions. That is why the Greens have supported this 12+1 model, so that a large 24-hour emergency service will continue to be maintained in Vaasa. We share the concern expressed by the President that we will be able to safeguard linguistic rights if this emergency service does not survive there. There was no certainty about this when the law itself, which this citizens' initiative now wants to repeal, was dealt with and, on the one hand, we know from the reading that this is not an economic issue, and that is why we consider it important that this 12+1 model should be clarified and that it should be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u90	Mr President! It is important that all citizens' initiatives are treated with dignity, and I agree with Mr Henriksson that it would have been a good thing for the minister responsible to take part in this debate. It is a rather harsh answer to these 67,000 citizens that it is simply acknowledged that nothing will change until Parliament has even had a referral debate on the citizens' initiative or discussed it in committee. This citizens' initiative, in the case of Vaasa Central Hospital, is seeking to reverse the decision taken last December by a vote. In this regard, our parliamentary group shares the view expressed in this citizens' initiative and, at the same time, I would point out that this right was called into question in the case of another citizens' initiative, the Genuine Marriage Initiative. Nor had the bill yet entered into force,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u91	And let me give you the answers to the representatives of Strand, Koski and Stefan Wall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u92	Mr President! If you think about or relate this to nearly 70,000 people in the Helsinki region or to Uusimaa, it is probably the same as half a million people. I think there would have been a little more traffic in that ministerial box. If I heard from a representative of the government party earlier, they are not concerned about the economic area of Vaasa. Well, we certainly do, most of us who are currently here in the Chamber. And I'm also interested in whether any of this has ever looked into the future. For example, this Sitra study, which has an option for 12 regions in order of size according to the population forecast for 2025: Helsinki, Tampere, Turku, Oulu — fifth place in Vaasa — Lahti, Jyväskylä, Kuopio, Lappeenranta, Pori, Joensuu, Rovaniemi. Have you seen this? Have we looked to the future? Have demographic trends been monitored? Why are services not being developed where people are? We all know that the population density in Vaasa is almost five times that of certain other cities where there is now a large number of emergency services. It is a matter of status, as Mr Urplainen well said, and forward-looking development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u93	Mr President! When reference has been made several times in this debate to the fact that nothing changes, it is of course related to the comments made by these officials on this report by the STM. Of course, the government wants to look ahead and give the best possible conditions to the medical districts and the special responsibility areas themselves to develop their medical care in the way they see fit. Vaasa, on the other hand, as a hospital district, has unfortunately shown passivity in this matter and has not acted sufficiently to ensure that cooperation with Satakunta and the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi has already been taken forward. A study of the University Hospital of Western Finland should be carried out as soon as possible. Impacts and investments in Vaasa, Ostrobothnia Economic Area are only positive and the government has black and white screens of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u94	Mr President! Representative Koski referred here a little earlier, and Minister Rehula in Question Time referred to the editorial of the newspaper Pohjalainen. What is the foundation of social and health policy that this newspaper, the Editorial column of the North, suddenly is? What kind of witness to the truth is that all of a sudden? It is extraordinary if you have to read the newspaper in the Pohjanen editorial, what the government thinks about a particular matter. The government had all autumn to find out what was going on and what was not going on, but it failed badly in that task. Now we're gonna hear that nothing's gonna change. Well, would it be appropriate then to give this 12+1 full service status, quite officially instead of constantly squirming here and referring to editorials?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u95	Mr President! Has the government also examined how these hospital districts owned by municipalities have been developed and built? Vaasa Hospital District has the least debt in relation to equity. There are no such dimties built with debt money. There is now a large-scale standby status for hospitals with significantly more debt in relation to equity. Is it healthy economics to continue to promote such indebted medical districts?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u96	Finally, there are the replies to Mr Henriksson, Mr Feldt-Ranta and Mr Koski, and no further contributions will be made at this stage in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u97	Mr President! I do find it very strange that Mr Koski here now refers to what is being done and not done in the Hospital District of Vaasa. Now it is a question of what the government is doing, what the coalition wants to do in the government to ensure that there will also be a large number of emergency services in Vaasa in the future. That's what it is, Congressman Koski. We know how to work together, and I'm sure they do. It's very amazing that you're trying to defend yourself with this. As a Vaasar, you should make every effort to make sure that the government and ministers understand that now is the time to look at and understand that the only right solution is to go exactly where this citizens' initiative is also aimed, i.e. to adopt the 12+1 model. Secondly, if nothing changes, why and how is it possible to say that savings are also being sought, about 190 million savings? Where do the savings come from if
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u98	Mr President! So that this does not go all the way to a confrontation between the representatives of the North, it should be said that this is not a matter of regional policy. This is a matter for all Finns: fundamental rights, whether we believe that all Finns have the same fundamental rights and are respected everywhere in Finland. That's what this is all about. It is precisely for that reason, Mr President, that the President also intervened in this matter in a very exceptional way, and he, as the supreme guardian of the law, did an important thing in this regard when he attached such a pass to this decision. In the past, many decades, it has been a matter of honour for all the parliamentary parties that together we take care of these fundamental rights, including linguistic rights, and I hope that all the parliamentary groups will be able to uphold this long, very important tradition of stabilising this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u99	One more response, Mr Koski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u100	This is, Mr President, above all a question of regional policy. After all, the citizens' initiative was brought to the President of Parliament by the biggest winners of the Vaasa municipal elections: representatives of the RKP and the SDP. It is precisely the government's task to make it possible for the hospital district itself to have a broad decision on how it wants to develop the hospital district and the central hospital and its cooperation with other erva regions, such as the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia or the entire West Coast region. That is why, of course, when this debate has been undisturbed throughout the last year on the Pohjalainen columns, of course the Pohjalainen will be used as one reference, because it has been the main forum in which this debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u101	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u102	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! Riksdagens beslut att lämna Vasa centralsjukhus utan omfattande jour är problemmatiskt ur många synvinklar, men framför allt är det problemmatiskt därför att de grundläggande språkliga rättigheterna på det rasättet uppenbart riskerar att inte förverkligas. Vasa centralsjukhus är ett Välfungerande genuint TVåspråkigt sjukhus. Medborgarinitiativet har kommit till genom det stora engagemang som finns i den ox frågan, naturligtvis i första hand lokalt i Österbotten, men också på andra håll i landet där man är orolig för hur de språkliga rättigheterna ska förverkligas i framtiden. Det ox medborgariativet erbjuder nu regeringen och riksdagen en vöjlighet att ändra sin linje, att gå in för den modell, den så kallade 12+1 modellen, där också Vasa centralsjuchus skulle vara ett fulljoursjuchus. I motiverningarna till medborgariativet betonas vikten av att sjukhusen med omfattande jour phyller kriterier om tillräckligt befolkningsunderlag, avstånd till universitetssjukhus, språk, econom och kvalitet. Vasa centralsjukhus phyller alla de ox fem kriterierna för ett sjukhus med omfattande jour, dessutom med bed marginal. Dossutom anser jag att grundlagsenliga rättigheter och kvalitet naturligtvis bör ges ögsta prioritet i den arv frågan. I undersökningarna framgård det att Vasa centralsjukhus är i topp också jämfört med andra centralsjukhus som beviljats status för omfattande joursjuchus. Det enklaste och billigaste alternativet, och dessumom sett ur de språkliga rättigheternas synvinkel, det enda fungerande alternativet är att ändra älso- och sjukgårdslagens 50 § 3 moment så att det tillåter en modell med 12+1 sjukhus med omfattande jour, det vill säga att både Vasa sjukårdsdistrikt och Södra Österbottens sjukårdsdistrikt skulle beviljas rätt till omfattande jour. Då betyder det också att vi godkänner det medborgarinitiativ som nu behandlas, och också den lagmotion som kommenter som följande fråga på dagordningen, som över 40 ledamöter undertecknat och lämnat in och som tar sikte på samma sak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u103	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr Talman! Först vill jag taga alla de activister som ställt upp och samlat namn till medborgarinitiativet för fulljour vid Vasa centralsjuchus. Människor har Engagerat sig över partigränserna, Oberoende av modersmål och helt Oberoende av om de är landsbygdsbor eller stadsbor. Över 67,000 namn på bara dryga en månad är imponerande, och det visar hur viktig frågan är för Österbotten, för Svenskfinland och för hela vårt Fosterland. Rätten till god vård på sitt eget språk är en rätt som upplevs som oerhört viktig. Skulle regeringen ha agerat rationalellt och förnuftigt skulle detta medborgarinitiv inte behövas. Nu lat regeringen Sipilä partipolitisk egennutta och halsstarrigt prestigetänkande styra sitt beslutsfattande. Detta trots att det redan innan Senaste årsskifte stold klart för de allra flesta vad som egentligen behövs: omfattande jour aven till Vasa centralsjuchus. Därför att Vasaregionen har den mest dynamiska exportindustrin i hela landet och behöver samhällellig service. Därför att den grundlagsenliga ragtagheten till service på sitt eget språk ska förverkligas, och för att det landskap som har den bast fungerande TVåspråkigheten i hela landet, både för finskspråkiga och Svenskspråkiga, också ska kunna ha det i fortsätningen. Värderade Talman! Då jourförordningen behandlades i riksdagen förra året gavi riksdagens grundlagsutskott ett enhälligt utlåtande som ställer 12+1 modellen främst och ställer de språkliga rättigheterna också bakom grundlagströskel. Tog regeringspartiernas ledamöter i social- och älsovårdsutskottet detta i beaktande? Enligt min uppfattning inte. Behandlingen i riksdage vissade att lagpropositioninen innehöll felaktigheter. Chefsläkare Auvo Rauhalas utredning visite att både vårdresultatet var battre och kostnaderna lägre vid Vasa centralsjukhus än vad social- och älsovårdsministeries siffror gav vid handen. Och ändå beslöt man att gå vidare. Då lagen stadfästes tog till och med republikens president i ett sällsynt uttalande ställning till att de språkliga rättigheterna ska tryggas, men förhöll sig tveksam till hur detta i practiceken ska ske. Enligt Presidenten kan fulljour flyttas från Vasa till Seinäjoki enbart om det råder säkerhet om att patienterna får service på sitt modersmål. Varför lyssnade inte regeringen på de expert som säger att fulljour vid Vasa centralsjukhus vore det basta alternative för att trygga de språkliga rättigheterna? Varför?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u104	Värderade Talman! Vasa centralsjukhus fråntogs ställningen som fulljoursjukhus i samband med att jourreformen godkändes i december i fjol. Detta trots att flera utredningar övertygade att det inte blir dyrare att ha fulljour både i Vasa och i Seinäjoki. Många sakkunniga trodde inte Heller på att Seinäjoki centralsjukhus har tillräckliga resorter att klara av att ge service och vård på svenska.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u105	Mr President! Värderade Talman! I have often wondered about the lack of ability of many Finnish decision-makers, civil servants and many other influences or the lack of desire to understand the simple mechanisms of economic value creation and the dynamic effects of different decisions. In practical decision-making, the most important thing in the financing of Finnish welfare services is that of enterprise activity in a broad sense and, in particular, the operating conditions of the high-processing export industry are generally not taken into account at all for some reason. A sad example of the old-fashioned bureaucratic thinking of the sector is the change in the Health Care Act and the on-call system. On the basis of the political cow trade, Finland is supposed to be in good shape, as if things could be handled on an Excel table without taking into account the dynamic effects of the payer of social services, i.e. the industry. In the original government proposal, the matter is acknowledged by a single sentence: no significant impact on business. Quite sad for future generations, perhaps even over-indebted Finnish generations, that the impact of the performances on companies is not of interest. Mr President! There are sectors and regions in our country that are doing very well in global competition, forging significantly more billions than they consume to finance the welfare services of the whole of Finland. For example, in the Vaasa region, 2 per cent of our country's population lives, but almost 40 per cent of the total energy technology exports from Finland. Measured in euros, Ostrobothnian companies import more money to finance services than the five least-exporting provinces combined. This money is used to finance many hospitals and much more, and we are pleased about that, of course. In the run-up to the adoption of the Paris climate agreement and our own energy and climate strategy, we would like the government of our country to be proud of the fact that the leading Nordic energy cluster is located in Finland and Vaasa, which is also the only place in this country where private companies have significantly increased their investment in research and development in recent years. The President and CEO of Wärtsilä Finland, the leading energy cluster company, publicly stated how Vaasa Central Hospital plays an important role in their ecosystem and how the position of the hospital should be strengthened in view of the growth expectations of the coming years. I believe that the decision-makers of a small country dependent on exports should listen with a sensitive ear if the world record-engine manufacturers are talking about growth expectations. So, what's the government doing? With these prospects, we will consciously begin to weaken Vaasa Central Hospital and its status or at least explain that nothing will change, everything will remain the same. Ladies and gentlemen, staying in place is not an alternative to the global economy, at least not to a hospital belonging to the ecosystem of an internationally competing energy cluster. For different measurements of THL, Vaasa Central Hospital is also continuously in the top group of two three hospitals. In Ostrobothnia, the population is growing, unlike in many other regions. The population density of Vaasa is many times higher than that of many other provincial centres. International air and shipping traffic increases the risk of a major accident. It's the longest trip to a university hospital in the country. You've already heard a lot of other arguments here. In addition to the survey commissioned by Sitra Vaasa was ranked five, clearly one of the hospitals in 12 hospitals. The saddest examples of last century's sector bureaucracy or, in the worst case scenario, party tactics are comments that I sometimes heard that location on the coast would be a problem. You don't have to explore the Earth so much when you realize that major export and knowledge centres are located on the coasts, not in the middle of Australia or the Yankees. That is what international trade is and the regions capable of it should be strengthened from Finland's point of view. The government sometimes speaks beautifully of the breaking of standards and freedom to try, which is what we are in favour of, the dismantling of standards and freedom to try to do, but now it is by law denying the government's own employment objective, which has long since been achieved, to maintain, with its own money, a system of special medical care that belongs to the ecosystem of companies competing in global markets. We have talked many times about the need to bring the employment rate to 72. In Ostrobothnia, it is 74.5 or something along these lines, so there is no reason to go and harass a hospital that belongs to that ecosystem. Ladies and gentlemen, do not deliberately shoot the milking cow. The addition of Vaasa Central Hospital to the large number of hospitals on call strengthens the financing base of the entire Finnish public sector now and in the future. I sincerely hope that the following representatives of the government parties in their speeches will simply share or not answer the following question: are you going to do something about adding the Hospital District of Vaasa to the list of people on call, are you going to do something about it? I sincerely hope that you will do something. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u106	Mr President! It is a problem that the issue already adopted by Parliament will be re-introduced to Parliament on the basis of a citizens' initiative, but in this case there is, however, a rare consensus on the opposition of the population in the future Autonomous Province, so it is worth considering this further. And, as Mr Henriksson said, this issue will come up again in connection with the debate on this social package. That is why I am not making a proposal at this stage, but rather to fund and reflect on this issue in two important respects, and these aspects relate to the linguistic rights of citizens on the one hand and to social welfare and governance on the other. First of all, these linguistic rights: the question is, therefore, whether the rights of Swedish-speaking patients in Ostrobothnia will be realised in their mother tongue at the emergency clinic in Seinäjoki. In bilingual Finland, it is important that minority speakers can receive their services and be understood in their own language. This is particularly important in health care when it comes to treating serious illness attacks. I myself have once worked at the Vaasa Central Hospital, and I know that a significant proportion of the people on the coast and the archipelago really do not understand Finnish, unlike perhaps a larger number of Swedish speakers in Southern Finland. I am absolutely convinced that in a large number of cases they cannot be easily served in the Swedish language in Seinäjoki. When it comes to emergency services, it should be borne in mind that this is not just about the events at the on-call centre, but a larger number of patients will be admitted to the hospital ward for urgent treatment and observation. The President of the Republic recalled in his statement, which has already been referred to on many occasions, first of all the position of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, which states that "in connection with the on-call transfer, there is a statutory obligation of the country to ensure that Swedish-speaking people moving from Vaasa to Seinäjoki can use their mother tongue". And the President of the Republic stated in this rather exceptional statement, as has already been mentioned at least a few times, that "on-call services can only be transferred from Vaasa to Seinäjoki if there is certainty in the transfer that patients will receive those services in Finnish or Swedish according to their choice". Who claims that at the moment such certainty would be, does not know the situation or speak against better information — even though the hospital in Seinäjoki is in itself a good hospital. My second comment relates to this issue of social assistance. After all, in the broader context of this issue, it is a question of the balance between state control and self-government in the province, which I have already spoken about several times in this Chamber in the debate on social security. State control in big cases is necessary and, at the same time, it must be borne in mind that the social resources cannot be transferred to the strengthening of basic services unless our hospital institution is rationalised. But it is equally important that sufficient respect is given to the self-government of the provinces and not too much to master from Helsinki. The problem here is that separate decisions are being taken on hospital arrangements before the autonomous provinces have started operating. In my view, in a broader sense, this is not just a matter of 12 + 1 provinces, but of the autonomous possibility for all 18 provinces to negotiate, within the framework of their resources, the organisation of their hospital activities and, of course, of other social services activities and, in many cases, to negotiate the necessary cooperation with the provinces. I have never understood these different regional classifications: 18 provinces, 13 provinces, 12 special provinces, 5 university hospitals. We will have 18 self-governing, unique and different sized provinces which, according to their situation and resources, cooperate differently with each other and especially with university hospitals, and it is certainly good that the state is properly involved in many negotiations. In due course, the euro will be the best consultant and the provinces themselves will have to consider their solutions and indeed agree to cooperate with the provinces, especially in many hospital matters. The fact that these decisions are taken from above, forcing them to do so in this situation, is precisely what is causing these protests on the part of the citizens. In other words, in these matters it would be worth waiting as far as possible for the start of regional activity and subsequent negotiations and agreements between regions and with state control. Mr President! As I said at the outset, at this stage I will not take a stand or make a decision. This was such a fund-raiser, but I very much hope that a satisfactory solution will be found in this matter of on-call, which will actually take account of the statement made by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u107	Mr President! As I said earlier, I fully support the idea that Vaasa Central Hospital should have the status of extensive emergency services. Mr Henriksson is aware that Mr Koski is not personally responsible for the positions of the ministerial group in the Convention and that the Minister of Responsibility is a centreman. On-call reform: The Vaasa Central Hospital organises 24-hour emergency services for primary health care and special medical care. In the case of emergency services at Vaasa Central Hospital and other non-extensive emergency services, it is stated in the Health Care Act that the special responsibility area of the Hospital District must always have the right under the organisation contract to agree that a joint emergency services unit operating in the context of the Hospital District Central Hospital in its territory can be established as a comprehensive and functionally diverse unit of emergency services required by accessibility of services, distance between emergency services points and the implementation of the linguistic rights of the health care district population. The law clearly sets out the obligation to safeguard knowledge and resources to ensure the quality of care and patient safety. Article 43 of the Health Care Act notes that the wording "must be done", "to agree" on the areas and the contracts of organisation and the division of duties and responsibilities within them. This obliges the Hospital District of Vaasa to agree with Satakunta and Varsinais-Suomi, not South Ostrobothnia. According to the law, the Hospital District of Vaasa, together with the Hospital Districts of Satakunta and Varsinais-Suomi, agrees on the scope of emergency services. As far as the knowledge of the Swedish language of the wall rivers or the services of the underprivileged in the neighbouring region is concerned, South Ostrobothnia or the Central Hospital of Seinäjoki is not in any way involved in this agreement and, at least without agreement with the medical districts of TAYS, it is not possible to agree to rely on the Hospital District of Vaasa to provide emergency services at Seinäjoki Central Hospital. Paragraph 44 states that'may conclude an agreement'. This applies to cooperation between South Ostrobothnia and Vaasa. It is therefore a saying 'can do', not an obligation defined by law. To date, however, the Hospital District of Vaasa has not been proactive in any way in cooperation with South Ostrobothnia in so far as this obligation under Article 50 concerning the provision of services in Finnish and Swedish mentioned in the citizens' initiative has been included. In practice, this is how it is when you are twisted into wire. According to the current law, Pori also manages comprehensive emergency support for Swedish-speaking patients at Vaasa Central Hospital without the obligation to know Swedish, but under the obligation of the Seinäjoki Act, the patients are not directed to Seinäjoki. To date, statistics on patient care between the Hospital District of Vaasa and the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia are part of the normal cooperation of the Hospital Piiri. According to the statistics of the Ministry, five patients were transferred from the emergency services of Vaasa Central Hospital to the emergency services of Seinäjoki Central Hospital last year. Last year 19 patients from the Swedish-speaking hospital district visited Seinäjoki Central Hospital mainly because of minor wounds. VKS will not send patients to Seinäjoki from their own emergency services. With regard to the on-call reform, I would like to underline that in practice the Vaasa Central Hospital has been given the full freedom under the Health Care Act to decide on what kind of emergency services it wishes to maintain. The regulation, which has recently been consulted, imposes obligations on hospitals in a wide range of emergency services, but does not in any way limit the planning and implementation of the emergency services at Vaasa Central Hospital. There will be no obligations either. In my opinion, much powder has been burned on this issue in the Vaasa region, and there is no need to do so. Now, however, I think it is important for the region to look forward to the future and, at the latest, to take vigorous action in so far as the law allows and makes full use of it so that it can be in the front of itself and developing its own hospital and hospital district together with the other hospital districts on the west coast.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u108	Mr President! I very much appreciate the citizens' ability to influence the important issues of our society through the citizens' initiative. However, I find it questionable that the debate on the background to the subject under discussion has increased the fears and concerns of citizens on grounds that are primarily political, not health policy. The legislation in force enables the Vaasa Central Hospital to agree 24/7 emergency services together with the Hospital Districts of Varsinais-Suomi and Satakunta. When examining the functioning of health services, the whole service chain needs to be considered. It is quite true that there is a shortage of Swedish-speaking doctors in the Vaasa region, especially in basic health care. According to the latest statistics available, the deficit in the Vaasa region is around 10%, while in the rest of the country, at the same time, the health centre doctor deficit is around 3.4%. The majority of on-call service needs can be covered both in Vaasa and elsewhere in Finland by a general medical service. That is why I am particularly concerned about the willingness of doctors speaking fluent Swedish to take up duties in the Vaasa region. Swedish-speaking doctors in Finland are relatively well trained. The region must ensure that the willingness to move and the willingness to work in the area can be ensured by doctors who speak Swedish fluently. Empowerment factors must also be offered to those working in service jobs when there is a strong export industry and other growth-oriented entrepreneurship in the region. However, the problem of special level emergency services is a completely different issue. Vaasa Central Hospital, in cooperation with other actors, can therefore maintain 24-hour operational activities. The part of the units of extensive 24-hour emergency services is also obliged to maintain emergency services in small special areas. I wonder now whether it makes sense, for example, to maintain a neurosurgery emergency service in two hospitals with a distance of 80 kilometres. I can tell you that it is almost 80 kilometres from the extremes of my own city to the only overnight emergency unit in the province. The training of professionals in special hospitals is long and professional skills must be maintained on an ongoing basis. They need to be able to deal with enough different types of patient in their daily work in order to be able to handle the most difficult on-call cases. The training of such a group of specialists and the maintenance of their skills is not possible with the total number of patients in the area under discussion. I do not want to comment on which city, Vaasa or Seinäjoki, it makes more sense to arrange emergency services for a wide range of special care, but I know that it makes no sense to maintain two units that are so close to each other in all these special areas. However, I am sure that when I become seriously ill, I want the professionals who treat me to have the highest level of professional competence. In an elective or pre-planned special medical treatment, we must continue to focus on demanding treatments. For example, in the surgery of colon cancers, the more repetitions the surgical team has, regardless of other patient-related or disease-related prognostic factors, the better the patient’s prognosis. So it is very important that we be able to focus on the most demanding treatments that do not occur several times in life for the individual patient, for most of us not one single time in life. In the planned medical treatment measures, the patient’s linguistic rights can be safeguarded even if they are concentrated in a single hospital in Finland. As I have said before, I regard the exercise of linguistic rights as a fundamental right. The decisions taken do not conflict with this principle. I now call for constructive cooperation in the region, particularly in order to alleviate the unnecessary concerns of people and patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u109	Mr President! I wonder about Mr Raassina's point of view on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u110	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Henriksson for his expert speech and for his analysis of what he did on the basis of my speech. I meant, if you listened carefully to what I said in my speech, that it is important that your native language can be used in emergency situations. But when we talk about specialists in special medical care, we need to focus on activities, because the professional skills of these professionals cannot develop if they are unable to meet patient cases adequately in their everyday work. Another problem is that the population base in the region imposes its own limitations on the number of such specialists in each of our special care districts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u111	Mr President! It is clear that certain things need to be centralised, and everyone agrees with that. But you can look at this Sitra survey, which has an alternative to 12 regions in order of size according to the population forecast for 2025: 5 Vaasa — Helsinki, Tampere, Turku, Oulu, Vaasa. It's okay. Let's just focus on it. But now we have this political cow trade behind us. That's why people have reacted to the fact that they haven't gone to health before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u112	Mr President! It is obvious that Mr Raassina is not sufficiently familiar with the situation in Ostrobothnia and with all the know-how there is in the hospital. In the comparisons made by THL, Vaasa Central Hospital is placed quite high in terms of patient safety, and Mr Strand has raised this issue many times. That is why it would be good to refrain from facts and also to read and understand what is actually being done if we do not give Vaasa full and extensive emergency services. It is true that cooperation is needed, but it is not excluded, even if a model is chosen that is 12+1. I believe that there is a need for cooperation between many hospitals, but that does not justify punishing the hospital that operates both in Swedish and in Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u113	Mr President! I must say that I agree with Mr Raassina in part. I too believe that it is much more important for a surgeon that he has a stable hand than whether he speaks Finnish, Swedish, Saami or Chinese. I am sure we can agree on that. But at a time when a patient is diagnosed, it is extremely important that the patient be able to tell us what part of the condition is sore, which is why a certain part of what is being done is swelling. We're going to get it together. I have only just been following a case where blood poisoning was first diagnosed and then it was discovered that there was a bacteria in the bone, and there was a need for mutual understanding. This is why we need Vaasa and Ostrobothnia, where 51 per cent of the population are Swedish-speaking and 55 per cent of the population are non-Finnish-speaking, such a hospital,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u115	Värderade Herr Talman! Frågan om fulljour i Vasa är viktig och engagerar. Därför är frågan i riksdage igen. Medborgarinitiativet har samlat över 50,000 namn på rekrodsnabb tid. Det visr hur mycket den kors frågan berör, inte enbart i Österbotten, utan också i andra delar av landet, inclusive mitt eget landskap Åland där många också skrivit under medborgariitiativet. Att Vasa inte skulle få ha kvar sin omfattande jour skulle reserve anmärkningsvärt. I vårdreformen har vi ännu under öjligheter att rätta till riksdagens beslut från december. Vårdreformens propositionner har också satt saken i now ljus. Man måste se till att below 85000 Svenskspråkiga i tvåspråkiga Österbotten också har tillgång till en fungerande jour på sitt eget modersmål. Att ätta upp scyltar på svenska gör nämligen inte automatiskt att Seinäjoki sjukhus fungerar på svenska. Det behövs verkliga ansträngningar för att Seinäjoki i så fall ska klara av att serva den Svenskspråkiga befolkningen på sitt eget modersmål, Vilket är en medborgerlig och grundlagsenlig rättighet. Det logiska skulle därför reserve att fortsättingsvis ordna fulljour både i Seinäjoki och i Vasa, i synnerhet om man har tänkt att allting ska vara och fungera som tidigare, något man har sagt tidigare i kväll. Då skulle det logiska vara just en 12+1 modell. I december rain man från social- och älsovårdsministeries sida att en så kallad 12+1 modell inte skulle bli nämnkärt dyrare att ordna. Då är frågan var skon klämmer. Det är den lösningen man brode gå in för. Det är det enda logiska. Att Vasa ska ha fulljour också i fortsättningen borde vara en självklarhet för att bäst garantera de Svenskspråkiga österbottningarnas grundlagsenliga rättigheter. Problemet i förslaget i december var att man ställde grundlagsenliga ragtigheter mot varandra. Rätten att få vård ställdes mot rätten att få service på sitt modersmål. Att ställa grundlagsenliga rättigheter mot vaandra riskerar att göra grundlagen till ett smörgåsbord där man väjer viika bitar man tar. Det är en farlig utveckling, och just därför måste man så långt som öjligt undvika att tilla sådana rättigheter mot varandra. Det ox behover man ta lärdom av för framtiden. Den ox saken hade man municipalities undvika också i den arv frågan i december, och det kan man ännu göra i frågan. Åland påverkas inte Dir. av vårdreformens sjukårdsinnehåll eller jourbeslut. Ålands hälso-och sjukgård hör till Ålands självstyrelses befogenheter. Men på Åland har vi följt frågan activt efftersom det är en principiell fråga som på sikt också riskerar påverka svenska språkets ställning i landet. För att det officiella Finland ska kunna fungera på två språk måste det också finnas fungerande Svensk- och tvåspråkiga strukturer. Den ox reformen riskerar påverka de strukturerna negativt. Av den raus anledningen är det av fundamental vikt, inte bara för Vasa, utan hela tvåspråkiga Finland, att Vasa också i framtiden får ordna omfattande jour. [First Vice-President Mr Mario Pekkarinen : Representative Mr Tomppanen. Oh, I'm sorry, while Tolppanen is approaching the speaking room, during that time the interpretation of the previous one. [MariaTolppanen :I need them!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u120	Mr President! One reason for receiving extensive emergency care was the distance from university hospitals. For example, the distance from Rovaniemi to Oulu is 223 kilometers, from Joensuu to Kuopio 135 kilometers, from Lappeenranta to Helsinki 224 kilometers, from Vaasa to Tampere 241 kilometers and from the University Hospital of its own erva region 330 kilometers, i.e. the longest distance in comparison to anything. But this was not now considered important in relation to Vaasa. Too much of the population will have to travel to a large hospital in Seinäjoki by more than an hour, and it has to be said that even Pori cannot be reached in an hour from Ostrobothnia. If we leave Vaasa and higher and a little lower, there will be much more time. It has to be said, however, that Ostrobothnia is long and there are more languages spoken in Ostrobothnia. 51 per cent The population of Ostrobothnia is Swedish-speaking. It consists of between 5 and 6 % of people in other languages and then the rest are in Finnish. This is a cold fact. There's nothing we can do about that. Here's the thing. We have nearly 100,000 Swedish-speaking people in the long Ostrobothnian region, and a large proportion of them, especially the older population, cannot live in Finnish. They need Swedish to support them. Then what does it do? What does it take for a hospital to be a bilingual hospital? Not only is it possible to talk to patients — we can go a little bit with dialects and get along anyway — but it also requires that all hospital newsletters, all documents, must be bilingual in Finnish and Swedish. And how do we do this? This can be done by having translators at the hospital, just as is the case at Vaasa Central Hospital, and by having Swedish teachers, just as we do at Vaasa Central Hospital. The price tag for this is about 1.5 million a year. In addition, it has been calculated that at least one ambulance is needed between this larger hospital in Seinäjoki and the hospital in Vaasa, with an annual cost of approximately 0.5 million. They're coming in on top of that. And it must be borne in mind that these services in Swedish cannot be removed from the central hospital in Vaasa, but the costs will also remain there. These should be taken into account. It has also been said here that we must look to the future. So we must look to the future. Nothing's gonna hold still. The world is developing, medical treatment is developing, health care is developing, and so must the Vaasa Central Hospital. At Vaasa Central Hospital, we must quickly obtain the services you will receive at the hospital on a large scale, just because we have an energy cluster for the time being. It is still in Vaasa, it is not in Umeå, and in order for it to remain in Vaasa, we need to be able to provide city-level services to the people, international experts who come to Vaasa, to the level that they are able to come there, that there may also be jobs for spouses and potential generations, and that there will be care there when treatment is needed. These are the important things. In my opinion, at this point, even counting these costs, it would be much cheaper to have this extensive emergency service in both Seinäjoki and Vaasa. The nonsense about going to Pori's emergency room, excuse me, is ridiculous. That is where we spend many funerals before people get there, for example when they get a thromb on the head, unfortunately. Over an hour’s journey to a high - quality hospital is far too much. We need a hospital. The Swedish-speaking population of the town of Vaasa alone does not need that hospital. The Finnish-speaking population of the city of Vaasa, the Finnish-speaking population of Ostrobothnia also needs their own hospital and a hospital with extensive emergency services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u121	Mr President! Värderade Talman! I would like to start by thanking Mr Buska for a very good and constructive speech. I hope that he will also be listened to in the central parliamentary group and in the wider government. There is clear ministerial material in Mr Puska, a broad-based view that we would need at the moment on this issue as well. Mr President! Many questions have been raised here during the debate, and the ministry is still empty. I believe that it would also be appropriate to have direct answers from the Minister, and that is why at this stage I am proposing that this matter be put on the table on 23 May. The plenary session will take place on 30 June 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u122	Representative Anna-Maja Henriksson has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 23 May 2017. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u123	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u124	Mr President! Värderade Talman! Jag ska inte upprepa de argument som jag hade i behandlingen av förra ärendet, men jag konstaterar att de gäller också i den arv frågan om lagmotionen för att ändra 50 § 3 moments i social- och älsovårdslagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-18-ps-56.u125	Representative Thomas Blomqvist has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 23 May 2017. So it stays on the table. Now I am asking for views if there is another time for table setting.
