ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u1	The second point of the order of business is oral Question Time, so I would ask the ministers present to move to that ministerial box. And now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u2	Congressman Urplainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u3	Mr President! The clinic is a familiar service for all families with children. The uniqueness of child health clinics is precisely that they reach all families with children regardless of the wealth or place of residence of families with children. Investing in the well-being of children and young people is a real investment in the future. This was also stated in the report on family services that I commissioned as Minister of Finance during the last parliamentary term. Therefore, the clinics must be taken care of and developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u6	Madam President! Mr Urplainen's question is most timely and important. Child health clinics worldwide, with their maternity kits, are a world-class project and a great achievement from us. I think it is very important for all of us parties, regardless of their positions, to work together from the left to the right on this issue and to ensure that we continue to have clinics that operate, which provide high services on a low threshold. This is an extremely important issue. The government is doing its part, and I am very pleased that the opposition is also raising this important issue. Of course, we need to pull together to ensure that these services are developed, preserved and secured as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u7	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, to the Prime Minister's deputy for this willingness to cooperate. Child health clinics and school health care are important public health work with children and young people. We have a very broad consensus here in Parliament that school health care will not be incorporated but will continue to remain a public service. This is a very good thing. Instead, the situation in maternity clinics is different. In line with the Government’s policy, maternity clinics can be incorporated in the future, and many experts wonder about this policy. In fact, I have not found any experts who would support this government policy. So, Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, I ask you: why do you treat school health care and counselling centres differently? Why do you accept that the clinics should be incorporated? Aren't maternity clinics as important to you as school health care?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u9	Madam President! Of course, the advantage of children and schoolchildren is everything to us Finnish decision-makers, because how they can and how they develop and grow will determine how we will all be taken care of later, because they will pay for and maintain all of this. That is why it is extremely important that we move forward on this issue in the very way that these services are being developed, carried forward, constantly tested. You asked me about the practical arrangement. The clinics are going to be decided by the provinces, and I believe that voters in the provinces will vote wisely and elect representatives to the provincial councils that share these common concerns and take these policies into account. It is a very democratic way that all the decision-makers, the candidates, in advance tell us how they want this maternity clinic to work, and then when they do
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u10	The minister responsible, Mr Rehula, continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u11	Madam President! The content, conduct and renewal of the clinic activities are governed by Section 15 of the Health Care Act. and a regulation on clinics. It is the substantive development the legislator has. The hand of cooperation is in place at this stage, and it is precisely in the regions where it is being prepared to do so, on the one hand, with regard to services, with regard to the network where any future service activity will be physically located, and, on the other hand, with regard to the way in which these multi-professional actors will be brought together, the way in which family centres will be created, with the expertise that is not even there at the maternity clinic level. This is a key issue and the hand of cooperation that you, Mr Urplainen, are offering here must be on the table. It must, if any, be there today in making the provincial level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u12	Mr President! The history of child health clinics is long and glorious. It has been a long time since Arvo Ylppö set up a child health clinic in the children's castle. There was one large room, and the advice and treatment were given to each person present. There was no privacy in front of the person present. The development of child health clinics started from these and is now at the top of the international agenda. However, being older today is not easier in a modern information society. Because of rapid development and knowledge, as well as the accelerating change in recommendations, learning in a childhood home cannot necessarily be drawn into your own parenthood. Therefore, maternity clinic activities are still needed in the future. In order to leave the maternity clinics unincorporated, they must be removed from the social welfare centres. I ask you, Minister Ruhula, are you doing this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u13	Madam President! I repeat what I said in the previous answer: The content implemented by the clinics from the point of view of the legislator and the government is contained in Article 15 of the Health Care Act and in the regulation on maternity clinic activities. Secondly, the responsibility for the way in which the clinic is a service provider in the everyday situations of family encounters rests on what is happening there in the provinces — without blaming the provinces. It is not the fault of the provinces if there are problems in regional activity, but the development work that is necessary must be done there at local level. The regulations will provide a framework for it. The Government has stated that the province will decide what is the position and place of the maternity clinic administratively. And I would like to emphasise, and I cannot help overemphasizing, that the regulations will continue to govern all maternity clinic activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u14	Mr President! Now that school health care has been left out of this incompetence, and here the opposition and experts have also hoped that the maternity clinics would be excluded from this incompetence, and then, in this debate, when the Prime Minister's deputy today and the Prime Minister themselves in previous debates have hoped that in the provinces the maternity clinics would be excluded from this incompatibility, the question arises that, if this is such a unanimous political wish that the maternity clinics will not be incorporated, that is why it has not been managed in the early stages by legislation, so that they will have the same value as school health care, and that they would be outside this incorporationism. Could the Minister answer that question?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u15	Mr President! The representative referred about four times to the merger. The Sipilä government doesn't have any kind of corporate rage. [ Illustrations from the left — Laughter] Secondly, what is blissfully forgotten will have to be repeated, we will continue to have standards that guide it in the everyday service of people. Thirdly, we are building a family centre model, it has been done for years, we currently have several dozen people all over Finland to build it and make sure that those children who, for example, need support and those families who need support in their own life situation are able to do so on time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u16	Mr President! Finnish maternity and child health clinics are one of the best functioning parts of our health care system. They reach 99.7% of pregnant mothers and 99.5% of all children from birth to school. The Finnish child health clinic system is admired in the world. Now the government accepts in practice that maternity clinics can be incorporated in different parts of Finland, and the only way to avoid this incorporation is to remove them from the social welfare centres. So if the province refuses to remove them from the social welfare centers, then the maternity clinics are forced to be incorporated. Mr Ruhula, when you say that the government has no incentive to enter into a partnership,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u17	Madam President! There was an interim debate in this Chamber the other day, and a delightful number of people followed that debate here. During that debate, I also received a number of feedback on the issue of maternity clinics in favour of the social welfare centre being the service provider of the service that will be closest to people in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u20	Madam President! In yesterday's Guest pen Esa Iivonen of the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare and also Kirsi Pollari of the Finnish Federation for Child Welfare write that confusing freedom of choice threatens family services. They write that this government model divides services into a difficult-to-managed entity, and it is the most vulnerable and disadvantaged families that suffer most from it. This is particularly inappropriate for families who need multiprofessional work and also long - term help. The Government’s proposal also contains the idea that a 12-year-old — a 12-year-old child — could choose from these service providers. Mr President-in-Office, this freedom of choice model is taking these people into the bureaucracy mill and leaving them to their own happiness the most vulnerable families, and especially the children who need child protection and also the help of the multiprofessional professionals. Can you please tell us what happens in such a situation to these most vulnerable families?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u21	Madam President! I have come to know you, Mr Essayah, about the factual and unfavorable views and questions. I guess it's this time that makes even smoother people get a little warmer. [ Hustles from the left] First of all, you asked me if a 12-year-old was willing to make choices. In its proposal, which we will bring to Parliament, the government will change that age limit to 15 years precisely because it is estimated that the 12-year-old is not yet capable. Of course, the Child Welfare Act, for example, states that a child must be heard from the age of 12. It's got its own logic, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u22	Mr President! Our child health clinic system is absolutely first-class and very important for public health objectives. This week, THL researchers expressed their concern about the fragmentation of the maternity clinic system in the hands of various organisers. For example, vaccination coverage, which has been very well cared for by maternity and child health clinics, is at risk of being reduced. We know that in many countries where vaccination is carried out in the private sector, different coercive measures have been taken to ensure vaccination coverage in order to ensure that vaccines are given in time and thus to provide adequate protection for children. How do you intend to ensure that we continue to have sufficient vaccine coverage and avoid the dangerous diseases of our children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u23	Madam President! Do we, in this Chamber, believe in the provisions that Parliament is adopting? Do we believe in the lower standards that guide, for example, the implementation of vaccination programmes? If you believe in those provisions, then there is no cause for concern about a reduction in vaccine coverage. I understand that in a situation like this, experts are concerned. So has the government been concerned that basic services today do not work in a way that could satisfy us. There is no concern about vaccine coverage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u25	Madam Speaker! Now let's give credit to the county council. Let us now give credit to provincial decision-makers for implementing the legislation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u28	Mr President! On Monday I visited a maternity clinic in Kokkola, which is physically located in connection with special care for children, precisely because there would be the most functional care chain. Now that I am listening to this debate, Mr Ruhula, I have the impression that the only way to prevent the integration of maternity clinics is to remove the maternity clinics from the social centres, which is the work that has been done in Kokkola, unfortunately, is going to be wasted in this respect. But, Mr President, the most remarkable thing about this debate is that both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's deputy are appealing to the provincial decision-makers not to enter into the negotiations. Why do you make such an opportunity if you are against it? There will inevitably be an interpretation that the city centre and the Finns of Peru are hostages of the National Coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u29	Mr President! We must interpret the situation in which we are today if the way in which you have built up is to be dismantled in Kokkola. A model has been built in Mikkeli as the second county centre, where you go through the same door to a basic child health clinic as you go to special care at a demanding level. These are examples. There is no text in any existing document, no information that would require these really working models, future models to be dismantled. Secondly, we do not expect the county leaders or just trust. We have a legislative role, we are making legislation in a way that we trust it, we believe it, we know that provincial decision-makers can make the right decisions for the situation in which each province is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u30	Next question, Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u31	Mr President! I am concerned about the position and poverty of the low-income Finns. When you go around Finland, many people will tell you how the position of a person with a special low income has deteriorated due to government cuts. Reductions in diabetes, celiac disease and travel and medical allowances have taken up to hundreds of euros a year for many unemployed or low-income pensioners. It has increased poverty and increased the length of bread lines. Government spending limits are coming in a few weeks, and now Finns deserve to know what the government is planning. In the past, the government was exposed to heavy additional cuts, since then there has been talk of employment and growth measures to avoid them. However, the Prime Minister said that the easy way has already been used, so the question arises as to what the other means are. Is this really about cutting subsidies? So, Minister Orpo, is the government planning cuts in spending limits for low incomes, such as housing allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u32	Madam President! The main task of the government's mid-term review is to ensure that the deleveraging continues, to strengthen economic growth and to take action to enable more and more unemployed people to take up employment. That is our unambiguous aim, and we in the government parties have jointly said that we are doing so much that we no longer need to cut or adjust. That is what we are committed to and I think this is a good message for the Finns. One difficult question is that we need to solve the problem of matching work. We currently have tens of thousands of job vacancies, while at the same time we have 250,000 unemployed. We must see what we can do to dismantle these so-called incentive traps. That work is done carefully, but under no circumstances can we make decisions that undermine the position of low-income, low-income people. If we change something within the system to make it worthwhile to take work, then it must be done in such a way that any money saved from something is redirected elsewhere in their disadvantaged position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u33	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u34	Mr President! It is a very important message that the government will ensure that the dismantling of the incentive traps is a human uplifting action which will improve the position of the weaker, not shake or squat, and we will stick to this promise, Minister Orpo, then at the time of the spending limits. But another problem is that high long-term unemployment among young people threatens to lead to permanent exclusion from working life and education, and the price of one young person's exclusion is estimated at up to EUR 1 million. We can't afford to lose the kids. The economic price is high, but the human price is even higher. Government cuts in education, especially in vocational education, are now increasing school drop-out. Helsingin Sanomat estimates that as early as the past year, 1600 jobs have been lost in vocational education and that reducing the number of teachers will inevitably reduce local education, and reducing the number of local education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u35	Mr President! The social exclusion of young people is our common challenge and we must find solutions. It's a serious matter. I know that previous governments have also pursued this objective of reducing the number of young people not in education and employment in Finland, and unfortunately this has not happened. That is why the government has already set up a ministerial group several months ago, which is looking for new, more effective ways of tackling the exclusion of young people and raising young people from outside education and working life on educational paths and working life. It will of course require us to make efforts to promote employment, and then next week, or possibly in the near future, as soon as possible, the reform of vocational education and training will play an important role here in order to build more flexible paths. In addition, the government has already secured funding for, for example, workshop activities and the skills programme for young adults, outreach youth work and so on. But new measures are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u36	Madam President! This exclusion of young people and exclusion from working life and study is a huge problem in this society, as the representative described, and that is what the government has really addressed. We have already directed more funding to this, and at the moment, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said, we are preparing new measures. We have looked at the main lines of government, the main priorities of the mid-term debate, that if there is room for manoeuvre, what are the funds spent on? This situation of marginalised young people is a very strong link between this government and, if there is room for manoeuvre, we will move on this issue. Unfortunately, this is all we can say until the whole thing becomes clear when we prepare for the debate, but the focus and the objective are clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u37	Mr President! It seems strongly that due to municipal elections, the government is heading towards the spending limits bar with a switched-off lantern. The Economic Policy Review Council estimates that the Government’s economic and employment policy objectives are not being met. It is good that the government has said that it will refrain from further cuts, but the great concern of the people is that right after the municipal elections the government will present weakenings or cuts to people’s housing allowance and working conditions. It is good that Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, contributed to mitigating these threats, but can you give us some concrete ideas on how you intend to promote employment and the economy after the municipal elections? What are these measures, among other things, to tackle the problem of confrontation in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u38	Mr President! With my experience of two governments, I must say that the determination of this government to achieve economic growth and to improve the employment situation is indeed admirable. What we have succeeded in doing is that our economy has started to grow. On average, growth of 1.5% is forecast for this year, and economic growth will continue for next year — that is to say, the recession has been brought to a halt. That's the first key. Now we need to strengthen this. Indeed, at the moment, we are preparing means on a broad front. This problem of matching is one of the obvious: if we have job vacancies once, then we will have the simplest solution to find those Finnish unemployed, and that is what we have this incentive trap work that I was talking about in the speech earlier. Another issue is the strengthening of the competence of innovation activities. There we are working on the preparatory work so that we can dismantle these bottlenecks that exist in a scarce resource situation. This is the kind of thing we are preparing. In addition, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has a long list of issues related to the development of business activities and the dismantling of barriers to employment, which I am sure Minister Lindström can continue with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u39	Madam President! When concrete is asked, I will now try to open up a little of what we are doing, among other things, without going into detail. One big thing is that tens of thousands of people are trapped in an incentive trap by the problem of the protection element of enforcement or its impact. In this context, there will be a very specific proposal for a mid-term debate, and I believe it will help many people. Then, as a second large entity, there is the management of positive structural change so that we can spread this good in the rest of Finland, which has come to Western Finland and Varsinais-Suomi, the Satakunta region. Let us consider the ways in which we contribute to a positive structural change. Facilitating the recruitment of the first employee, measures to this end. These are concrete — and there are many other things besides the measures that have already been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u40	Madam President! This is very important if all young people are to be involved in education and employment. We have a very large number of young people who are not happy at vocational school, and people who do not feel it are falling out of the education system very quickly. I would have asked the Minister: in what way will this reform of vocational schools bring more solutions to this issue so that young people can finish school? The second question is that, when we begin to strengthen the Ohjaamos — and this is what we also had to discuss in the Youth Guarantee Group — and now that the Ohjaamos are being spread around Finland, how can the third sector be effectively involved in making those decisions and also contributing to financing, while they are still able to go a little further, for example, on the 24/7 principle, and the municipalities are not able to bend to that extent again. How do we get this third sector to support those young people who need more help to study and get to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u41	Mr President! The commitment of society as a whole to the prevention of social exclusion among young people is needed, and third-sector assistance and support is also needed. The programme of this government is the nationalisation of the Ohjaamo activities, and the idea of the Ohjaamo is that a young person should get the service he needs from one door, just what he needs to get ahead in life, to find his own direction. There are many good experiences of this, including Lahti and many other localities. Then the reform of vocational education and training, which is under way, stresses the recognition that each of us is learning differently and also at different speeds. We have many young people who, even after primary school, would like to get closer to work; in the old days there was talk of a master—a race model, now there is talk of learning in the workplace. With this reform, vocational training will bring more from the beginning of next year and will be piloted in various parts of Finland, and the experience will be excellent. Among other things, these are ways of helping young people to find their own path in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u42	Madam President! Government policy has been very unequal and many cuts have been made to the same people. For example, low-income, high-income pensioners have been affected by increases in customer fees, pharmaceutical reimbursement cuts, diabetes as well as 50 per cent's own responsibility, Kela trips, coeliac pay — many who have weakened the position of pensioners and caused them new income traps and low incomes. I would like to ask the Minister whether it has been thought that, in the spending limits debate, the position and purchasing power of pensioners could be improved in some way, for example through taxation or otherwise, because now many of these cuts have caused very serious problems in everyday life and life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u43	Mr President! Thank you very much for the important question of pensioners and in a broader sense, of course, for all low incomes. The Prime Minister has set up this Juho Saare task force, which is looking specifically at the position of low incomes at the moment, and we are waiting for the results of this task force. As far as I am concerned, I am not at least in the middle of bringing any additional cuts to the pensioners, but of course it has to be borne in mind that the middle row will not be ready until it is fully covered. I do not know if there is anything more to promise, but as far as these drug operations are concerned, they have now been done for this time. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health also has a working group on medicines, which specifically focuses on the situation of low-income people and those who use a lot of medicines at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u44	Mr President! I very much hope that postponing the mid-term session over municipal elections does not mean that the government is planning further cuts or sticking the unemployed. Instead of picking up the unemployed, the government could take measures to support employment, for example by facilitating retraining and studying with unemployment benefit. I hope you are ready for this, because the road to social security cuts has already been completed. The government has cut the income of students in particular. I would like to ask: do the government no longer envisage new measures to reduce the income of students, but could decisions be taken at last on the separation of care rates, which would make life easier for families with children who are studying in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u45	Mr President! Another important question is how to secure the future income of students. It is quite true that students are in many ways tight when student support becomes more loan-oriented, but accordingly this government has decided that students will be transferred to the general housing allowance, which will increase the support for housing for a large proportion of students. Similarly, the government has decided that the health services of university students will be secured in the future and that universities of applied sciences will also be able to access these high-quality student health care services, which will help, for example, in mental health problems and in these situations, which are unfortunately common for university students. In secondary education, the impact of parental income on student support will be eliminated, i.e. it is a major improvement and an important perspective for those secondary students living alone,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u48	Next question, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u49	Madam President! I would like to raise a question which is perhaps the biggest problem at the moment here in Helsinki: the price of living is too high. This is a problem for all growing cities, but it is a special challenge in Helsinki. The high price of living is already an obstacle to employment when the job offered cannot be accepted, because the wages it receives are not enough to cover the high housing costs. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have localities where the value of housing is only falling. In this kind of place of migration, where jobs have disappeared, these people are really, really in a difficult situation. Otherwise, if they had the desire and opportunity to move after work, it may be impossible because the old dwelling cannot be sold and at the same time should be able to move to a city with ever higher housing costs. I would have liked to ask Minister Tiilikainen: What are the government's means in this regard? How can we influence the price development of dwellings throughout Finland so that this problem of matching can be solved so that jobs and people can find each other?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u50	Mr President! Mr Modig's situation picture was correct. The cost of living really makes life difficult for ordinary people here in Helsinki, and then, in areas of migration loss, housing prices are falling and that makes life difficult for people. That price of housing is determined by the market, and that is why the government has made determined efforts to increase housing production, especially where there is a shortage of housing. The results are quite good: the number of start-ups in housing construction has increased by 50 per cent compared to the time of two years ago. It knows more housing, it knows more supply. We have also increased all kinds of state-subsidised rental housing production and opportunities to build more right-of-occupancy housing. The construction of student housing is also commendable. Much is happening, but the needs are also great.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u51	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register. — Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u52	Madam President! Minister also The brick guy's got a pretty good picture of the situation. After all, the City of Helsinki has one important way in which we can create affordable homes. It is the city's own state-subsidised rental housing production. Helsinki is Finland's largest landlord, 90000 people live in rental dwellings in Helsinki. You, Minister Tiilikainen, you have set income limits for these rental dwellings for new contracts. This was widely opposed in Helsinki across party boundaries, because we saw it as leading to unequal development in the regions and thus contrary to our objective of developing the whole of Helsinki equally. A couple of weeks ago we were, Minister Tiilikainen, in the same election panel on housing policy, and you were asked that when the real-time income register allows us to see whether the ARA production, that is to say the city's rental housing, is moving to regular checks on income. You said then, and this is a direct quote, 'no one will, of course, be harmed by an existing lease', and you went on to say to me, 'Don't go into a completely intellectual case'. Well, the Ministry of the Environment's website now has an invitation to tender for a survey,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u53	It's a lot of overtime now!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u54	Mr President! The most affordable form of housing in Helsinki is, of course, provided by long-term rental housing production, 40-year rental housing production. It is more advantageous than market-based per square metre of rent than several euros. Therefore, the conditions for this long-term rental production will also be clarified: how can the attractiveness of this long-term rental housing production be improved according to the will of the Parliament? Further: the agreements with the Helsinki region on land use, housing and transport have set aside 30 per cent for this low-cost rental housing production, which is such a good goal. As far as these income limits are concerned, the subsidised production is, of course, intended for those who are most in need of housing for their income. Bring a single income limit of EUR 3000 — if you knew Finnish income distribution statistics, Mr Modig, more than 80 per cent of Finns
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u55	Mr President! One way of reducing the pressure on urban housing is, of course, that people who want to live and live in their own region can do so. Digitalisation will give us more and more potential to move work outside large settlements, too, if that is what we want and are determined to do. I would like to ask Minister Lindström: what are we doing to remove these obstacles, for example, in regions where the network is still weak, the attitudes of employers and the legislation on working time that puts obstacles in the way of teleworking?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u56	Madam President! There has been a debate within the government on how we can keep up with these new forms of work, so that we have legislation that allows and does not prevent it. This has been discussed and, of course, this will of course require further examination of what the new job is. We have talked about the platform economy, and everyone knows what it is about, but do they know what our legislation requires that it be possible? In a way, it is a place of long reflection, and this work is, of course, being done all the time at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, where we think about what this requires, for example, in terms of holidays, the working time law and taxation — this is a matter for the VM again. Yes, these things have been discussed, but I would like to say in summary that we must have legislation that allows these new forms of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u57	Madam President! At the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I am about to launch a working group that will conduct an AI action programme in Finland. At the moment, artificial intelligence is perhaps one of the biggest trends in the world that is going on and that we need to harness. Personally, I strongly believe that the use of artificial intelligence will change Finnish working life, the form of working, to remove distances more than anything that has happened before. This working group will be appointed in the next few days and then they will draw up an operational programme and then it will be extended to an AI strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u58	Värderade Talman! When considering construction costs, the dismantling of standards is often raised, which is a good thing. But it's not worth looking at when you're trying to break the standards, based on speculation. One tool here could be test construction. On a regular basis, new building solutions have been sought in Finland through the Housing Reform Competition. Should we do the same now? In honour of Finland’s 100th anniversary, would it be advisable to launch a design contest to find future housing solutions? Finding a test site for the best proposals, even in the pearl of Uusimaa in Kirkkonummi
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u59	Mr President! Making experiments is one of the fundamental ideas of Sipilä’s government. Experiments can be carried out in many, many administrative sectors. For example, I would see that Kirkkonummi is a good place, but I wish it were a great opportunity for the Östersundom region. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u60	Madam President! Minister Tiilikainen, in the rental housing of the City of Helsinki, only 9% of the residents belong to the two highest income categories, i.e. the problem you are solving does not exist. These income limits are therefore a bad thing that they lead to inequalities between houses and regions. People have been able to live in this city’s rented dwelling for 20 years, they are part of that community, and suddenly you are moving on to regular income border checks, which means that when someone’s income increases, they are in danger of losing their home. It's gonna be a new incentive trap. Would you answer me again, Minister Tiilikainen? Why, two weeks ago, did you say that no one is, of course, involved in an existing lease agreement, and now it is on the Ministry of the Environment's website that you will order a statement in which you will find out at regular intervals that incomes will be checked or tampered with?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u61	Mr President! Mr Modig, two weeks ago I said that as it is. I said no one's existing lease will be tampered with. That income limit set by the government applies only to new ARA rental agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u64	Next question, Mr Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u65	Mr President, ärade talman! Uppratthållandet av vägnätet hör till de grundläggande uppgifterna för samhället. Den au vintern har variety speciellt svår med tanke på vägunderhållet. Bristande resurser och varierande väderlek har lett till att det bildas kraftiga spår och till att vägarna har variantt osadade i långa tider. Det auri har i sin turt till utkörningar och kollisoner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u66	Madam President! Thank you for the question. General maintenance of roads can be done through ely centres. At the moment, we are in fact assessing how road maintenance can be developed more efficiently and safer than road safety. In any case, we are now going to have to analyse this issue more closely, as the provinces will be responsible for basic infrastructure management in the future, and it is also necessary to assess here the criteria and criteria for doing this. Resources are all the time tight here, but even on this issue, digitalisation is useful and we are trying to analyse more and more the condition in which our roads are, what road maintenance should be in the future and how it could be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u67	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u68	Värderade fru talman! Det är ju bra att man utreder den bull saken. I will not allow sak som har gjort det svårt, åtminstone för mig när jag försökt ta reda på saker, är att det verkar ganska krångligt när det finns den som ansvarar för vägunderhållet och sedan har man underleverantörer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u69	Madam President! It is precisely this issue that will now be substantially changed in the context of the regional reform. The L-responsible areas of the Ely Centres will become part of the province's tasks, and in the future the provinces will organise them. It is true that the chains are long and there are a lot of subcontracting chains, but more and more it becomes more important to have a long-term view of our roads, and the management of our repair debt is also affected by the condition in which our roads are of fundamental quality and how we can improve the overall road management. But during this term of government, almost EUR 1 billion will be invested in the road repair debt, which hopefully will also have an impact on road maintenance and maintenance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u70	Mr President! In my view, the deterioration in the condition of roads during this winter is an indication that the debt of repair has actually grown to such an extent in recent decades that it is now visible in more and more pits. When the question was asked as to how road maintenance, plowing, and so forth affect this, this is a matter under the basic lineage. At this point, I would like to ask the Minister: Although these roads are in bad condition, this government has indeed invested in road maintenance and basic bus maintenance funding. Could you give us some more figures on how much this government has invested and intervened in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u71	Madam President! A report on the correction debt for the previous period was carried out as parliamentary work, and it said that we owe EUR 2.5 billion in reparation. During this term of government, we have placed additional investment, 600 million, on the repair debt. In addition to this, we have transferred EUR 364 million from development projects to repair debt — that is, basic infrastructure management, as you say. But our repair debt will also increase by 100 million per year, and in order to have all our infrastructure repair debt settled by 2027, it would take 300 million per year to make our roads unrepaired. From this point of view, we need constant reflection on how to build our infrastructure investment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u72	Mr President! It is important to invest in the correction debt, but the truth is that winter maintenance criteria have been relaxed. There will be a great deal of feedback from professional drivers that you will not be plowed until the next day, that roads will break down, there will be dangerous situations. Can you in this House promise that, when next winter is hopefully coming again, these criteria would also be tightened up and not relaxed all the time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u73	Madam President! In terms of both the repair debt and the maintenance of the basic route, we are currently assessing what the effectiveness of this money really is and how the winter care and maintenance of our roads will produce results. On this basis, we will then assess the criteria that will be needed and how this work could be managed more effectively in the future. It is certainly the work that will be done and is currently being prepared by the Finnish Transport Agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u74	Madam President! Today I was at a forest industry event in Tampere, and there was concern that, just as Mrs Wallin said, this road management varies by region and by ely district. Apparently, it is here that these subcontractors are so tightly drawn in these contrasts that they may not handle them well enough. In addition, there was concern about how, when we have a really big bike going off in this bioeconomy and the Äänekoski will be completed and all the other factories, the roads will be able to withstand these huge big trucks when they have already gone into the structures of these roads in bad condition. It's no longer on the surface. It's in the structure. I understand, of course, that we are almost a billion already making money, but 2.5 billion is this repair debt. Will it be noted that this wider use of the forest industry will also burden the road and also the foreign trucks?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u75	Madam President! A lot of this bioeconomy runs along private roads, and during this reign, the central government shares of private roads have been increased by EUR 30 million. From this point of view, we are also trying to show that we have the opportunity to support the work that is involved in the maintenance of private roads. The second package, which will then be linked to this long-term funding, is currently being assessed by the parliamentary working group, which last met this morning and whose results will be precisely on how to develop long-term investments in the correction debt and development projects and jointly resolve them by the end of February next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u76	We have one more question to ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u77	Madam President! We all know that with entrepreneurship and risk-taking, Finland will rise. All of us from an entrepreneurial background also know very well that there are risks to entrepreneurship, in the worst case scenario there is also a risk of bankruptcy. After all, it is often the case that as a result of bankruptcy, many entrepreneurs have also been imprisoned for a long time, indeed a long time, behind their own responsibilities, even for so long that there will no longer be any conditions for entrepreneurship in the future. In other words, debt imprisonment lasts at its worst for decades. It may be argued, however, that we are losing a huge amount of entrepreneurial capacity as a result — entrepreneurs who think of a new start cannot start again. My question to the Minister of Justice is this: has the government planned some sort of study, at least and even a implementation, on how to promote a genuine new start for bankrupt entrepreneurs and thus a new power for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u78	Madam President! Yes. Yes, the government has planned measures, and this will also be discussed in the middle of the debate. Personally, I think it is very important: once the entrepreneur has taken that risk, he has not now committed any crime in it. We have too many of these fates, and we must be able to intervene in this matter. I believe that there is a good consensus in the government parties on this issue and that we will certainly find ways to help these entrepreneurs to start that new start. Of course, once the EU has become a directive, it will be linked to this debate and to the measures that the government will then take — I believe that there will be light there too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u79	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 3/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The debate on this subject will take place until 7 p.m., i.e. 2 hours. If necessary, the general discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 7 p.m., move to the next item on the agenda, that is, paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u80	Mr President! The first thing I would like to say is that I am sure that there will also be speeches in the debat, some of which will then be answered as a representative of the Finnish People's Party, and yet now we will be taking up this role as President-in-Office — that is to say, a presentation by the President. Basics: It is now a traffic cycle and it is precisely its first step from the government's proposal to the proceedings. There will be two more of these, i.e. phase two and phase three. In phase two, other modes of transport are included than what is in phase one, and phase three in particular is then such an inspection phase, i.e. it is considered that the whole works. The committee has made a number of changes to the traffic cycle, and from now on even its name has changed, i.e. this is the law on transport services. This is a good illustration of the content of this law. This is no longer like the laws that this repeals. We are no longer talking about the type of vehicle in question, but about the services that people need. This change of thinking makes it difficult to read and interpret this law. As an example of the work of the committee, I would like to point out that at some point we had to think seriously about the definition of what a taxi is. When this pattern of thinking changes so much, those sections are written in such a form that if you read them with an old pattern of thinking, you may not find the right outcome. In any case, this law is life-saving, so it focuses on those services, and at the heart of it is that new forms of service, new forms of transport, can evolve. One of the most critical aspects of this is that information and payment interfaces are opened up by law, that these travel chains can be created without hindrance. This is so important that the committee changed, among other things, the entry into force of this paragraph, which already opens on 1 January 18. This now means for all transport operators that these IT changes, which must be made to their own system, are worth starting to do. As I said, in phase two, other modes of transport will be involved in this. It is extremely important that all modes of transport are involved in this law in transport services then, because if, for any reason, a mode of transport were outside this legislation, it would jeopardise its involvement in these future transport chains and this whole would not work as it has been thought. There has been a lot of debate about the part of taxis in this debate and, above all, about the professionalism of how to define this. This has also been the case under the committee's magnifying glass, and this has been made several times by various sides and has been the subject of attention. This is also the very essence of this legislation, because this is the very first paragraph and the first paragraph where this definition is made, i.e. professional transportation on the road means the transport of persons or goods on the road for the purpose of obtaining income for compensation. When this was discussed through, this is such a form that sustains modern everyday living and professional traffic. These definitions, which are here, are very far-reaching in the current laws, and the ideas that are there are in practice. If, according to a few experts, this word "for the purpose of obtaining income" had been acted upon and taken away, then it would have led to the need to make such an exception list, which would have defined that the mother-in-law you will be allowed to transport, if he offers you a coffee cup, and you get a neighbor to take you to practice if he gives you a little gas money and so on. But if it had happened outside the list that it was not the next neighbor, but the next neighbor who goes along with your daughter to the same skating exercises, and there comes a little effort, even if the coffee cup, it would have required a taxi license from the parent who takes the friend of his child to the same training. This is very diverse and very difficult to read if you have not internalised the fact that services and not the vehicle are being defined. On the other hand, there has also been a lot of discussion about whether a moped can be a taxi or not. According to this definition, there may be different types of vehicles. There may be, for example, a passenger car, a van, a lorry, a tricycle, a light four-wheel or a heavy four-wheeler, and there will then be passenger traffic in return for that compensation or payment. If a vehicle type had been taken out of this list, it would in practice have led to the fact that it is not taxi traffic and therefore it is allowed to operate in passenger traffic without the obligations of a taxi, so this section is also something that should be in exactly the condition and model that it is here. But since this is such a big change and the big changes are also a change of perspective, it is very important that the consequences of this be carefully monitored as to what will happen here. There are three statements here which underline the importance of this monitoring. At the same time, let us remember that this is the first stage of this legislation, so the feedback will enable these problems to be addressed and addressed. In fact, at this point, when the Minister is present, I would point out that the Ministry is also obliged to monitor the amendments to this law and the possible irregularities which can then be corrected in Phase Two and Stage Three. But there is one of these statements here: 'The government requires that the Council of State evaluate the definition of professional transport on the road, particularly as regards the fight against the shadow economy and, if necessary, take measures to ensure a healthy and fair environment for the transport market'. This is precisely a statement to prevent the shadow economy and to highlight the fairness of this professional transport. We have, among other things, found ourselves in a situation where, at the moment, a taxi is being handled in such a way that it is actually identified by the cab dome and, in part, obliged to keep it — not in all its forms, but nevertheless it is a basic point of departure — so now, because of this difference of view, we are in a situation where it is determined that anyone has the right to use a taxi cup, such as a public symbol set for a taxi, and in others it is prohibited. The whole point of view has also changed at this point. There's a lot of changes here. Among other things, this test has come in for the taxi. It has been defined, which means that the taxi driver will still have a test which we want as a basic form of quality to meet its minimum requirement. But then the holder of the taxi licence is still obliged and responsible for the skills and skills of the taxi driver, his service ability. This is precisely the basic level. Then again these taximeter patterns and receipts: The liability comes from other legislation. Now that the public has thrown the idea that it can be any note, it really cannot be. The receipt has its own precise definitions of what it is used for. The meter should be when it is time-based or on a journey, and these prices must always be visible in advance. That's the starting point. Then, if you meet the same definitions, there may also be technological neutral alternatives. But at the heart of it is that the tax office receives the information and the mark is left on payment transactions, which means that the informal economy will not be created. But since there are things here that change so much, this monitoring is very important. At this point, we have also increased supervisory rights for the police, Customs and the Border Guard. As regards the grey economy, one statement has also been made, which reads: "The government requires the Government to ensure that enforcement of traffic regulations subject to authorisation remains effective and that the reduction of licensing regulations does not create phenomena related to the black economy or market failures." We have drawn attention to this. Since time is running out, I will go to this third statement, which generally covers the whole of this legislation. When this is so big and in three stages, the third statement reads: "The government requires that the Government closely monitor the effects of the legislative package now being adopted and take action, if necessary, without delay, to amend the regulation. The Government shall provide the Committee on Transport and Communications with a written report on the impact of the Act and any need for change by the end of 2018 at the latest. A report on long-term monitoring and impact must be submitted to the committee by the end of 2022 at the latest." [The President : Now!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u81	There are now so many requests for answers that I would ask you to reserve them with the V button, and everyone will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u82	Madam President! Indeed, the Committee on Transport and Tourism did a great deal of work in the laws on transport services, and the report has also well identified the risks posed by the changes. The grey economy was already combated in advance when those making tax-free income up to the so-called ten-ton limit are not involved in this. There is a lot of new thinking in this law about the future: digitalisation, travel chains, the coordination of ticket systems. They're all good things. Are the means right for taxis? You'll see it when it's easier to get into the business. And of course it must be followed, as these statements stress, but there is no point in dramatizing either. The customer decides which space — he does not have to order moped taxis, for example. The safety of taxis and the legitimacy of pricing are important issues. The taxi must indicate the price in advance. And, in the end, taxis did not want to break out of this law, but this bill was adopted by the Government of the Taxi Federation, even though, of course, there are a few duubies for them. The driver test has been brought in, and that is a good thing. Taxi identification, taxi lamp and taxi meter or similar device must be available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u83	Madam President! The law on transport services will take us in transport services from the 21st century onwards. There has been a desire to dismantle standards and to even out the possibility of entering into new transport services. Today, passenger and freight transport has been reformed and legislation has been harmonised, digitalisation and travel chains have been improved and a common ticketing system is expected for all different modes of transport. At present, EUR 30 billion is spent on transport on an annual basis. It is a huge pot, and if we want to increase competitiveness in Finland, especially in the area of passenger and freight transport, we need efficiency, operational certainty and lower costs for both users and entrepreneurs. The world is changing around us, and in my opinion, transport laws must also change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u84	Mr President! I have here a copy of the interview with the chairman of the committee, Ari Jalonen, in which he says he believes that, based on the current taxi system, taxis are best placed to develop their operations to better meet the needs of customers and a changing society, and how reliable is a Finnish taxi and other good for this current taxi system. We Social Democrats believe that the current Finnish taxi system is the best in the world — it is reliable, safe, it is always and everywhere available — and we simply do not understand why the government wants to scrap this current system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u85	Madam President! In 2015, shortly before the parliamentary elections, Mr Alatalo, you said in the newspaper: "According to press reports, a tourist may have paid up to SEK 10000 for his taxi trip in Sweden, i.e. more than EUR 1000 for a trip of ten kilometres." Then you go on to say: "When a neoliberal exemption is planned for Finland, we should realise what happened in Sweden, for example. Is this what they want for us too?" This goes on so that Alatalo says that in Sweden taxi customers are being tricked daily and the grey economy is rampant: "In a free competition, taxi services are concentrated in the most populous areas and there is oversupply. At present, scheduled taxi quotas also guarantee on-call services at an unprofitable time in remote areas." Are we really going to want all this now, as Mrs Alatalo has condemned Sweden in the run-up to the parliamentary elections? This same system is currently in use in Tallinn, and we have countless bad examples of how people have been tricked in these situations: the grey economy is rampant, and fraudulent taxi entrepreneurs are getting more arenas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u86	Mr President! Indeed, I have drawn attention to what has been happening in Sweden. There the government intervened in the fact that pricing should not be too high. And of course there are also two types of taxis in Tallinn. I see the future in such a way that it is a brand, when there is a reliable taxi, which also has a taxi name, its own color. For example, in Sweden I use taxis from TaxiKurri or Taxi Stockholm, I do not use the very ones that price over this job. After all, this report on the draft law has made a number of improvements. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u87	Madam President! When there was a referral debate on the traffic cycle in October, then you, Mr Alatalo, said: "But of course it is also particularly important that the station, at least mainly, remains.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u97	Mr President! There it is. We have just proved that Mr Jalonen has said that in this matter the Finns have turned their coats perfectly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u100	Mr President! The Finns have not turned their coat. The benefits of Finnish taxis have been driven, and the views of Finnish Finns and the Finnish Taxi Association have, by chance, always been similar, so the benefits of taxis have been driven. I would now like to stress that: The Taxi Federation saw that it was extremely important, as are the Finns of Finland, that the taxi is included in this legislation, because if it is not included in it, it puts the taxi at risk of being able to participate in future transport services, in future transport chains and that the taxi is necessarily within the scope of the Kela services of the future. So if this objection of yours went through for some reason, it would compromise the financial position of the taxi, because the traffic curve is possible and others would drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u101	For Minister Berner, five minutes, and then we'll continue with this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u102	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for the work it has done under the Transport Services Act. This is a huge reform. We have discussed many times in this Chamber the reform of social services. However, there we have had a unanimous view across the Government—Opposition boundary that it is necessary to combine seamless service chains with the citizens, and thus enable people to get from A to B as simply as possible and with good services from A to B. At the same time, we aim to ensure that the quality of services is maintained and that equality is cost-effective. I am sure that we have a common approach and a common goal here. It is also extremely important, as the chairman of the committee has said here, that, when we make a seamless service chain, it includes all modes of transport and that it does not exclude individual modes of transport, especially when a service receives substantial funding from society, such as taxi transport. From this point of view, however, our objective is that, above all, we should enable combined transport, new forms of service innovation and that, here too, progress is constantly being made. It is also a question of this issue being raised earlier. For example, the report on the Local Logistics Entrepreneurship Project published in 2009 has indicated that rural services in particular should be secured at affordable prices. The report decided to support combined transport on an entrepreneurial basis, and on the legislative side, the report highlighted the removal of standards and structural barriers, the modernisation of practices and the dissemination of good practice. The working group noted that the legislation that should be examined are the Taxi Transport Act, the Freight Transport Act, the Public Transport Act and various vehicle regulations as well as the Road Traffic Act. In addition, road safety issues should be taken into account both at transport and at staging points. All of this is now being done to a significant extent. At the same time, efforts will also be made to ensure that better and more diverse services can be made for rural areas, for example, by combining the transport of different entities, such as food trade, online commerce, municipalities, different authorities and postal services more efficiently. At the same time, the costs of local transport can be significantly reduced and transport kept affordable. Another key element, except that combined transport can be produced, is that this law proposes to open up essential information on mobility services. Information plays a crucial role in transport. It is essential that information and information systems, including ticket and payment systems, are interoperable and are secured in full. Thirdly, I would also like to point out that the absolute requirement of this law has been to prevent the shadow economy. It is very important that the shadow economy is monitored and combated, and digitalisation is an excellent tool for this. The grey economy is increasingly being combated by electronic services and means of payment. In the future, taxis will continue to require a taximeter or equivalent technology-neutral device when the price is based on the measurement of the distance or time. The law requires a new requirement for the intermediary service provider to monitor and declare the compensation paid. The development of taxi regulation has come to the fore in this debate, but it is also very important to remember that this is precisely the aim of ensuring that our services are maintained. We are trying to ensure that the provision of services is increasingly competitive with self-service and that we are genuinely able to ensure that we retain the opportunity to reduce emissions, to make better use of information, to be technology neutral, to enable innovation to develop, to support entrepreneurship, to create employment and thus to secure public transport throughout the country in a way that is compatible with all modes of transport. It is the spirit and goal of this law. And the fact that we need everyone involved is hopefully a good thing, and not that we exclude part of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u103	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u104	Madam President! Ten years ago, a traffic curve couldn't have been played. There were no tools back then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u107	Madam President! We have heard the reasons why this bill has been made, and this is necessary, at the mouth of the chairman of the committee and at the mouth of the minister. The world is changing and moving on. Our legislation has stalled and changes are needed. Representative Taavitsainen said in that debate that Finland has the best taxi system in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u110	Madam President! Mr Kopra, how would that amount of work now be increased by the current taxi companies and the livelihoods would be improved if we now abandon this regulation? Now it means that the number of taxis can triple, and at that point these existing entrepreneurs are in real distress. I would just like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, how do you justify this? I myself have spoken to a number of taxi drivers, none of whom have supported this proposal, that is, none. They are not afraid of competition but are rightly concerned about unfair competition and possible black markets. In the Left Alliance, we are very concerned about what the legislative proposal now before us means for the future of our taxi system, its accessibility, especially in remote areas, the predictability of pricing and the livelihood of taxi companies. How do you, the Minister, respond to the many concerned taxi entrepreneurs following this debate who are afraid for the continuation of their own livelihood? What are the concrete means of preventing unfair competition and the creation of a grey economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u111	Madam President! It is a general economic fact that when competition is liberalised, it affects prices, it affects quality, it affects availability. It is reasonable to assume that the dynamics of business in the taxi and transport services sector will change when it is liberalised and possibly even cheaper. This same phenomenon has been seen in rail transport, this same phenomenon has been seen in bus and coach transport. I predict that it will also be seen in taxis and other transports, and I predict that well-managed entrepreneurs will do well. There will be more jobs, the need for people to move more and more, and so will the need for goods. This proposal also concerns freight transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u112	Mr President! Yes, you, President Jalonen, have stated in this magazine of the Taxi Federation in 2015 that the best taxi system in the world should not be broken. Now you, as a representative of the Finnish People's Party, tell us that this government proposal does not satisfy you, but the Centre Party has pressured you to accept it. Then you say the Taxi League is behind this. Today we received an open letter from taxi associations in the capital region to the representatives of the people, a great appeal that this government proposal should not be accepted. Last Friday, 200 taxis drove around the Parliament House in a demonstration and protested against this proposal. Two days for the municipal elections — you said that the centre has been putting pressure on you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u113	Madam President! The Central Party has not put any pressure on any parliamentary groups in this area of traffic arch. This is a joint proposal by the whole government, and the Minister has made a decisive contribution to this. I can say that, once the Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with this matter, there has been a great deal of discussion and almost unanimous agreement there. Where there has been disagreement, it is the fact that the SDP has wanted to separate taxis, the taxi issue completely out of this traffic arch business. In my opinion, it is good that all modes of transport are involved in this traffic cycle or, in fact, in the law on transport services. How, then, would you like to develop the taxi sector, the taxi sector, when you want it completely out of this traffic cycle or the law on transport services? In my opinion, it is good that all modes of transport are involved in these services. In this case, it is in this law that the customer is at the heart of the matter, when so far the development has been very system-oriented. Now let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u114	Mr President! It would be good if the members of the government party here also read this objection we have lodged when there are allegations that we would like to leave out this taxi altogether or we would not want to develop it. It says here that the proposed total exemption from the market without convincing instruments is not the best way to renew the provision of taxi services. We do not see that we are opposed to the development of taxis, but we cannot, in this form, accept what the government is now proposing in the traffic cycle. There has been an exceptionally wide-ranging debate in the committee and also those entries in the explanatory notes there. And that is precisely why we have protested because you have written the concerns and hopes for control, market effects and the fight against the shadow economy that have been brought to bear in the explanatory statements. This is precisely why we do not want such legislation, because these influences and controls are carried out in articles, not in explanatory notes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u115	Mr President! This talk of full liberalisation from the point of view of the Social Democrats is, of course, this so-called creative use of truth. As has already been said here, it will not be completely freed at all, which leaves us with this authorisation and the timeliness of authorisations and many other things that have been achieved in comparison with the original proposal. But I agree with Mrs Torniainen that this objection from the SDP is quite unambitious. I think it is a little of that kind of non-policy. That when the taxi industry was completely separated from this bill, what do you think should be done with taxis? What should be done to ensure that there are hundreds of taxi licences in the country, which no one is applying for, that there are in practice drivers in traffic who do not have genuine, adequate local knowledge and for whom there is a suspicion that they will not be properly paid. What should we do with the taxi system if it is not renewed? Is it good as I just mentioned?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u116	Mr President! It has been a pleasure for me to talk to taxi entrepreneurs in the Lahti region, and there is no praise for this performance. On the contrary, as has been said in this debate, there has been more feedback that taxi companies are concerned about whether the government party’s buttons will stick to the vests, but, as was heard from Mr Jalonen, the jacket has not kept on. Congressman Vart here complimented this performance. There are undoubtedly some good things in this proposal, as has been pointed out to this digitalisation, but now we have to look at Finland as a whole. We understand Mr Vartia, who is here in the capital region, in this hipster bubble in Helsinki, to put it beautifully. Here technology certainly works and serves the customer, but how about the whole of Finland? And one thing the Minister referred to: Support entrepreneurship, yes, but support a Finnish honest entrepreneur and not free him from competition, a competition where dishonest people can survive, but a Finnish honest entrepreneur does not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u117	Mr President! If we think of a sparsely populated area, people have the best chance of getting a ride when there is enough supply. It means that the more people have the right to drive a taxi, the more people there are those who can then pick up. And now that we have these apps, there's the person who needs that ride, can press the button and say that I need a ride, and will probably tell you in advance where to go. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u118	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this proposal and transport regulation needs reform when the world changes. However, I am very concerned about the abolition of maximum price regulation for taxis. The abolition of regulation leaves the inhabitants of peripheral regions in particular in a difficult position when a taxi can charge almost anything for a single ride and a citizen cannot always vote on his feet because of a lack of supply. I am particularly concerned about the position of the elderly, because monitoring Trafi's overall price level is not enough to prevent robbery pricing in individual cases. The elderly do not know how to use these applications, and they do not always understand the value of money. But today, Mr President, a taxi cannot refuse to pick up a customer except for safety reasons. In the new paragraphs, this rule does not exist. Drivers may therefore refuse to take a customer in the future, even if their face does not like it. Can this really be like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u119	Madam President! It is indeed a great miracle that in all matters the opposition sees big bogeymans when it comes to reforming the world. What Mr Sarkkinen mentioned about the taxis in rural areas is something I am very surprised about. The profession that works there, taxi entrepreneurs, they are, today, extremely good, brilliant people who are service-minded, professional, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u120	Madam President! Now I have to ask my neighbor, Mrs Hoskonen, that when the station obligation goes away, what will keep those taxis there in Ilomants, because it is much more profitable to go and pick up those rides from Joensuu and leave that Ilomantsi empty. In other words, even though there are many good elements in this proposal — combined travels, increased competition and possibly reduced prices — many of these wishes relate specifically to Congestion Finland, large cities. But when we go there to Ilomantsi and go to the area of Eastern Finland that we both know well with Mr Hoskonen, it is hard to see that there is no one on duty anywhere in that area on weekday nights, because there is no place to stay and there is no money for those municipalities to pay that someone still has a taxi post there. So let's go get those customers where they are - they go to Kuopio, they go to Joensuu. Simultaneous abolition of quantitative and maximum price regulation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u121	Madam President! Thank you, Congressman. For Essayah, a good question and a warm sympathy for the people of Joymantsi. As we have heard before, the main destination for taximen and taxi drivers will remain, so taxis will certainly be available there. Now this system is being made more flexible — if there were such problems in the past, and I know that taxis in peripheral areas have had difficulties — and yet, to date, taxis have been doing an excellent job and are now being made more flexible and given the opportunity to serve in different jobs, there is no longer the same pattern. The world has changed enormously over the last 20 years, and I would like you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to take note of this. We can no longer live on the forest side of that birdhouse that was 20 years ago. Digitalization has come to that side with a bang through, and we just can't help it. Is it better that we accept this change or that we start fighting it and retreat into a world that no longer exists?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u122	Madam President! First of all, I am delighted that Finland is making the most progressive transport legislation in the world. Of course, this gap between progress and regression in this Chamber is almost palpable — when it is said that there is often concern about the amount of work and the lack of work and how to get more work to Finland. This legislation will also have an impact on the question that, when we change the thinking that Mr Vartia referred to here in fact, there will also be new opportunities that we can use. These entrepreneurs can carry both people, goods and various services in the sparsely populated remote areas as well as in the more densely populated urban centres, this will certainly bring much more good than anyone can imagine. I think it is wonderful and extremely important that this package of laws should:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u124	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this transport car law project, and it is easy to agree with these objectives, but my own concern is about what happens to taxi transport in remote areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u125	Mr President! Thank you for the fact that there are still concerns about rural services, but I, as a rural citizen, as a rural citizen of the most remote rural area, say thank you for this proposal, thank you for the forthcoming postal package and others, for this package of transport blocks. These expand opportunities for multi-economic entrepreneurship in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u126	Mr President! If you don't believe the opposition, believe the industry. In other words, we have received mail and communications that taxi companies and drivers have met with this report from the Committee on Transport and continue to believe that when entry into the sector is virtually not regulated and pricing is liberalised and taxis are no longer required for taxis, the result is the growth of the grey economy and customers who have been conned, and it is also clear that the availability of taxis will collapse outside the cities when the demand for on-call services and the location of cars is effectively abandoned. They also continue by saying that the new legislation now to be decided would lead to a system in Finland that is familiar with its problems in Stockholm and Tallinn. Is this what we really want? Then there has been talk here that, as the Minister said, entrepreneurship is being supported. Representative Koskesta almost fantastic, wonderful bill brings work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u129	Mr President! Earlier, the question was asked whether there has been any reading of the protests of the demares. Yes, it is, and I am a little concerned that you have not necessarily had the full understanding of what your objection would lead to. When Mr Kymäläinen brought in an example that a ride is paid with carrots, it is precisely your objection that would make the situation that these carrots would require a taxi permit, so this kind of normal social interaction on the basis of your objection would not be possible. Second point: With the mention of this best taxi in Finland, which is still good, I think this should have been done around it in the early stages, because now this is an enabling law and if now this enabling law is taken out
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u130	Madam President! This debate in this Chamber with regard to the members of the Government Party is a very moving 'hope, hope' section, but these concerns and wishes have not been taken into account in the articles themselves. Following this reform of yours, when chaos arises in the taxis, do you say that this was known and therefore accurately recorded in the explanatory statements — and, as Mr Jalonen said in his presentation, then the law can be changed, that it is important that this be followed up, then does it say that ‘yes, we hoped that chaos would not arise because it was recorded?’
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u131	Madam President! Yes, the Finnish taxi is concerned about its own future, and I think it is quite right. These changes to the bill are of course a threat to the present system, but when the world changes, the Finnish taxi wants to be involved in the change and has therefore started to express its own wishes for this bill. I am very surprised here by the ignorance of a member of the committee and of the opposition and of the representatives of the government parties on this issue. For example, it is a matter of this kind that some carrots pay for a ride and it requires a licence, and I consider it a really inappropriate comparison of how a good Finnish taxi system is assessed here in the hall. The financing of taxi transport has been addressed here, among other things: Society supports Finnish taxis with EUR 4008 during the procurement phase. All the rest of the money keeps the taxi itself running, driving, so that the so-called Kela money comes from society, it does not come free for a Finnish taxi. I would hope that such gross mistakes will not be presented here so that we do not have to put these things right all night.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u132	Mr President! As a taxi driver, Mrs Pakkanen must know that the current legislation does not require a permit for a taxi when carrots are issued, it is quite like that. But this protest by the demars demands it. It is a situation in which, through legislation, it is possible to operate others and then a taxi is taken from them separately. Then the neighboring aid in which carrots are given in return will result in it requiring a taxi permit, because it is a payment and the purpose of earning has been taken away. It does this, although the carrot has not, of course, been mentioned there on the list of exceptions. And this suspicion that it may be impossible for a taxi to reach the travel chains and that it may not be possible to get to Kela rides has been confirmed by the LVM.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u133	Mr President! I have to say that, as a Georgian, I too share the view of Mr Pori Jalonen that the best taxi system in the world should not be broken, and I understand the disappointment that this government, however, went this far. I think it is important to remember when people talk about digitality that this current system is not excluded from the digital system. It is inconceivable to listen to the idea that only another system can offer fully digital opportunities. We can't have such simple thinking in a house like this, can we? I have to say that if the only alternative to developing taxi traffic was that this marketing was the solution, all will be released, then I do not think that such a logic will achieve a very good result. In this respect, I am very disappointed that even the taximeter is not to be kept in the essentials so that the grey economy can certainly be combated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u134	Madam President! Training and professionalism are necessary in every profession, and the Finnish taxi has been safe so far and can be trusted under all circumstances. I hope it will continue to be so. However, this concern about transport services in remote areas is all right, because in many places public transport no longer works and taxis are actually the only way to get some kind of transport and even in the event of need even at night. Is it, Minister, that we shall, however, follow — although the municipalities have the right and perhaps even some obligation to ensure that this transport activity is then played at different times of the day — and can we be sure in this Chamber and can the Minister promise that if these unreasonable problems occur in some part of Finland, they will be returned to them either by the Parliament or by the authorities? This must be taken care of, and there must be no confusion about the fact that some part of Finland is completely excluded from transport services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u135	Minister Berner, do you have three minutes for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u136	Madam Speaker! Transport is the second largest single cost for households. In total, households will cost approximately EUR 19 billion to cover transport costs. So we are talking about a significant entity that has a genuine impact. In addition to this, it is the task of this package of laws to ensure that we leave the customer ahead, the services above, so that everyone has access to reasonable, cost-effective services. A lot has been said about the grey economy. The reform will not contribute to the informal economy, and taxi operations will remain under the control of the authorities. Nor do we in this legislation interfere with tax or labour law, but these obligations remain in force. Digitalisation contributes to the eradication of the grey economy. It will enable all intermediaries to be subject to obligations to provide information to the authorities on the payments made through them. The customer responsibility remains valid. And it will continue to require a taximeter or a device of equivalent reliability, equivalent to data protection. [Department :Actually! ] In addition to this, I would like to draw your attention to the statement made by the Tax Administration to the Committee on Tax Administration that the tax meter provides meter data which the Tax Administration can only compare with the information supplied to it. It does not indicate whether the distance travelled and the information produced by the meter match each other. According to the Tax Administration, we should move towards the Swedish model, which would provide more extensive and coherent comparison data. Here, too, it is precisely to promote the creation of comparative data and the development of a model for improving the transparency of taxis and also the functioning of the market. It is also clear that if we do nothing, then the transport services in rural areas will continue to fade. It is also very important that new business and new entrepreneurship are created here. All in all, it is not a question of creating an opportunity for robbery pricing, but of taxi services and all transport services being the same as any other service: the price and the basis for its determination must be announced in advance. New digital services have already increased and will enable customers to find out more about the price and also compare different prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u137	We're going to open the V button and take this one little debut round here. — Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u138	Mr President! Now I am going to take a slightly different speech as Chairman of the Memory Federation. Because I am very concerned about the elderly, the people with memory problems and the other clients of taxis who need a lot of help. They find it very difficult to compare the quality or price of services. Giving up training for drivers is a very bad thing for them. Such a simple driver test does not give you the ability to help customers who need help. In other words, the driver's course should by no means be abandoned. For many social and health services customers, customers of disability services and elderly people, skilled drivers are a safety factor. In my opinion, the holder of a licence is not sufficient to ensure the safe assistance and interaction skills of the driver. These capabilities should continue to be ensured through adequate quality training. So I'm worried about what happens to the elderly and the customers who need a lot of help in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u139	Mr President! It is inconceivable that the Social Democrats and the Left are now planning this kind of chaos and wild Westernism for the taxi industry. Taxis are involved in the traffic cycle, in the law on transport services, which you yourself support, and that means that all freight and passenger transport is between one law and one deck. For example, you do not play the wreckage of the whole law, which would then be on top of this traffic curve. I too am concerned and the committee has also taken account of the reliability of taxis. We will continue to want taxi driving to be subject to a licence, a licence and the criteria that we have imposed on the vehicle. Drivers or offenders must have no criminal background, have good solvency and have a place of business in Finland. There's been a lot of listing of qualifications. This ain't no wild west for cabs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u140	Mr President! I was in contact with the taxi operator in the area and the taxi association’s betman, and I asked him how they looked at this situation. First of all, with regard to the removal of the obligation to place on the ground, he was of the opinion that the level of service in rural areas would be reduced by the absence of an obligation for an entrepreneur to operate on a taxi post. The area of activity can be reported between several cities of Utsjoki and Helsinki and can be located where they are transported by taxis. It will be easier to obtain a taxi licence, as will payment traffic and billing. It makes it possible to trade in cash and to risk the shadow economy. The current receipts and the maintenance of this current good system, where the information goes directly to the tax authority, he believes will be destroyed. Then there is the question to the Minister, when we have talked about these taxis and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u141	Mr President! You have to evaluate some of the present systems first when you start evaluating the future. At least I myself have used a lot of taxi services, and they are of high quality in Finland, and I think that this reliability, safety and, above all, awareness of what this ride is costing and does not need to compromise or worry about it are quite high values and should also be given value. Another thing that I would pay attention to as a customer is this relatively high quality of cars in Finland, that these taxi cars are good. We will now see to it that if this is renewed — and this will happen — this quality will not suffer in any way. Even today, in Helsinki, you sometimes have to wonder what course the taxi driver has taken if the steering from the back seat to the left does not work. This, too, must be said honestly, that we cannot go into such a future where professionalism is trampled and equipment is trampled and everything, and some money must be left to the driver, and the taxation of transport is high.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u142	Mr President! As many speakers have pointed out, I feel that in this sort of confrontation "stadi versus lande" wants to be realized. There are a lot of things here where you think that in growth centres and in the capital region this will certainly be improved and this will certainly be moving forward in many ways, but then there is the countryside and the sparsely populated area and the problem that will be faced there. I would have liked to ask the Minister that, now that both this regulation and this maximum price are in place, both of them wanted to be dismantled, it would have been possible to think that either one of these would have been retained in order to make it more controlled in some way. I would like to hear a few arguments about why this could not be thought of. Also, when this requirement for a place of employment remains to be seen by the municipalities, and when we know that there is hardly any money there, what are we going to do to prevent taxis from escaping to those growth centres alone?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u143	Mr President! After all, this is a considerable improvement as to where this car started, especially with regard to this taxi law. This is also proven by the fact that: The Taxi Federation itself has accepted this proposal and felt that this is sufficient. Of course, there are a lot of challenges here. Personally, I believe that we need to dismantle the different monopolies, that there is really no one in this society who can have one kind of monopolies. But how these dismantlings are done is a legitimate question for the opposition, and I agree with that. I myself am concerned about what Mr Eestilä mentioned as to whether taxis will be reliable in the future and whether there will also be quality means of transport, so that not just any tractor will come to pick up from the airport when coming from the plane. In that sense, I would have asked the Minister how to ensure the quality and reliability of taxis in the future, because I am sure that the next question will be whether taxi drivers will have this tax advantage in the future, that they will be able to buy new taxis. ♪ And the gray economy ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u144	Let us stick to this one-minute response time so that as many Members as possible can speak out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u145	Mr President! Last year, the government of the country, led by Minister Soin, abolished national cabotage regulations in Finland, even though we should have fought for them on behalf of our own hauliers. Well, then, in addition to taxis, this bill now contains a very harmful matter for transport companies, namely no longer requiring a licence for cars weighing less than 3.5 tonnes. Now it's been two grand. So this means that a lot of vans will enter the professional transport market and there will be two markets: those who carry goods by lorries for which all taxes, traffic permits, all proper care, and then these less than 3.5 tonnes for which nothing is required.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u146	Mr President! A week and a half ago I was speaking at the 60th anniversary of the Häme taxi association as a party speaker. There were also taximen from the Lahti region, and they understood that this is not the end of the world, but there is certainly concern about how the grey economy is being rejected and about the choice of the customer, the kind of taxi you want. I explained exactly how this report was going and, of course, they were pleased that there should be a taximeter or a similar device. The obligation to issue a receipt is based on another law. Knownness is important in taxis, many even want to brand their own reliable taxi now. And indeed the police, Customs, the Border Guard and, above all, Trafi will also be watching, and Trafi will be monitoring price developments. So we're going to get into it if there's going to be a robbery like this. In the countryside, I think, there are different combinations of rides: we want to fill the cars. This is going to be the future development anyway, and that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u147	Mr President! This is a major reform, and nothing is, of course, entirely self-evident and predictable. That is why the committee has restricted this proposal, made significant limitations, three statements to constrain and control the effects of the reform and leave grounds to intervene if necessary. I would return to this station obligation when so many spoke of it. The situation is that the taxi licence is subject to an obligation to be on call at the station. Now that the cab driver's there at night, who's gonna pay for this now? It's the cab driver himself — for being there, for a ride or not. Nobody's gonna pay for it, except when that ride comes. Is this right? Then, if this obligation is now lifted, the municipality or the transport organisation authority will get its emergency services there. It is a province or a municipality that arranges it by agreeing on this emergency service in such a way that there is a taxi operator who offers it a ride in the area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u148	Mr President! When we are probably going to this last stage of the debatation cycle, we now have to read this section of our objection when there is a little argument here that we want to somehow concrete out taxis. This is a straightforward quote: 'The abolition of taxi traffic from the bill does not mean that we are opposed to the development of taxi traffic or that we are calling for the current system to be shackled. This means that we do not believe that a complete exemption from the market has now been proposed without convincing means of control is the best way of reforming the provision of taxi services. Taxi services must be developed towards better digital services, bearing in mind technological development and the development already carried out independently by the industry. Changes in the current way of organising must be implemented in a controlled manner in order to minimise the negative effects of these changes." — the negative changes which this government proposal is bound to bring, because if this government proposal were in any way completely unproblematic, this would hardly have been in our committee for the many months it was there,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u149	Mr President! I am absolutely convinced that the opposition is also concerned about this situation, and I am absolutely convinced that even the demars have wanted good for taxi traffic. But in practice, as I have said, your objection to this law in practice threatens the taxi’s entry into the chains and the Kela rides — but I have already said so many times. Here came this concept of professional transport, which was raised by Mr Taavitsainen: all vehicles that are in taxis or vans must be registered for professional transport. So this claim that nothing is required is completely empty. And if not everyone has noticed it, the committee also calls for cabotage legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u150	Mr President! Here Mr Kopra well justified this on-call obligation. That is an obligation when there is a need-based authorisation regulation and prices are limited. That is, in principle, what it is based on, and that is why it is a good thing. But now that it is changed, then, of course, the on-call obligation must also be waived, because you cannot oblige people who have no rights. This is how the current regulation works. The Minister then referred to this information from the Tax Administration that the tax meter does not indicate whether the distance travelled and the price produced by the meter corresponds to each other. Unfortunately, the tax administration has the wrong information on this, which I have already mentioned in the committee: yes, the tax meter says. It is a sealed meter, so it tells exactly the exact miles and revenues driven, and the Tax Administration is able to compare them. They are products sealed by the survey office, and the tax authority must be able to trust them. There's no such problem. Regrettably, there's a lot of this gray information going around.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u151	Mr President! I'm sure we'll all remember if the slogan of the Taxi Federation marketing campaign was in its day: "I'm glad there's a taxi." It will continue to be a good question if we are able to answer this question, in which we can put a question mark. Fortunately there is a taxi — or luckily there was a taxi at a time when we could put our children, the elderly in a taxi with confidence and be sure that at the other end you will be satisfied with the customer’s safe mind after receiving the service? But this station obligation is one of the key failings in this proposal. It comes out of the professional drivers themselves. When the availability of the service is weakened, there will be a moment when there will also be a big fall in demand. When there's a dip in demand, where's the cab, fortunately, it's a taxi? It is there far from the city pole waiting for those customers who are sure
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u152	Mr President! It would be interesting to come back to the time when telecommunications networks were once opened up to the market and competition, the threats it has seen. But if it had not been done, we would never have had Nokia, we would not have built such prosperity. In transport, we are talking about much larger sums. We are the first in the world to make such a change. This means that services will be created here that will spread to the rest of the world. When we talk about taxis, I understand the trouble of a taxi driver when that environment changes. It's scary. But it is not our primary task in Parliament to consider what will happen to the taxi operator. We need to think about what will happen to consumers. For consumers, the more supply there is, the more competition there is, the market economy has worked in all other areas of society. There's no reason why it doesn't work for taxis too. It improves service, it increases availability, it weighs prices down. Let us ensure that these conditions are met, ensure that the information is passed, that taxes are paid, and that there is no abuse. But for these threats, what is being presented here, it's hard to see.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u153	Mr President! Since this is a major change to the current system, there is also a great deal of concern and uncertainty on the subject and understandably. Now, of course, it is in the taxi sector and in the taxi debate that this is concrete. It is particularly important to monitor and ensure that the customer's position, the regional availability of services and the conditions of competition in the market are balanced and that the objectives of the emergence of new transport services are met, which is what this law seeks. It should be followed. What has been said in this debate about this place of employment is that this government proposal is based on the fact that, after that time, it is the operators in the taxi sector who have to indicate their place of employment and their on-call time, i.e. their main area of activity and service time. As far as these prices are concerned, if prices run away, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency (Trafi) may issue, if necessary, an order for taxi services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u154	Mr President! Speaking of these threats, it is good that this issue of cabotage was raised. That was a very unfortunate thing when, at the time, the pressure of the European Court of Justice was forced to give in to these cabotage regulations being amended, and then the Social Democrats were very afraid that this would be the end of the world in the transport sector. Now that those regulations have been in force for some time, I have not seen any newspaper headlines that it was the end of the world. If anyone's seen one of those headlines, fix it. But this car is a wide-ranging package, and it is a little unfortunate that the debate focuses solely on this taxi issue. It must be borne in mind that taxi entrepreneurs were consulted during the committee hearing but, overall, 70 different experts were consulted on this broad set of laws. My concerns about this law in the referral debate have been very well taken into account in the committee's report. If the text of the report had nothing to do with it, then why should it now be written here in Parliament? Why would our time be spent on it? They reflect the will of the legislator, and that will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u155	Mr President! I would now appeal to you, Members of Parliament, to read an open letter from the taxi associations in the capital region, which has come to you all today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u156	Mr President! Probably in the world, the perfect show hasn't been done since someone invented the rubber wheel. But, Mr President, I ask the Minister, now that he is here with dignity: many transport users, mainly public transport users, have regretted it in practice when the timetables for buses and buses are no longer available for all. Is there a cure for this? Many have also asked me where they can find, for example when going to Ilomants, Joensuu, bus timetables. Or if you want to go from the province of North Karelia to Kuopio, it will require extremely careful detective work to find its schedule. Is there a cure for this? I think it would be good if these timetables were brought together, because that would improve the possibility for this public transport to provide its services when people know when buses are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u157	Mr President! Indeed, it has also been mentioned here in the debate that this package involves much more than taxis. Of course, the full liberalisation of taxi transport is one of the most important aspects of this package, and that is why I am sure it deserves to be discussed in this Chamber. With regard to tractors, for example, we have taken a position in our protest when it comes to introducing a limit on the licence requirement for tractors up to 60 km/h. This will have a major impact on road safety, among other things, because it is today in Finland when it is seen that, for example, young people, 16-year-olds gather in the yard of libraries or shops with their parents' tractors. And when these are driven 60 kilometers an hour ago in municipal authorities, it is important, among other things, in terms of road safety. It's sad that the government hears taxi entrepreneurs in a different way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u158	Mr Maijala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u159	Mr President! It's so easy to say no. It's easy to get sympathy and say, "No, I don't, I don't." But then, when we have made this report, the fact that when taxi drivers and many of you from the opposition have asked what it says in the report, it is a surprise, a surprise: very few people are actually familiar with what it says here, it is simply said that there is no need to change, there is no need to do this. For example, a great many of the issues raised today by the representatives of the opposition read here in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u160	All right, then, Minister Berner, five minutes. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u161	Mr President! Thank you for these many points of view, and thank you also for this debate. This whole package of laws is a huge change and deserves to be taken into account in the context of the debate, aspects, opponation and also in the context of the statements which the committee has brought to this end, precisely from the point of view of how the market is developing. However, it is the truth that the transport market is undergoing a huge transformation, and it is also the fact that new, alternative services are being created. It is certainly also clear that it is better for them to have legislation than for them to develop independently in their own way. At the same time, we face challenges in maintaining rural services. We have genuine concerns about how services will be renewed in the future, how information can be used specifically for the benefit of the customer and the consumer, and how we will also take care of and respond together as a Parliament to the fact that taxpayers' money will be spent wisely and prudently and that it will be possible to create coherent chains, integrated services, uniform opportunities on an equal footing, with equal opportunities throughout the country. For rural areas, this reform is absolutely necessary. Only by combining transport, enabling comprehensive service chains will we be able to ensure that taxi services continue to be provided in rural areas. We do not have all the quotas in rural areas today, we have free quotas there too. We do not now have an obligation to be on call everywhere in remote areas. Even now we don't have taxis in the country on a pole. Even in rural areas, an average of 80 percent of the income from taxis comes from services paid by society. We want this reform to create a new future for taxis. We want to ensure that services develop. We want to ensure that we continue to have the best taxi system in the world. But then there must also be the courage to give entrepreneurship space, to give new services space and also to give the person who wants and is able to create new innovations, new kinds of services for customers the opportunity to do so. Our taxi fleet is on average at a 35 % utilisation rate. We want to reduce emissions from transport in society. We want to ensure that we have better and more efficient use of vehicles. It must also be authorised, and space must also be given. Of the kilometer turnover in the transport market, taxis account for 1.4 per cent. We are talking about the reform of the entire transport market. We are also talking about the possibility of creating call-based services for society, the possibility of modernising public transport services. And our objective is to achieve emission reductions of 1 million tonnes with this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u164	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u165	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The law on transport services, more familiarly known as Code 1, has finally been pushed out of the Committee on Transport and Communications, as we may have already seen in the debate. We have heard some 70 experts in committee face-to-face and we have received several dozen statements in writing. As part of the Act on Transport Services, the objective of promoting digitalisation must be supported. Opening up information interfaces to create new transport services and travel chains is to be welcomed and supports the development of digitalisation. It must be possible to avoid duplication, and the introduction of new service models and, for example, the more efficient use of transport equipment is also an important means of achieving transport emissions targets. But that is where the good legislation will remain, and that is what has been discussed in this Chamber for the most part today, because the big thing about this reform is that the government parties are prepared to scrap the best taxi system in the world with this package of laws — I repeat, I dare say: the best taxi system in the world. You are prepared to give up the regulation of the price and quantity of taxis. Even at the time of the last parliamentary elections, 136 Members of Parliament considered the regulation to be good. If we look at the current situation: Taxi is the last national mode of transport available throughout Finland at reasonable prices at all times of the year and day. Taxi services have not disappeared from rural areas and sparsely populated areas like other modes of transport. The current regulation guarantees the availability, reliability, safety and reasonable pricing of services, taking into account the cost level of the sector. The government parties are now ready to give this up. In the future, according to the Government's policies, the obligation to place places of employment is also about to disappear. When the station no longer exists, the entrepreneur is free to act as he sees fit, i.e. in practice to focus on good shops, and the tributaries will be left without a car. This is how it's gonna be. The removal of the duty to on-call, on the other hand, means that entrepreneurs only work in profitable times. More quiet times, as well as difficult times for doing work, are easily missed out on adequate provision. In the future, car-specific permits are no longer required. When you can operate freely by more cars with one permit and you do not need one in the car, the chances of monitoring are significantly reduced. For the gray economy, the government is giving a full tray here. Also, the tax meter will no longer be required by government parties. If you think about it at all, you understand that there may be more than one mobile phone in the car and several different charging applications, all with different prices. Who then thinks that the service provider would declare all his income to the tax authority? In future, taxi drivers will no longer be required to take a vocational course. It's just a test. In this respect, the quality of taxi services for special groups will be of particular concern in the future. Safe equipment and safe transport are particularly important for them. In addition to taxis, I do not really want to raise anything more than the two proposals within the traffic cycle, which are going to mess up the transport market and take bread away from some hauliers. One of these is the fact that the government's proposal is abolishing the authorisation of vans. The second is that a freight licence would not be required for tractors with a maximum permitted speed of 60 km/h in the case of goods transport within Finland. Each of us can wonder what these two proposals mean not only for the transport market but also for road safety and the environment. Mr President! In general, there are two concerns about this lengthy procedure in committee. The first is that when the government was not prepared to change its articles, the text of the law is full of interpretative instructions for a better conscience. The second, but not least, is that the citizens have learned in different ways that the role of the substance committee as a committee of experts was not appreciated, but that the ministry decided to keep the Sabbath, even if there was a need for changes after the expert hearings. Is that what the government's concept of democracy is all the more so? We Social Democrats, together with the Left Alliance, tabled an objection to this government proposal in committee. That has already been made clear in this debate. In the case of taxis, we had no choice but to suggest that we should abstain from the current legislation, because we certainly do not want to exempt taxis from price and quantity regulation. In addition, we made changes to the section that the vans will continue to be subject to authorisation and that in the case of domestic transport within Finland, the maximum allowed speed without authorisation is 40 kilometres per hour for goods carried by tractor. Our objection also includes three statements. Now I see that time has passed, but, Mr President, just to this end: when the chairman of the committee said the words'monitoring' and 'change pressures' several times in this presentation of the report, and then there are, of course, those statements and there was a great deal of discussion on these matters also during this debate, I would like to say that I think that we should, as a general rule, do legislative work in this House, that we should not, at least as soon as the law comes to the first reading here in the Chamber, be concerned about so many things that we must then think about the position we have been thinking about today and make statements on monitoring and everything else. The statements themselves are good, but when they correct bad legislation in their way, then they are not justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u166	Mr President! "Dark night, sadelaise, towel feathers cleanse you. The weather is merciless, but we have to go. Again I am on the road, the heavens shall preserve me." This is what a professional driver wrote. Finnish heavy-duty transport entrepreneurs and taxi entrepreneurs weigh a long day. If they're not behind the wheel themselves, they'll be on call by the phone if there's a call that the car in the car is broken down or there's been an accident. Even on the phone, with their iron craftsmanship, they will be able to determine which hose has caused the fault that time. I greatly appreciate their resilience to persistence and hunger, heat, coldness, darkness and loneliness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u171	Mr President! The transport sector is indeed living in a time of great upheaval. The law now under discussion on transport services, that is to say, from an old one, is just one part of this whole. The draft law is wide-ranging and it is not possible to go through it in detail in this speech, so I would like to raise a few key points. The draft law was improved during the work of the committee, particularly with regard to supervision. It was the only sensible solution to reinstate police, Customs and Border Guard control tasks. It was also a good decision to change the name. Unfortunately, we did not reach a unanimous conclusion in committee, but there were two major shortcomings in the law. The first concerns the black economy of freight transport and the second concerns the regulation of taxis. Above all, the fight against the shadow economy was not sufficiently addressed in this law. We in the Left Alliance want to protect domestic work and honest entrepreneurs. The limits of a freight licence should not be raised, but should be at 2000 kg for vans and 40 km/h for tractors. The goal of the Left Alliance is to prevent and eradicate the shadow economy and invest in Finnish competence and entrepreneurship. In the case of taxis, the changes made by the committee were mainly cosmetic. The real problem, i.e. the abolition of the maximum and location regulation, remained unchanged. I do understand the need for regulatory change and the objectives of creating new types of flexible services, but the price of these changes is too high, especially in sparsely populated areas, both figuratively and concretely. In fact, taxi prices would increase where there is not so much demand and the availability of taxis would be reduced in general. Furthermore, there would be no protection against individual overcrowding of the price of rides, which would put the position of older people at risk in particular. In the cities, the situation would be different. Here, a large supply will ensure that prices are kept under control. At the same time, though, the taxi driver may no longer get along with the work he does. Last Friday we heard a loud protest from taxi entrepreneurs against this law. We have also received continuous messages from taxi drivers both by e-mail and as customers. I would therefore like to thank all those who have sent the message, because it is very important and valuable for us decision-makers to hear the views of the various parties. The most sensible thing at this stage is to exclude the articles on the regulation of taxis from the law on transport services and to plan them better and taking into account the risks. Mr President! The Left Alliance stresses that we have not proposed to reject the entire law. The regulation of transport needs to be reformed, and it is great that we are now responding to the needs of the future with regard to the digitalisation of transport and the opening up of traffic information. Different new transport services are important in order to change our transport habits and to achieve the emission reduction targets set for the transport sector. New transport services also create new jobs. Over the next 15 years, we will see a huge change in the transport sector. We cannot imagine how we will move in 2030, let alone after that. That is why we must look with an open mind to the future and create space for new ideas. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind what is valuable: high-quality and smooth services covering the whole country, maintenance of transport routes, fair rules of play on the market, reliability of tax and control, reduction of emissions and safety in transport. Mr President! We would have liked a sustainable and complete package of legislation on transport services, including for taxis. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and therefore the Left Alliance shares the objection of the Social Democrats, in which taxi legislation is proposed to be separated from the law now before us. You have to ask the government whose interest it is to destroy a Finnish, one of the most reliable, best and most functional taxi systems in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u172	Mr President! In recent decades, the rapid development of information and communication technologies has been marked by no signs of slowing down. On the contrary, it is accelerating. Digitalisation so far is only a foretaste of the challenges that Finland will have to be able to face in the coming years. Transport is one of the sectors radically changed by digitalisation, and technological change alone is drastic. The first robot ships sail in Finnish waters in the 20th century. The first robot cars will drive Finland's roads in the next parliamentary term. The first drone messengers are already transporting shopping on the streets of Tallinn. But technology is just a tool for digitalisation. Digitalisation does not mean drone transmitters, for example, but new business models and value chains that they enable. A good benchmark is provided by the railway. When the steam power of the locomotives replaced the muscle power of the horses, a completely new kind of Finland was born. The impact of the railway on the urban structure and the economy was dramatic, but it lasted for decades. Now everything is happening faster, much faster. We only have years to adapt. In order for Finland to be a pioneer in developing and exporting new transport services, Finnish transport legislation must be enabling and neutral. It is impossible to encapsulate any mode of transport outside the industry. It would have been as sensible as tying a permit for the use of horsepower a hundred years ago. The debate on this proposal has focused on reducing the regulatory burden on taxi services, but this is a much more comprehensive change covering all transport sectors. [Department :Actually! ] The Committee on Transport and Communications therefore carried out thorough work, consulted a large number of experts and drew attention to a number of pain spots. Of course, the grip could have been stricter, but too strict regulation can prevent not only risks but also innovations. Restrictions on competition will inevitably also limit the development of services. However, the aim of the Government's proposal, the objective to be supported, is precisely to enable the emergence of new business models based on the needs of customers in the passenger and freight transport markets. Mr President! The problem with such a wide-ranging package of laws is that it is inevitable that there will also be details that are more difficult to support. For example, concern about the shadow economy is justified, but I believe that much attention has been paid to it in the committee's report and statements. In addition, the committee made changes to the proposal which at least help to combat the shadow economy. That does not mean, of course, that the situation should not be monitored, as the committee calls for in its statement. The committee also authorised the police, Customs and Border Guard to continue monitoring compliance with the law. Indeed, the government's proposal could have been interpreted as meaning that no one would have monitored the availability of traffic services on the road. In any case, this law will be returned many more times. Such a major paradigm shift requires fine-tuning, and the accelerating change in the operating environment does not make it any easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u173	Mr Kymäläinen, and Mr Kymäläinen, after his intervention, will be suspended and this matter will be referred back to after all the other points of the sitting have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u174	Mr President! This is a bad day for many services considered by the Finnish citizen. At the same time as we can read about the end of public transport in many places in Finland, the government parties are implementing the liberalisation of taxi traffic, i.e. the shutdown. I regret to all Finns that the committee could not even correct these worst mistakes. Mr President! The committee's report is exceptionally broad and the committee has taken a position on the government's proposal, particularly in the explanatory statement. The committee has worked hard on this, and the representatives of the government parties deserve to be commended for this. There have been some actual changes, including the extension of the primary supervisory responsibility from Trafi to the police, Customs and the Border Guard, which is a good thing. All in all, however, I regret to say that the committee, by bringing its hopes for control, market effects and the fight against the shadow economy, has done a very poor piece of legislation based on the desire for interpretation. Our legislation is based on written paragraphs where the matter should be clearly stated. In the report, the committee is trying to save what can be saved with its explanatory statement. Unfortunately, this has been typical throughout the parliamentary term. For example, following the dismantling of national definitions of cabotage legislation, the Ministry of Transport and Communications set up a working group whose final summary was summarised as follows: "Regulatory regulation to combat the shadow economy should not entail disproportionate costs or burdens for businesses or citizens." During the work of the committee, the government parties were clearly in pain with a number of points of law, and the committee proposed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications a number of amendments, but they did not agree to make any changes at the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The extensive expert consultation highlighted a number of legal problems that have been included in our Social Democrats' protest. Mr President! As far as taxi transport is concerned, we and a large proportion of the experts consulted believe that the main threat to the liberalisation of taxi licences and pricing is the concentration of services on competitive markets in large urban centres where customers are sufficient. At the same time, there is also a risk that taxi companies will concentrate as large operators take off. In the smallest provincial centres, the government’s objectives to lower the price of publicly purchased transport may be reversed when only one or two companies are involved in the competitions. Individual citizens are unlikely to be in any equal position in the availability of taxi services. In less populated areas, taxis are no longer available at a reasonable price at night or at weekends, and so say those taxi drivers. You can all go out there and prove where this is going, even in the city. Go alone as a woman or a man to Stockholm Arlanda Airport after 10:00 p.m. to try to get a taxi to a hotel downtown Stockholm. There may be many orphans, not to mention a decent price. The aim of our Social Democrats' proposal is the current method of organising taxi services, which ensures the availability of entrepreneurial-based taxi services, including accessible services, throughout the country as a result of the obligation to drive and prevents the market from concentrating on the busiest regions and larger taxi companies. In the future, the maximum price set by the Regulation will prevent a wild pricing culture in the sector. Removing taxi traffic from the bill does not mean that we are opposed to the development of taxi transport. This means that we do not believe that the proposed complete liberalisation of the market without convincing instruments is the best way of reforming the provision of taxi services. Taxi services must be developed towards better digital services, bearing in mind technological developments and the development already carried out independently by the industry. Mr President! The reform of the law must ensure a level playing field for all operators in the transport sector. That is why we are presenting the requirement for a freight licence as a minimum limit of 2000 kg for vehicles or combinations of vehicles, as is the case with the current law. Even if vans do not compete fully with heavier truck fleets, the proposed change would bring a different competitive design between different types of vehicles. We propose to change the tractor permit requirement to speed up to 40 km/h in accordance with the EU regulation. Tractor equipment is mainly used for land transport, where transport is short in any case. At present, tractors account for about 40% of land transport under licence, measured by the number of vehicles. The impact cannot therefore be considered to be negligible on the transport market in the land transport sector, in particular taking into account the large differences in the number of technical inspection of equipment and the number of driver training required. The proposed amendment is likely to have a negative impact on road safety from the lower age limit for tractor fleets, the requirement for driving licences and due to the absence of an obligation to carry out a roadworthiness test even in the future testing law. Mr President! One of the main shortcomings of the government's proposal is the modest attitude towards the fight against the shadow economy. With the shadow economy, Finland loses up to billions of dollars each year in losses of various taxes and charges. Together with the construction sector, the transport sector is the most important sector of the shadow economy. The black economy in the transport sector is estimated at around EUR 500 million. By flexibilizing regulation in terms of requirements and controls, the government's proposal put the committee before a rather impossible repair operation. For Finnish entrepreneurs, workers and the transport sector as a whole, supervision and common standards mean fair competition, where the best companies thrive, grow and succeed, not those who avoid their obligations because of the shortcomings of controls. In the transport sector, the fight against the black economy is of paramount importance, not only when it does not generate additional work or costs. Unfortunately, our committee had to do much of its work to ensure the means of combating the current level of the shadow economy in its report and not the new means that are often called for by the reform of the law. Mr President! I have noticed that for many members of the government, this government proposal has been difficult and there has been a need to explain black and white as well. The Finns have turned their coats to defend the taxi system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u177	At this stage, the general debate and the proceedings are suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u178	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u179	Mr President! There is a law on transport services in the proceedings. It combines passenger and freight transport and also involves the interoperability of information and information systems — digitality, ticket systems, for example. The purpose of the law is to better integrate transport services, so that different modes of transport are combined with information, for example by means of ticketing, but it is possible to use travel chains, such as the use of their own car, its parking, the use of the train's ticket, and then even riding a bicycle in a city. You can buy this whole package with one email or ticket system and act accordingly. It therefore facilitates everyday life through the services of citizens. Similarly, we want transport to be combined, i.e. for goods and passenger transport. There has been a hard debate in the Chamber about what is going to happen to rural transport services. In particular, taxi services have been put at the heart of this, but the intention is not to punish all parts of Finland for moving, on the contrary it will be facilitated, and services will also be combined so that in the future, for example, postal services, passenger transport, commercial services, any statutory services organised by municipalities and cities can be put together and transported across municipalities and municipal centres. The aim is therefore to make the integration of transport services a seamless transport chain. Thus, at this stage, this first round of traffic involved passenger and freight transport, but in the second phase it involves rail, air and then sea transport. It examines the smoothness of these chains, but also the professional qualifications. It should be noted that bouncing a customer from one ticket door to another ends and the possibility of combining tickets and payment platforms will be made easier here. At the same time, attention is also drawn to the fact that efforts are being made to reduce the costs of mobility on the public side when the services are purchased, but hopefully also the customer's service prices. We now give space and decision-making power to develop transport services, taking into account regional conditions and customer-oriented. For example, in my own province, there is a local transport bar or a different kind of tuning, which goes through all the mobility services and forms used by one municipality. This is very reasonable in that sense if, for example, we want to combine school rides or service rides and consider cost-effectiveness and rationality with how people can move around in different forms of service. It will also enable new entrepreneurship, which I personally hope will become more involved in transport services. Mr President! The reform of the taxi legislation has come at the heart of this debate and the committee. It raises a great deal of opinions in favour and against, but above all, the new one always creates uncertainty. There has been talk about how this law deals equally with our citizens in relation to taxi traffic across Finland. What will happen to rural services, whether costs increase or fall, who will decide what will happen to the reliability of taxis? What, then, about all the different questions about taxi drivers’ professional qualifications? There are a great many different issues that were addressed in committee work and sought to legislate and to look at the law through the fact that it is precisely this predisposition of taxi service that will maintain reliability in the future. A number of clarifications were therefore made to the draft report and, above all, it was assumed that the taxi service will continue to be subject to authorisation in the future. You need a taxi license, a driving licence and a taxi vehicle licence to operate a taxi business. Professional qualifications were also much involved in the type of professional qualifications still required of taxi drivers. With regard to technology neutrality, I say this because the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also took the view that the rate gauges are still at the required level. Therefore, there must be a taximeter or other device or system used to determine the price to achieve the corresponding measurement data, its reliability and the level of data protection. It has been said many times in this Chamber that the taximeters will be removed. When I ask the professionals that question, many still rely on that taximeter and will certainly act accordingly. But technology neutrality was also included in this taximeter logic. The obligation to provide a receipt is also maintained. The obligation to provide a receipt is the general rule, with the exception of some payments made electronically, for example in connection with an order, and these payments must be verified electronically and so on. In other words, there was a great deal to be said about the fact that reliability is still maintained. A taxi driver, as I said, is still required — driving licence, taxi license and taxi licence — but as far as the driver’s professional qualifications are concerned, he must be a suitable person for the sector and possess the necessary knowledge and skills. We in this committee have brought up a new element, that is to say, when the training, training, compulsoryity is removed, the driver's test still measures how professional the driver will be in the future. All we can say is that we are facing a new one. Transport services are changing, you can say, almost despite legislation. As far as the bus and train sectors are concerned, we have just seen it, and yes, the taxi sector is an integral part of our transport services. I hope that this law will go forward and that we will be able to apply the chains of travel so that taxis are also part of our chain of travel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u180	Mr President! The law on transport services is an important and ambitious package of laws which, if implemented in practice, will have positive effects on the functioning and accessibility of our transport system. This legislative package can also create entirely new business opportunities, promote competition and allow people and goods to move more smoothly and efficiently in cities, urban areas and rural areas. In this big package of laws, the customer is at the heart of the matter, when so far the development of traffic has been very system-oriented. Since this is a major change to the current system, there is also, quite understandably, a great deal of concern and uncertainty. Today, too, in this debate and in the course of the six months it was before the Committee on Transport and Communications, these issues have become more concrete, particularly in the taxi sector. It is particularly important to monitor and ensure that the customer’s position, services, regional access, fair conditions of competition in the market and the future objectives of the emergence of new transport services are met. Similarly, regulation and action, for example, need to be monitored very closely from the point of view of combating the shadow economy. In the whole of this big forward-looking issue, taxis and the future of the taxi industry have been the ones that have discussed and pondered the most. In my opinion, it is a good thing that the taxi industry is involved in this package of laws. If it had been completely excluded from this law, it would probably not have been in the interest of the taxi industry either. The Taxi Federation itself has also wanted taxis to be involved in this traffic cycle or in the law on transport services. The proposed taxi system has been estimated to contribute to the efficient use of resources and to facilitate the combination of transport. Of course, in this context too, it should be noted that in the extensive consultation of the committee, the experts have both supported and opposed the proposed reforms. There has been particular concern about the availability of taxis in sparsely populated areas, the high quality of taxi services and the prices of quiet weekends and nights. The biggest changes in taxi traffic are now the abolition of the authorisation quota system and the modification of the place of employment and maximum regulation. In committee and in the report, particular attention has been paid, among other things, to the quality of the taxi service, the driver's licence requirements and pricing. The committee wishes to safeguard the legal security of taxi customers by maintaining the test of taxi drivers defined by Traf, which requires, among other things, knowledge of at least another domestic language, knowledge of the Finnish language in particular, and sufficient local knowledge. The taxi driver must be in a position to ensure the safety of the customer and to take into account any operating restrictions. Taxi drivers will continue to be required to have professional driving skills and personal suitability for this demanding work. Today, taxi license holders become genuinely entrepreneurs, who also respond to the fact that they will continue to have professional taxi drivers. The taxi driver will reply that the taxi driver is authorised to drive the taxi driver. I am saddened by the fact that many speakers have, in a way, been blaming taxi drivers and the taxi industry for nothing, because they are highly skilled and serviceable people today. Now that the price regulation of the taxi service changes, Trafi will be able to intervene if significant problems are identified with regard to pricing. The committee has also been concerned about the identification of taxis. It is therefore important that the vehicle carrying out taxi services should be identifiable by the customer. Similarly, it is important for the customer’s legal security that pricing is clearly known before the start of the journey and that the customer receives a receipt from a taximeter or similar device. Thus, even in the future, taxis will require a taximeter or a device of equivalent reliability and data protection when the price is based on the measurement of the journey or journey time. All in all, this law on transport services is a package of laws that will enable people to move around and to meet future needs, which will be complemented by phase two already in preparation and, in due course, phase three. This will then bring all modes of transport to the same level. Mr President! The three statements in the committee report are justifiable and justified. They draw attention to the fact that regulatory enforcement of traffic regulations subject to authorisation remains effective and that the reduction of authorisation regulation must not lead to phenomena related to the black economy or market failures, but also that the Government will closely monitor the impact of the legislative package now being adopted and, if necessary, take immediate action to amend the regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u181	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The law on transport services has now been in the Chamber today, and in fact this has been in Parliament's deliberations for almost a year at various stages. Of course, along the way, the government's proposal has changed a lot, and today it is time for the final debate in the Chamber. The Act starts from the fact that passenger transport and related transport represent a turnover of around EUR 30 billion in Finland, and of this the share of private car use is very significant, with more than 90% depending on the method of calculation. The biggest attention today has been given to taxi traffic, which accounts for about 1.5% of this pot. We can therefore rightly say that taxi transport is the most important part of Finnish passenger transport if we consider the volume of this debate. However, 1.5% of the industry's turnover is the total pot, and private motoring has been completely ignored, which accounts for almost 90% of the total. I think that this should have been given much more attention, given the overall debate today on the law on transport services. Good is the progress of digitalisation in this government proposal, including the harmonisation of ticket practices between different means of transport and timetable information. Information on timetables is today and is good through digitalisation. The labelling of taxis, the taxi dome, the taxi light, has also attracted attention in committee proceedings. However, I would remind you that the taxi already in existence in Finland is well marked with a cab dome and a taxi light. This government proposal has raised this type of self-evident issue in order to turn its main attention away from the main issue. It is also a good proposal for young entrepreneurs to enter the sector. There are hardly any demands for them to enter the sector. Integrity, and when the crime record is clean, the permit for the taxi operator is easy, and when the permit is company-specific, then the waiver of the number of permits comes as much as it wants. Young entrepreneurs will certainly thank you for this, and there has also been a great deal of enthusiasm for this today in the debate in the Chamber. I think this free pricing is good, too, because, of course, if you live in a market economy, the free price is always what is available at that time of the ride to the maximum. Young entrepreneurs will also be grateful for this, because free pricing also allows for high prices. Of course, there will be price elasticity compared to today's fixed price system, which has been in Finland. In this free pricing, Trafi then has the opportunity to set a roof price, but everyone can imagine that if you feel that you have paid a hundred bucks for a ride on May Day night, is it worth calling a Trafi official at night and starting to rebuke and demand correction? This is such a beautiful wish, but there will be no such price regulation in normal life. Of course, if there is constant over-pricing in some area, Trafi can intervene, but even then we are already very late, and I can say that once the milk has fallen, it is no longer worth fighting for. I myself would like to compare the situation with the current situation in this government proposal and in the committee report, because today there has been a debate on what is changing and what is good about this new proposal. Of course, the permit is still a prerequisite for a taxi, and in future it will be a company-specific permit. Today, the permit is car-specific and, for example, it is not possible to sell the licence, but it is transferred back to the Ely Centre, and in this way the next entrepreneur who starts is able to start at the lowest possible cost, because he does not have to pay for the licence himself like a so-called stamp tax, which today is a few hundred euros. This has been highly acclaimed that this is a good thing, because it becomes a commodity. As an industry itself for 26 years, I know that if you start doing business with traffic permits, it will immediately raise the price of the tax, and that is how consumers pay it. But that is what has been said many times in the debate today that this is a good thing. I personally regard it as a harmful and bad thing. The combination of rides has been highly acclaimed in this new proposal, and that may, of course, be possible in the future. Today, however, legislation still prevents the combination of food transport, freight and passenger transport on a regular basis, as there are cold or warm regulations for food transport. Today, a taxi is not suitable for that purpose. A different VAT base for the transport of foodstuffs, for the transport of goods and for the transport of persons is also a big threshold, and I think that this will also create practical problems. Well, this has been considered a reform, but it has been said on many occasions that the transport of mail has been handled by a taxi in Finland since the last century — so much for the reform. The conditions of competition are, of course, always the one thing we want to compare, and it has been suggested here that fair conditions of competition are the great objective of the law. That is true, it is a good objective, but the different car tax base, the car tax regulations, which are still in force at the moment — and this proposal in particular stresses that the car tax issue is not being addressed — are already creating a situation where those fair conditions of competition are not being met. After all, you have a good car tax case: the tax advantage of a taxi, EUR 4800, is maintained. 1.7.2018 then everyone who has that taxi license in their pocket has the opportunity to buy a car tax-free car, but there is no obligation to start taxi traffic, because it is not compulsory in any way, but you can obtain a taxi permit in Finland and then go to the car dealership and buy a car tax advance car and then drive it as much as you want, because there is no obligation to start traffic. Today, if you want a taxi licence and take a tax advantage, it is absolutely necessary to start operating within six months — unless, of course, you have to return the car tax benefit to the Ely Centre and then pay the car dealer if you have been able to buy the car. So today it is an obligation to start, there will be no obligation in the future. Much attention has also been paid to the problems of the grey economy here, and this proposed legislative reform compared to the current situation is, in many respects, much more lax and enables the grey economy to come back to the sector in many ways, i.e. to go back about 20 years and to introduce these examples from 20 years ago in Finland. This is very regrettable to me because it would have been possible to take the example of a neighbouring country and even go where Sweden is at the moment. There are many things that have come back, but the committee and the government's proposal did not want to take the example of Sweden or Denmark, but wanted to see it done. This has not been the case anywhere in the world. When the traffic regulation has been abandoned, it has not gone anywhere in the world to lower the fares for the rides and not to a great deal to improve the economy, but has gone, could you say, through the pit always try and get things back? There are also concerns about the availability of taxis here. Personally, I see that in sparsely populated areas, the availability of taxis is deteriorating from the present day, because today the station obligation is and there is an on-call obligation and there is a taxi available all over Finland at a reasonable distance. 1.7.2018 This obligation will then be lifted, and then we will go according to demand and supply, and everyone can imagine what will happen then: the availability will be reduced, and of course the price on the ride will always go according to the market. There has also been concern about rural services, and this issue of access concerns rural areas in particular. I think the services there are clearly endangered. Well, I have already mentioned the example of Sweden and Denmark. I would have thought it wise for Finland to take the example of neighbouring countries now and, in this regulation, to go into a situation similar to the current situation in Sweden when reforms were to be made. After all, there are these regulations and the grey economy is now well-handled. Just a few more words about taxi training and driver training: Now entrepreneurship training is not required... [President MariaLohela : Mr Pakkanen,I am obliged to remind you that the recommendation of 10 minutes is the maximum length ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u184	Madam President! In short, for my part, I still appreciate the Finnish taxi business very much, where the real professionals are. And this new legislation, which has now taken its final form in the report of the Committee on Transport, seems to me to be a reasonably good compromise. Of course there will still be a few problems, of which we do not even know all yet, because the new law does not exist and there is no new practice, but fortunately the law has quite clear proposals for statements which have been considered in favour of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which will then follow up the situation and, if necessary, address the problems that the new situation will cause. And when Mr Markku Pakkanen made an excellent point in his own speech about these different options and the various problems that might be involved, I will sign them all in his speech. And I sincerely hope that when the new law comes into force, if those problems arise, then they will be genuinely and immediately addressed. We have examples of this in the western neighbour of Sweden, which could at worst be the failure of taxi traffic if the legislation does not correspond to the existing conditions. But I believe that the Committee on Transport and Tourism, in consultation with experts and in its own deliberations, has carefully considered this issue, and I think that the result that has now been achieved is a good one and should then be improved with the possible revisions of the law that will come about in the near future. One more thing, Madam President, is on the side of this transport of goods. I am very pleased that the procedure for driving licences for tractors will be abolished. Today, even large loads can be transported very conveniently and safely, and they are good in rural conditions, for example. Where trucks and large excavators are not readily available, such a traffic tractor with a front loader is quite well equipped, among other things, to handle road gravel independently without its greater help. It is a great help, and it works very effectively, and now that it has no licence, it is very important for many young entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u185	Madam President! The present draft law on transport services is a significant and ambitious legislative project. The aim is to modernise the regulation of transport services and to provide operators with more equal opportunities for competition. The proposal affects the regulation of passenger and freight services. Transport services worldwide are changing greatly due to technological developments and new service innovations. Finnish legislation has not recognised the change in the world, and that is why the law needs to be reformed. Our legislation must be such as to enable progress and progress to be made. It is difficult to predict and evaluate in detail the effects of transport services and world change, which is why the committee has limited some of the changes proposed by the government and, in its report, stresses the importance of close monitoring and, if necessary, rapid response. Monitoring the success of the reform of the law is critical to ensure that the objectives of the law are achieved in terms of the status of the customer, access to services, reduction of regulatory burdens, fair market and competition, and the emergence of new types of transport services. The opening and co-operation of interfaces with essential information on mobility services will create opportunities for new marketing, sales and service delivery methods. The aim is to promote the development of services on customer terms in accordance with the principles of free and fair competition. Service providers can use open interfaces to develop mobility service products, help customers understand and buy travel chains and so on. Promoting these MaaS services and innovations can provide Finnish companies with new business opportunities and potentially significant export products. As far as public transport is concerned, this reform removes the national requirement for a separate licence for route and call traffic. The professional qualifications of the lorry driver and bus driver will be reduced. In the future, there will be no mandatory entrepreneurship training for the freight carrier for equipment weighing less than 3500 kg, and the limit for the authorisation of transport operations will also be raised to 3.5 tonnes. However, the professional transport of goods by car weighing more than 2,000 kg requires registration in Trafi’s register. Mr President! In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, the time and work were by far the most involved in considering the changes in taxi traffic and their impact. The committee did not accept the original Ministry's proposal as such, but was supplemented along the way, and the committee also adopted a position in its report on the organisation of taxi services. The committee has therefore negotiated a number of changes with the Ministry along the way. Three major changes are therefore taking place in the taxi system: the abolition of authorisation regulation, price regulation and place of employment obligations. The impact of these changes on passenger transport services has been carefully assessed. As far as taxi transport is concerned, a large number of discussions have been held in committee and almost 70 experts have been consulted. It is noteworthy that in its opinion the Constitutional Committee has considered that the abolition of the number of taxi licences is justified by constitutional law. This makes it much easier to obtain a licence for taxis. It is no longer vehicle specific. However, no one will be able to obtain a permit in the future, but certain basic conditions must be met. Originally, the idea of the draft was to waive the driver's driving licence. You'll have to keep your license. The course requirement will be substantially facilitated, but the suitability and skills of the driver will continue to be measured by the test and a certain skill and level and ability must be maintained. Among other things, the committee added to the law the requirement that the driver's knowledge of language skills and accessibility be measured by an experiment. The taxi shall be easily identifiable to the customer. This is regulated separately. It is important for the assembly that the right to use taxi identifiers is reserved only for holders of a taxi permit. At the moment, a yellow dome can be put on the roof of its car by anyone, and at least it is not prohibited by law. The system corresponding to the taximeter must continue to be in operation. The committee has set minimum standards for this and demands that the Finnish Transport Safety Agency provide more detailed specifications of the equipment required. The level of reliability must be at least at the same level as the current rates. In my view, no transport brokerage service, either Finnish or foreign, has yet put in place a system to replace the taximeter, which would now meet the requirements that the committee is imposing and which, for example, would have an automatic digital interface to ensure that social obligations are guaranteed to be met. In the case of foreign brokering services, particular attention must be paid, among other things, to the payment of VAT and other liabilities to Finland. At the moment, it is by no means self-evident. Further: For some foreign brokerage services, there are indications that financial and real brokerage services are managed by different companies. The Finnish authority must closely monitor the appropriateness of the activities, as such an arrangement obscures responsibility and justifies a more thorough examination of the will of these companies to discharge their social responsibility. Of course, in the heat of novelty, there should be no squishyness or slackness with regard to tax payments, insurance or other employers' contributions. The committee included in its report three statements which in practice oblige the Government to monitor and act in the event of possible market failures and in relation to the informal economy. Further: Parliament requires the Government to report on the impact of this law up to 2022 and, if necessary, the Government must take immediate action to improve regulation if there is any need. Mr President! It has been asked whether such a reform is needed at all. An interesting feature of the expert hearings was that none of the participants in the discussion ever said that the taxi industry or passenger transport would be doing well in business and that the current situation should be maintained as it is. I have talked to dozens of taxi drivers and taxi drivers, and none of them have said that there is enough driving to do and that there is nothing more to do. On the contrary: if there is a consensus on something, at least there should be more rides and rides. On the other hand, it has also become apparent that drivers are difficult to obtain. Current practice is difficult and changes are therefore needed. There are certainly many taxi operators who have to think about their own policies. The tightening effect of competition is a well-known economic reality. As competition increases in the transport sector, the price tag for consumer mobility services as a whole can be expected to decrease and improve. When services are provided, combined and used in a more diverse and efficient way, this assumption is justified. If this does not happen, the authority and the legislator must intervene and regulate by means of legislation to ensure that the ultimate purpose of this legislative project is achieved. The examples from the world tell us, as has been said many times here today, that success is in no way self-evident, and that is why monitoring is necessary. It is particularly important that the competitive situation is fair and no one gets unfair competitive advantage, for example from a lower foreign tax rate or similar. The committee has also drawn attention to this. There are questions. There's no point in denying it. The availability of taxis, for example, must be monitored in the future. In sparsely populated areas in particular, there is a risk that there will be no ride when it is needed as a result of the removal of the requirement for a place of employment. This needs to be addressed through guidance measures where necessary. If this happens on a regular basis, the transport authority in the region may apply the procedure laid down in the Service Contracts Regulation and obtain taxi services as open traffic comparable to public transport. This would involve a society rather than a taxi operator, as is currently the case. Total sum summrum: There is a major change in transport services ahead. The situation is new and offers new opportunities. This law will create a genuine mobility service market and opportunities for new types of business and easier application of new innovations in Finland. I know that there are some doubts about the reform and, on the other hand, I know that many people are enthusiastic about this and have already begun to develop their activities. The world is changing, and the way things work is evolving. This legislation gives Finland the opportunity to be involved in developments and even to show others direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u186	Mr President! History knows many big changes in society. These include the fight against driving by citizens, especially in cities in the 1960s, with the increase in passenger cars and the transfer of civil servants to the car party. In practice, when planning and building roads, the aim was to increase the number of private cars on purpose, because it was trendy. Fortunately, not exactly the craziest visions, but today all modes of transport are being developed in harmony. There was opposition to the seat belt requirement because it restricted individual freedoms, as well as speed limits. In the 19th century, there was a very suspicious attitude towards air travel. Now it is likely that each of us has flown several times, and it is the most common and safe form of movement. Change is also an opportunity. Transport develops with new visions and opportunities. This must be supported by political decisions, not made more difficult. That is why it has been very sad to hear here today that taxi companies are without very strict regulation right away for large consumers of the grey economy. My own experience of trying to provide services is based on honesty and trust. Even without regulation, the service must be excellent, flexible and the obligations are handled according to law. The report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on the transport cycle and certain related laws has been drafted very thoroughly. The bill is quite innovative and many new openings have been included in the bill. The most debate has been caused by changes in taxi traffic. The aim has constantly been to enable taxi transport to continue to be carried on smaller orders in the future. In rural areas in particular, many taxi drivers are almost exclusively school drivers and keepers of Kela rides. The actual customer rides have been rather low on a long pole despite emergency services. This is going to change, precisely these strict provisions. The rigid taxi licensing system based on the priority system will be abolished, and in the future the permit must be for the entrepreneur, whether he has one or more of those cars. Similarly, there will be a lot of deregulation for bus and coach transport and more entrepreneurial activity will be possible without continuing to apply for permits for different new routes or business ideas. This will build a basis for future transport services. This will provide a good basis for making more use of digitalisation for future service packages. The basic idea would still be that the focus would be on the customer instead of the system. At least I trust the Finnish taxi industry professionals who, as a result of this change, quickly develop their own business into larger entities permitted by the law. Mr President! Another important element of this legislation is the facilitation of freight transport. The ultimate idea is to facilitate the transport of goods without a rigid licensing system. An activity with a minor impact on the transport market will not require a licence in the future. This solution is a truly desirable and right-way break-down. In this respect, it is also good to lower standards for a longer period of time. According to the law, for example, a tractor licence is removed from tractors running no more than 60 km/h. This will facilitate, in particular, the operation of tractor entrepreneurs on land transfer. Unlike many people, tractor traffic is usually carried out where trucks cannot be reached. The areas of activity are therefore complementary and not competing. This will facilitate the smoother and more cost-effective implementation of construction work under difficult conditions. At the same time, there will also be significant savings in control resources by reducing additional regulatory limits. In practice, many entrepreneurs have been distressed by the vicious circle of revelations and controls, which fortunately is reduced by this performance. To the claims that have been made here today that the Cossacks are now starting to drive a tractor at 60: In practice, no such tractors can be found in Finland. The law allows, but in practice there is no such thing. Of course, tractors run about 50 miles a day now. In this respect, the creation of horror images is misleading, because even today, despite the threat of painting, traffic risks have not increased. This proposal only exempts them from a traffic licence, not from a driving licence. Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed. Although there are some concerns about the bill, I think the whole thing is moving in the right direction. The committee has added three proposals for statements to the report which I consider to be very successful and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u187	Mr President! The Government has taken a great risk when going to scrap the excellent Finnish taxi system. From the outset, the traffic cycle demonstrated the political objective of de-regulation, in fact, of a very limited system of regulated licensing in relation to other countries. The bull-headed deregulation of regulation has been the ambitious objective of Minister Berner, and the transport bar proposal has been made on the basis of this policy, regardless of its impact on the vital transport services of our country, which are vital for citizens and municipalities, especially in rural areas, and for Kela, in the absence of other transport services. It should be noted that the regulation of taxis is the main rule throughout Western Europe and even in the United States. Nowhere has there been a successful deregulation of the taxi sector yet, but even the few countries that have gone there, Sweden, Holland and Ireland, are experiencing huge problems and are constantly making new regulations to remedy these shortcomings. How could a purely market economy model succeed in sparsely populated Finland, where citizens and taxi services under the responsibility of society depend entirely on a functioning taxi system? This is why Denmark, Iceland and even wealthy Norway continue to maintain the regulation of taxi licenses and taxi fares, as it is the cheapest way to secure services throughout the country and at all times. The exception is Sweden, whose model for taxi services has never been sought here before. Of course, the regulation of the number of permits has been abolished there, but it has been replaced by strict other regulation, the so-called suitability test. The starting point is that services in rural areas are bought with the money of society. If this government proposal is adopted, it will largely mean a serious deterioration or even an end to taxi services in a number of rural municipalities. Uber taxi traffic is illegal, as stated by the Helsinki Court of Appeal when it sentenced two drivers to fines and damages for the use of unauthorized taxi services. In fact, in Finland certain parties at the Ministry of Transport and Communications were also enthusiastic about Uber’s landing in Europe and also in Finland, although even blind Crete saw that the operation was contrary to the existing taxi legislation. It should be noted that many of the media also went to this Uber praise. The noise weights were reduced after illegal activities were banned in Germany, France, Spain, Belgium and Sweden. There has been an option in the committee where authorisation is required whenever transport is carried out in return for compensation. Exceptions corresponding to current practice would have been listed separately, such as occasional co-driving in return or against a small fee, the transport of children to hobbies, even if some compensation is paid for it, i.e. in general situations that do not involve taxi-type activities. A clear line was not good enough for the government parties, so it is reasonable to suspect that another loophole is being sought here for Uber or for any other activity that is not wanted, for example, because of withholding revenue. A very bad thing about the bill is also to cut almost all education out of current practice. According to the proposal, training is intended to be carried out by companies. However, a new typical company is a one-person taxi company. That would often come to the sector with a foreign background without any entrepreneurial training. In committee, at least the rules on drivers were changed to the point where people who intend to be drivers are required to have some kind of test. There has been no desire to take experience from Sweden, even though something should have been clarified. In Sweden, for the sake of consumer protection and taxation, taxis require permits and correct metering. Taxis, as in other European countries, must look like taxis. Also required are tax gauges that provide direct data without any cloud services for taxation and pay. Even the representatives of Trafi in this committee considered the tax meter to be an obstacle to competition because of the high purchase price. A modern, even Finnish-made, taxameter with new data recording technology costs about 700 euros. There can be no obstacle to anyone starting an entrepreneurial activity. How to deal with disputes between the customer and the driver when a conflict arises over the price of the trip? In Sweden, drivers, the so-called friåkaret, have been a major problem in large Swedish cities, for example because of excessive pricing. In Sweden, there is nothing that can be done about this when there is no fixed maximum rate. In Finland today there is, and in the future no. When irregularities occur with regard to pricing, because Trafi sets a price cap and to whom — for all or for those responsible? The government's objective is to cut red tape. I'm just wondering how it can work. Today, taxi business is handled by about 15 people in the kingdom, i.e. 10,000 entrepreneurs and about 15,000 drivers. Consider how many people are needed in comparison to this, for example, to deal with consumer complaints or to deal with crimes that will inevitably be created by this bill of law for taxis. There's no doubt about that. It is also worth noting that transport based on centralised order systems and social transport, already built by the taxi industry, has already saved some EUR 20 million per year for social transport alone in Kela. According to the Government’s proposal, the figure is still the fleet used in taxi transport. What do trucks and vans, light and heavy tricycles and quadricycles do as taxis and so on? In Western Europe and elsewhere, we want taxis to be new and low-emission passenger cars. If this proposal is adopted, it will create enormous uncertainty for entrepreneurs and their families in the sector. Limited changes would affect young, newly authorised entrepreneurs with a car and equipment purchased with debt money. Will taxi fares be cheap in Finland through large companies of foreign taxis and will the tax money remain in Finland? My own estimate is that the profits go past the same address as Uber's profits. The bill is paid for this by the Finnish small taxi operator and their driver. I am in favour of the bill being rejected, at least as far as the provisions on taxi transport are concerned, and new preparations will be started on the basis of the existing rules on taxis. Regional licensing quotas, places of employment and consumers are the basis, which is also the maximum rate for protecting consumers. Like the Public Transport Act, permits are car-specific and only new, low-emission passenger cars could be used as taxis. Quality standards and the scope of existing training, as well as for entrepreneurs and drivers in the sector, will be maintained, thus maintaining the basic level of training and the quality of taxi services in the sector. Finally. The taxi companies of Helsinki and Uusimaa published an expert opinion on what will happen if the government's proposal is adopted: "The new law would lead to a confusing system, whose problems are familiar in, for example, Stockholm and Tallinn. In the absence of controls, prices can be practically anything and no one guarantees on-call services for sparsely populated areas. Responsibilities and damages fall on passengers. It is precisely for these reasons that Stockholm has returned to a more regulated model. Of course, traditional taxis are not disappearing. Instead, the Finnish taxi industry as it has served for 111 years is going to be in history. New players can bring growth, but the fear is that it will target the black economy." Taxi companies state that it is the responsibility of those in favour of the transport car project to determine how the quality of services and the integrity of operations will be ensured in the future, that taxi travel is not meant to be a trade in luck. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Pakka for her expert speech and, in particular, for the honest speech you gave about this toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u189	Mr President! I started by saying that this legislation changes a lot and changes in principle, which may lead to difficulties for some of us in understanding what is being done here. There are a lot of misconceptions, such as, for example, in the speech just now, what these trucks and these mean, how they relate to this taxi traffic. Indeed, if we were to do what this recent view was, then it would be possible for these to operate without permission and the obligations would not apply to them, thus releasing the traffic. In other words, this protest of the demares will guide the modern taxis into captivity in their regulations and will not, at least, endanger it, in practice, into those transport chains, and probably even Kela’s rides would not be available. So the spirit of this law, when it is possible, can no longer be corrected at this point. Here, the Finns of Peru have been attacked with false lies of this kind. Let me tell you a little bit about how this situation has come to pass and how this case has gone. When Minister Berner brought to the debate his first presentation, including this ten - ton limit, and then there would have been no obligation to be in any direction, it really did not happen to the Finns of Peru. [MirjaVehkahkäytä-AriTorniaisenkäyttö] Then, as time passed, it became apparent that this could not now be achieved in such a form that the current legislation of the taxi would be included in this traffic arch proposal, so at that point the Taxi Federation changed its line, changing its B-option, which is therefore market-based traffic with certain regulated patterns, and at that point the Finns of Finland also moved to a similar line after the discussions, and therefore, listening to the Taxi League, they ended up in the traffic cycle. So when you came here, the traffic curve was based on a market-based traffic pattern. When we went on from there and made clarifications, the Taxi League has still been involved, it has been heard. And some of this information, which in public now goes a little there and here, is based on false information. In any case, we in the committee have now done what we now have, as good a report as possible, with legislation. For example, even if the number of permits is no longer limited, the same conditions apply to everyone, for example, so that their vehicle must be registered for professional transport, and so there will be certain quality requirements, such as insurance, roadworthiness tests and so on. It's been said here that you don't have to be in the car. That's the wrong information. You have to have your license in the car. The driver's information must also be included, which means that there must be two licenses in the car. The travel system, whatever it is and whatever it is, shall indicate all the payment traffic data that is known. These are the points that have been seen as very important around the committee's table, and these will be shepherded. If there is any doubt that this spelling is somehow so that it could cause problems of interpretation, then in Phase Two and Stage Three this will come back. It is the spirit of the committee that all financial transactions are always informed. This is the fight against the shadow economy. In any case, this is as balanced as it can be. Well, the point is that all modes of transport must be in this same legal regulation. If, for some reason, a taxi were outside of this, as announced or suggested in the protest of the demars, it means, as I have already said before, that it jeopardises the fact that they do not get into these chains of travel and they do not even get into the Kela rides, which would mean that the incomes of taxi companies would collapse because the form of this law is such that it allows other kinds of activity. It would have been possible to write it in accordance with its original goal of the Finns, that is to say, the whole law would have been formulated in such a way that the taxi operates on the basis of the regulation that it currently is. But when it is written in this form, you cannot take it away without a taxi suffering. This will now enable these chains of travel. Now there's been a MaaS experiment here in the capital region. What news has been heard about it has acted precisely according to the expectations expected of these travel chains, that is, experimenters have reduced the use of their own car and increased the use of public transport and taxis, which are part of public transport. This means that when pure money is spent on taxi transport more, taxicab entrepreneurs' income increases. It also means that the expenditure of the person who has been associated with these services will be reduced, as that own car will not necessarily be needed. This will work when this thing goes really well. It's just an experiment. When this goes properly and it comes, there are good places around the world where it develops, then taxi entrepreneurs, public transport entrepreneurs and the whole population will benefit from it, because then the existence and availability of public transport will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u190	Madam President! I would like to pick up where I left off the last time, which is the training part of the government's proposal. In this proposal, almost all the training required of a taxi operator today is abandoned: the requirement for entrepreneurship training is abolished, the driver training, which is a week's duration of training, and it is just this test. I personally value education, and Finnish education for entrepreneurs is also important. This is, in itself, a somewhat surprising line in this regard, that when it comes to passenger transport, small children or disabled people, the driver does not have a training requirement in relation to the number he has today, but is prepared to give them up, whereas the committee is aware that there will be no demands for training there, and there will never be any attempt to question the issue of training. In my opinion, it would have been a policy for taxis to retain this training requirement as well, on the one hand, then for buses and lorries to give up the training claim, but I do appreciate this training, and I think it is important that, as the proposal says, drivers and licence holders know the legal issues with sufficient precision and not only have access to the service and have sufficient knowledge of the language and the locality. In many speeches, attention has been paid to the profitability of the taxi and it is estimated that this is a bad business. After all, the Minister said today that the taxi is another top business not only in the pharmacy industry but also in Finland, and from that statement I understand that what a frenzy it is now to change this current system. After all, the pharmacy industry is very much in the process of being redesigned, and if this is the motivation to change the Finnish taxi system, I think it is a little special. I know that many taxi companies have more hopes: more earnings, more mileages. However, for 26 years in the field, I have not had a single minus mark for a year. Of course, this is not an expert report because it is a personal experience, but I have at least been able to engage in a profitable taxi business in Finland so far. Foreign transport systems have also been brought to the debate, and as was heard in committee, so with this proposal, if it goes through in this form, on 1 July 2018 Uber is then, among other things, a legitimate activity in Finland, because the driver, who has the licence and this order delivery, which is already authorised — it is connected — is the licensed driver and the Uber brokerage activity is permitted on that day. Then the legislator or the authority will no longer be able to reach this point. That is why I myself wanted a stricter definition of the definition of professional transport, i.e. this 'against compensation' activity, but it was not carried through in committee, and through the outcome of the negotiations in the context of the negotiations between the Taxi Federation and the Ministry, it remained as it was in this context in the proposal, but it will then enable this type of business in the future. The obligations of employers and compliance with them. At present, taxi employers comply with their own agreements and negotiations. In the future, I would not be so sure if a very diverse group of entrepreneurs were to join the industry. The professional skills and obligations of drivers here in many speeches have even been somewhat questioned, and I believe that one way of avoiding the informal economy is to avoid employers' obligations, and of course the temptation for a new entrepreneur to enter the sector is very much to avoid extra costs. These are tricky. And I was rather surprised that, among other things, the opposition's own proposals for change did not in any way pay attention to the role of the driver, which I considered to be a bit of a bad line. I would have expected the left-wing parties to at least be concerned about the situation of the taxi driver, which I am also very concerned about, because at the moment, three permanent drivers are being paid a salary. All in all, this reform has certainly not succeeded anywhere else in the world, such a tough liberalisation, without regulations to go along with this. Let us hope, of course, that Finland will succeed. Finland would be the first country to be able to do this liberalisation in such a way that everything is going well. The committee itself is very sceptical, because it has put its own statements in this own motion, three statements, and there is a great deal of concern about the monitoring of the grey economy, so it is certainly honest to recognise that there is a proposal that is being made here that is of great concern. This famous Finnish reliable taxi system is now highly endangered. A Finnish taxi does not die in this performance. A Finnish taxi will be fine. In this respect, the biggest loser is Finnish society. I think it will lose a significant amount of tax revenue in this opportunity for the informal economy. This may sound like a bit of a drag on this gray economy, but let us now take, for example, this meter or a similar type of device for that car, and it will already allow so many intermediate steps that putting the grey economy in a so-called breast pocket will certainly be an attractive option. If such a number of new operators enter the sector, as estimated in the proposal, there will be thousands of new taxis for transport, especially here in the capital region, the situation will be extremely difficult when this new situation arises. The temptation to do things a little looser comes without a doubt. That is why I believe that Finnish society is the biggest loser here. A Finnish taxi will get away with this, too. And if this is the idea of the Ministry of Transport to get a Finnish taxi entrepreneur on his knees, it will not happen in this performance either. About the price of the taxis and how to show them. In other words, when the price has to be given in advance, I would now like to add one more example. After all, we have had these yellow taxis at the airport in Finland for a long time and there has been a price multiplied by how much a ride costs from the airport to Helsinki. This has been standard practice, licensed activity, legal activity. That too would not have had to be the subject of such a reform. If a very attentive consumer has noticed, that offer may sometimes be 25 euros per person in the city centre of Helsinki, even if the hotel to Marski from there. Then it will wait for 4-5 passengers and everyone will pay it EUR 25 for this company, well it will be a hundred and fifty. It's an excellent job for that cab operator. Of course, this single customer gets a cheap ride, 25 euros. However, if this group had chosen a car from the taxi line that could accommodate six passengers, the same ride would have cost approximately EUR 75 to 80 from the airport to that hotel Marsk today, and if it had been divided up to six, it would have cost between EUR 13 and EUR 14 with normal practice and a normal rate. This is now seen as a reform that this EUR 25 is a cheap ride for the consumer, but this normal rate of EUR 13 to 14 is considered too high for the price of a Finnish taxi. I myself know this very well, because in my region of Kouvola, young people particularly engage in this kind of group-building. When you're going in the same direction, you put 5 to 6 guys in the same car and go home for the night. The ride is very affordable: between 10 and 15 euros, and we can get young people home safely. But that is not what this reform is about, but it is considered more sensible to go to this perhaps a little more expensive option and to consider it a fine reform. As such, these reforms, which we have here, are commonplace even today in Finnish taxi traffic. — 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u191	Mr President! The Act under discussion on transport services, also known as the Code of Conduct, contains a number of important changes. Most of these relate to the deregulation of the taxi sector. In this respect, this law has both positive aspects and some points which require further consideration even after the law has been adopted. Fortunately, there have been many improvements to the law compared to the original proposal by Minister Berner. At the request of the Finns-based, taxi drivers will be required, among other things, to have adequate interaction and language skills. Compliance with these conditions shall be measured. The taxi driver must also have sufficient local knowledge. These are very important issues for the service to customers. As the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, said earlier, the famous turnover limit of EUR 10000, which was also opposed by the Taxi Federation, has also been abandoned. Price regulation and pricing will change, but the Finnish Transport Agency will be able to set a maximum price for taxi transport under certain conditions. The purpose of this provision is to prevent adverse price developments in markets where competition is low. This possibility of limitation is also important. The committee's report has highlighted the use of a tax meter or a similar system. It is also good for customers to be able to rely on the appropriateness of pricing in the future. The tax authority must also be able to check the payments made. The fight against the shadow economy must be addressed in the context of reform, as the committee has proposed in its report. Mr President! Hopefully, with increased competition, taxis will also be available in rural areas. Finally, I would like to thank the committee for the sensible changes it has made to the draft law in order to safeguard and promote taxi transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u192	Madam President! In conclusion, I would like to take the floor at least here, Mr Jalonen and Mr Savio, to mention that, at the request of the Finns, the form of this motion was obtained. Yes, the committee worked both on the government-opposition front and within the government. It seems to me to be a little unusual that this is now being raised to such an important part of the work of the committee. I am also taking the floor because only these debates will be recorded in the history books. The committee debates or the Evening Sanomat debate are different, but this is the official place where this debate takes place. And at least I personally feel that the government parties were strongly involved in the changes to this government's proposal, influenced its content, as did the opposition with their own views. This is the whole thing that has gone through this, and this is the result of many pains, not just the presentation of the Finns of Peru. As such, the Finns of Peru were in the seat of the cabinetmaker, that if they wanted to preserve Finnish taxi traffic, they would have had the power and the will to do so, but they might have had a little lack of skill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u193	Madam President! As Mr Pakkanen has already pointed out, I refer to Mr Savio's speech, in which he pointed out that the government's proposal would have had this ten-ton limit. It has not been in the government's proposal; Minister Berner has not. It was not specifically in the government's proposal, it was there in the consultation, and it has been removed from it since the consultation. And when Mr Savio pointed out that the requirements for the driver's qualifications had been clarified in the course of the committee's deliberations on the proposal of the Finns-of-origin, all those relating to the driver's qualifications, specifically the driver's test and so on, were matters raised unanimously by the committee and jointly by representatives of all the government parties. I can say that myself when I was there to present them myself. All the representatives of the government parties were also raising these issues jointly, and also the representatives of the opposition parties were self-involved to raise these issues very strongly. I do not want to raise anyone or any government party in particular on this issue. This is a common compromise that has been found, joint improvements have been made to that government proposal and these matters have been taken forward together, and I believe that this is also a proposal adopted unanimously by the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u194	Mr President! Mr Pakkanen's statement is a small clarification: it is quite like Mr Torniainen said, and the ten-ton limit was not in the government's proposal, but it was in the Berner's proposal. On this point, I would like to say to Mr Pakkanen that the Centre Party Council has given its full support to Berner's policy, which means that this debate must be somewhere else than what Mr Pakkanen suggests. In any case, the True Finns played a major role at the time the government proposal was made, and there are precisely these harsh demands that came into the government’s performance. But what has been done in committee has been done, as has been proven here, in a spirit of good cooperation by the whole committee, including the opposition and also Mr Pakkanen. We have been quite united and concerned about, among other things, this taxi business. This was the kind of speech where I brought things up when there might be someone here with the wrong image otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u195	Mr President! I would now like to make my own contribution more specific, when it obviously gave rise to a bit of confusion. When I referred to this turnover limit of EUR 10000, I really meant changes after the consultation process as a result of internal government negotiations. It is indeed a good thing that this change was made in the negotiations within the government in good agreement. However, the Finns of Peru were very strongly of the opinion that this limit should be removed from this original draft. Similarly, this second point, to which I referred, has already been called for by the Finns of Finland before the committee reading. But, of course, it is good that these changes have now come to this law. They will certainly contribute to the smooth operation of taxi traffic in the future. Thank you for these changes for all those who have supported them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u196	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u197	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the provision on the election of the Archbishop of the Church Act, and also proposes to amend the provisions on the selection of the deputies. I believe that the changes proposed are all in the right and in the right direction. The functions of the archbishop are determined by the general statutory duties of the bishop and the special duties of the archbishop. The bishop’s office has, above all, been considered an office of gospel proclamation and sacraments distribution, and it will continue to be. One of the most important tasks is his office as president of the Council, the Bishops’ Assembly and the Church Government. There is no change to these tasks in this proposal either. The term of office of the district minister is based on the name used during the period prior to the reform. They serve as overseers of priests and overseers of spiritual and moral life in their territory. The bishop of the diocese appoints them to his mission. It is the duty of the district minister to lead the church where he is assisting the bishop and the chaplain in the church administration and to promote the cooperation of its churches. These same tasks will remain after this government proposal, so there will be no change. However, there is one thing I would have stressed, or at least wanted to be noted, in this presentation: that they are all, both archbishops and deputies, the foremen of their congregation. What they say or do is perceived as the same as the congregation they preside over. They should also follow the law in force. You'd think this would be taken for granted, but it's not. On the news, we regularly note that one of the leaders of our congregations has moved to oppose the law or legal decisions of the law. If you cannot or do not want to comply with legal decisions, I think we should move on to other tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u198	President! This amendment to the Church Act is a natural follow-up to the development that actually culminated in the new church law adopted in 1994. After all, this was a very significant change and, in fact, further loosened the relationship between the church and the state, if even then it was not allowed to talk about the state church system under Finnish conditions. Since then, this legislation has been further reformed and refined, inter alia, by the change in diocese administration towards the 21st century. At that time, the practices of the diocese meetings and the diocese meetings were abandoned and the office of the despot became fixed-term. At that time, the chaplain appointed one of the three most votes — the clergy of the parish, therefore, had the right to vote — that is to say, he used the appointment test. After all, this is changing in that the doomsday court appoints one of the church lords of the parish and is therefore no longer an election by the clergy of the parish. This will contribute to strengthening and clarifying the role and function of the deputies as part of the Episcopal regime. In fact, when many of these changes have taken place over the last 20 years, it is very paradoxical that the path that Archbishop Juva took in the turn of the 70s and 80s has now been taken. At that time, he fell into this slow pace of legislative reform of the church, but then the road he was leading has been followed. The archbishop — not only is the archbishop the chief bishop of the archdiocese, but the archbishop also has the central functions of the whole church — has changed in that another bishop’s office has been established in the archdiocese and some functions of the whole church have been taken away from the archbishop. The situation has been peculiar in that it can be said that the last two archbishop officials have actually been elected from the home field and the sounds of the home field. In the past, however, although the majority of the voters of the archdiocese have been overwhelming, there have been elected and appointed people who have actually been well known and respected in the whole church. After all, this electorate structure will now be changed so that the proportion of people coming from other parts of Finland will be increased — not just in the fifty-fifty situation, but in the 55-45 situation, but still — the proportion of voters coming from other parts of Finland will increase. President! One of the key points of the 1994 Church Act was that one practice changed. When the old church law and its amendments were confirmed in Parliament, only those members of parliament who were members of the church were allowed to take part in the proceedings before that law of 94. This practice changed, and the church law actually left such big lines, a kind of frame, and then much of what was previously in the church law was transferred to the church order approving the Council. This has, of course, been a good development. From time to time, the relationship between the church and the state is being discussed again, especially since the opinions of some people who use the church’s voice on immigration issues have perhaps been raised in many ways as a source of conflict, that is, these relations between the church and the state have been the subject of discussion. The church has a public-law status in Finland, self-government. In some way it compares it with the autonomy of Åland, the Sámi Parliament or universities, but under all circumstances the church and the state always have some kind of relationship. It has been in all kinds of societies, both totalitarian systems and very free societies. I think the Nobel Prize-winning writer T. S. Eliot summed this up nicely. I think I've said T from this same place before. S. Eliot's words that if church-state relations are good, then there is something wrong with church, if church-state relations are bad, then there is something wrong with the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u199	Mr President! The bill deals with the position and duties of the Archbishop. At least the archbishop currently in office has a unique view of these tasks. Helsingin Sanomat headlined on 13 September 2015 that according to Archbishop Kari Mäkinen, it is not the duty of the church to defend the interests of Finland. In addition to this and other worrying statements that have recently been made about the church, these call into question the final decisions of the Finnish authorities. I therefore raise the question of whether this is right and right. Church obligations are regulated by law and the church is perceived as a social institution with tax collection rights. I find it intolerable that such positions are being taken within its sphere that call into question our rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u200	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u201	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the hunting law. The main objective of the amendment is to update the provisions on hunting. Unfortunately, at this stage, I have to say that this objective is not going to succeed or, at least, remains a torso in this respect. The proposal contains a lot of changes. It is argued, among other things, that the Ministry could in future limit the hunting of a particular species by setting a catch quota per hunter. There is also a desire to add a clause on the obligation to report catches. For example, the article would apply to the hunting of wild boar. At the moment, I believe that wild boar hunting should be favoured by all possible means. The spread of swine fever through wild boar to Finland would destroy Finnish pig production. In addition to restrictions and reporting obligations, the purpose of the proposal is to allow small cervids and wild boar to be hunted with a spring weapon. I think this is a good and timely change. I also consider it justified that a man hunting a white-tailed deer or wild boar with a spring gun should carry out a shooting test. According to Article 21 of the hunting law, which is already in force at the moment, only those who have carried out the shooting test may be allowed to take part in the hunting of the six deer, the German deer, the Japanese deer, the deer, the deer, the terrible white-tailed deer, the deer or the bear with the slinged bullet gun, so that this shooting test for the archer is justified in this regard. At the same time, however, the danger of wild boar should also be understood when it is wounded. There is a desire to amend the provision on the transport of a hunting weapon in such a way that in future a separate permit issued by the police would not have to be applied for. The purpose of the Act is to record in detail the cases in which the transport of a firearm would be permitted. This is a good change and makes it easier to carry a hunting weapon even for a disabled hunter in a wheelchair. Of course, it has been possible to obtain permission in the past through the Finnish game centre, but honestly and with experience I can say that it has been very difficult and bureaucratic to obtain the permit. I believe that a person travelling in a wheelchair, especially when it is equipped with that engine, could automatically be granted this licence to carry a gun when he has a so-called ‘invasion parking permit’ and clearly has to use a wheelchair or similar motorised means of transport when hunting. That would be part of the red tape. According to the proposal, attracting large predators with food and waste is to be prohibited, but business activities created by photography and viewing allow. There is no ban on baiting small predators with food in the motion. At present, only Article 33(2) of the Hunting Act provides for waste management and the use of a food inducer. There are no other provisions in the Hunting Act to attract large predators. Article 33 of the Hunting Act was reformed during the previous parliamentary term. In the explanatory statement of the Law there is a record of food baits — cereals fields, game fields, game pastures — which makes it very difficult to comply with the law in hunting: You can start hunting a bear from a grain field, but you must not shoot a bear in a grain field from which the harvest is not yet harvested. From the game pasture, the game field or their proximity to the bear hunt shall not be initiated. It is interpreted by law as the use of a food inducer. For example, a dog may not know this. The dog walks its own paths and may just as easily find the bear’s trail near the field, and the bear gets shot further away from the field, but the hunter is easily guilty of a hunting crime. In hunting the bear there are often hunting grounds where there are grain fields, game pastures and game fields within short distances. In such an area, bear hunting is unnecessarily difficult under current legislation, and this should be corrected during the examination of this government proposal. One of the main problems with bear hunting is that this proximity to game pasture or game field is not specifically restricted by the hunting law or regulation. So is the proximity 50 or 500 meters or something else? In some provinces, local police are asked to interpret. Even if the police have never hunted, he must give this decision when asked — even if the police are not a lawmaker. However, in the event of a potential hunting crime, the police are both the instigator and the perpetrator of the pre-trial investigation. The police may give a different answer to hunters when asking for metrics in each province because they do not have separate instructions for interpretation. This is not in line with the principles of equality and equity of hunters. I'd also say it's a good idea not to have just anyone with a camera. The permit should be directly linked to the proportion of the net sales of the imaging waste in the total turnover of the person. For example, whether it is 30% or 50% of total turnover, it is up to Parliament to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u202	Mr President! The Government proposes a number of amendments to the hunting law to be supported, and in particular I would like to focus on the positive nature of the proposal and the willingness to develop as far as spring hunting is concerned. In other words, the right to spring hunting would be extended to larger game and, at the same time, a shooting test requirement would be imposed for such hunting. I have not actually been hunting springs myself, but as an archery expert, I would say that we in Finland have been lagging behind for years in matters related to spring hunting. It still remains to be developed in the sense that it is difficult to understand how a deer or a bear with a bow falls about twice as large in America, but in Finland they would be so tough that they cannot still be hunted. In any case, however, this bill will lead to a better cause for spring hunting and we must therefore support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u203	Mr President! The aim of the bill is to update the hunting law. I think it is important and desirable to bring the current hunting law, which has been left behind, into line with today's needs. Here's a score for the government. There are many good and worthy points on which I would like to highlight the two most important points. The first clear improvement compared to current practice is to clarify the legal framework for transporting a hunting weapon on the terrain in a motorised vehicle. According to modern practice, if a hunter dumps a moose or a bear far off the road and this animal is picked up by a tractor or a rover, the animal feller will have to walk after a motorized vehicle and not board it. If a hunter wants to travel along the side of the road on the same ride as the animal he fell, he must leave his hunting weapon in the terrain next to the animal’s landfill. The hunter and the gun shall not be present at the same time in an on-road motorised vehicle. Of course, this is in no way sensible. It is irresponsible to leave a gun out of the country just because you can travel by vehicle to the roadside along with your prey. If this bill is implemented, it will also make sense to use it in this area. The hunter may also board a motorised vehicle on the terrain with his gun when it is fetching a hunting catch, or when experiencing a live trap or footline. The law would still not allow a hunting weapon to be carried by a motorised vehicle anywhere and in any way. Another clear improvement is the addition of deer, white-tailed deer, boar and mufloni to the list of animals already being hunted by spring. As a gunhunter myself, I value spring hunting very high. The use of spring for hunting can only be achieved by well-known living habits of the animals to be hunted, and the catch levels are low. Hunting with a bow is also safer than a gun gun, for an arrow rarely flies as far as a shotgun or a bullet. The so-called rear danger areas remain completely non-existent compared to gunpowder. I also think that this is an excellent reform of the hunting law. In contrast to the very good and worthy points in the draft law, there are some points which concern me and at least question me. Based on the feedback I received from the hunters, I am not alone with my thoughts. The bill prohibits the use of food bait in bear hunting. By banning the use of a food propellant, large predators would not get used to the smell of human beings when visiting the terrain with man - made skitters. For the first impression, the idea seems very logical. When considering a little longer, the question may change: how does a bear distinguish, who has brought to the terrain the perchous waste of rainbow trout — has the importer had a camera bag or a gun on his shoulder? According to my understanding, the container is not able to separate from the scavenger, except that man is accursed waste or a pig’s carcasses from the ground. If the animal is fed by a man - made scavenger, I do not care who makes it, the photographer or the hunter. As far as I am concerned, it should be prohibited for everyone to make a challenge, or also allowed to be used in hunting. There must be a clear and clear line here. It is very difficult for me to understand that the photographer is allowed to ship pig carcasses off the ground, but the hunter is not allowed. It is very difficult to monitor the hunting of bears around, around and in between. If it were allowed to hunt against a food bully, there would also be no problem with supervision. Similarly, if there were no waste in the terrain, there would also be no difficulty in interpreting the use of a food inducer. When the goal is to prevent animals from reaching out to human settlements, at least I think that if the animal is cut off from the waste, at least the animal will no longer be taken into the habitation. I also believe that an animal will learn to be careful of the sutures and hence of the smell of humans if another animal falls when the animal is wasted next to it. So - called barbarism and thus tenderness to seek human settlements quickly spreads to animals. Either—or, but nothing in between. This is the opinion of many hunters. Mr President! Nor do I consider it necessary to extend the current reporting of catches. Many people carry bonus cards from different retail chains in their wallets that show where they bought what they bought and where they went. I do not think it is a good idea to impose an obligation on hunters to indicate how many rabbits have shot or how many birds have been caught. I do not want to add a culture of guardianship to the hunters, as it is already quite unreasonable elsewhere. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u204	Mr President! Thank you for this proposal, there are a number of good points here, but there are a few that I would particularly like to draw attention to now. The first point to which I really pay attention is this Article 34a. In other words, it is prohibited to deliberately attract these species using food to improve the control of the hunting of bears, wolves, gluttons and lynx. Good for you, but then this 3rd paragraph: "A company whose business is a nature photography and viewing activity, the quality or activity of which is listed in the trade register, is allowed to keep on the terrain a food incentive to attract a bear, wolf, gluttony and lynx." I cannot accept this violation of the natural balance. In this mix completely natural biodiversity, natural normal life and balance. How can we really protect nature and the environment in this way, giving nature to bears, wolves, wolverines to attract food and then go photographing this matter? This is truly a complete violation of natural conditions. This is particularly bad in the reindeer care area. We have discussed many times in this Chamber the compensation of predatory damage, but then, however, is given this kind of opportunity for waste photography. There may be between 20 and 30 different bears in the best places who are there to waste their food eating them. What's going on? A lot of reindeer die nearby, reindeer are hammerless, for surely these bears eat much more than those sharks and they eat all the other wildlife from that environment. Is this what we want to do in Finland? We really want to break the conditions of nature, and the worst thing about this is that many conservationists, nature activists, still support and support this action, which is such a serious violation of the natural situation. Here's this part. Then the second point in this law is this carriage of a weapon, § 35. The law in force authorises, by decree of the Government, the transport of a reindeer husband carrying out reindeer husbandry work. This authorisation rule would be repealed, but the reindeer husband who performed reindeer husbandry would in future be considered to meet another acceptable criterion, so that the Finnish game centre, at the proposal of the reindeer host of the Paliskunta, will in future grant a reindeer husbandage permit to drive a hunting weapon on the terrain by means of a motorised vehicle. I like the sound of this. Hopefully, this will also be made to play and work in such a way that the issue of the transportation of weapons by reindeermen will be flexible in the future and then really reduce the unnecessary bureaucracy that has been with this issue at the moment. I hope it's a game. I was specifically told by one reindeer host that say that these greetings go forward in that Chamber, that how important it is to make this run smoothly. Then I will raise the issue of what is most important for the municipality of Savukoski, namely Article 8 of the Hunting Act. It didn't come to this law. Article 8 informs the municipality of residence that a person who has a municipality of residence in the province of Lapland or Kainuu or in the municipality of Pudasjärvi, Kuusamo or Taivalkoski has the right to hunt in national parks. But now the municipality of Savukoski has written such an official letter and a wish that something should be done with this. In other words, the municipality of residence law has changed and the municipality of Savukoski finds that the possibility provided by the changed municipality of residence law to change municipality of residence even several times during the year has been exploited in hunting on state soils. Local residents have been granted the right to hunt in the UK Park area once the national park has been established. The right to hunt is one form of compensation for the disadvantages caused by UK Park for local people. During the past autumn there have been sightings of previously unknown hunters in the UK Park area, who have, however, presented themselves as locals. These are obviously people who do not actually live in Savukoski but who have changed their books to Savukoski during the chicken bird hunt. This situation should be corrected by amending Section 8 of the Hunting Act to reflect the provisions of Section 5.1 of the Tax Procedures Act. In this case, the right to hunt on state land would be determined according to the last calendar day of the year. Therefore, if a person were registered on the last day of the year, for example in Savukoski, he would be entitled to hunt at Savukoski at the beginning of the following year. In this way, the loophole resulting from the change in the Local Government Act could be closed. What's this all about? This may sound like a good idea for hunting tourists. But the municipality of Savukoski is the one of the hunting grounds where there are the most willing visitors. It will take half a minute for all permits to be sold to the Savukoski state countries, that is to say, they would be willing to come more and, indeed, they would like to be a smoker when these hunting licenses start to live. But for local residents that hunting right, the local special right, is really important and big. It has been fought in such a way that there is even something, because there is not so much of a hobby there. If it were to be accessible to all, as it is now possible to exploit the situation through abuse of the Law of Local Government, then this justification would also be out of place for the locals, and the limited rights and opportunities that we have in particular must be sacred, and we must respect them and act accordingly. It is a pity that we did not yet get it on the road to this draft law, but I hope that it will come to the committee on this issue that something can be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u205	Mr President! The aim of the proposed amendment to the hunting law now under discussion is to update the rules on hunting, and that is a good thing. The shooting test in Finland has been mandatory for deer hunters since 1959. The experiment has been developed a lot over the years, and now there is a need for a new change. Now the change is about spring hunting, which has increased its popularity somewhat at the pace of spring development. In the future, it will also be possible to hunt larger game with effective springs, and therefore the regulation of the hunting law on the shooting test needs to be changed, taking into account the hunting of springs, so that a person hunting with a spring gun must also carry out a shooting test before hunting large game animals. I think this is a good performance. So far, the duty to test a gun has been to hunt with a threaded gun. I also welcome the fact that the provisions relating to the fishing authorisation, the catch authorisation procedure for cervids and the general management of the hunt are specified in this proposal. Mr President! The provision on the transport of a hunting weapon is supplemented by this proposal. The current law prohibits the transport of weapons by motorised vehicles on the terrain and is out of date. Representative The angle here well described the fact that these changes allow, for example, motorised wheelchairs or other transportation aids to carry a gun on the ground. As the average age of hunters rises, such a change is obviously necessary and does not break the spirit of the old law. It's just that time has changed and the hunterry has aged. Mr President! Most importantly, these changes are intended to enter into force mainly as early as 1 August 2017, which means that they will already have an impact on the next hunting season.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u206	Mr President! Let me pick up a little more where I left off in my first speech. In accordance with Article 27 of the Hunting Act, the granting of a permit for the catching of deer shall be subject to the condition that the applicant has access to a single area suitable for hunting, the area of which shall be at least 1000 hectares for elk and 500 hectares for other elk animals. Derogations from the requirements for areas and coherence may be made under the provisions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Under the legislation in force, hunting for white-tailed deer is subject to a fishing permit, a shooting test, a hunting director and an orange or red-orange vest and hat, and at least that 500 hectares unitary area I mentioned earlier. In southern and western Finland in particular, uniform hunting grounds are small and hunting is therefore impossible, even though white-tailed deer populations are very abundant. The abundance of the species is also seen as deer cola in traffic. On the other hand, I am well aware of this policy, but it only favours hunting clubs and has forgotten a single hunter who is not part of the hunting club. We must remember that the hunter still has freedom of association in Finland and still has the opportunity to hunt. Why should I not hunt a white-tailed deer in two separate 400 hectares of land on my own land, which is a species of deer that does not belong to the original nature of Finland? A species of animals currently around 60000 to 70000 in Finland and with an average annual catch of around 20000. What makes this so different that in the future, for example, I could not safely shoot it out of a deer tower in a single 400-hectare area? The requirement for a large unitary hunting area puts landowners and hunting associations in an unequal position. In accordance with the lease agreements, the Hunting Association may have large areas at its disposal, but it does not necessarily accept new members and does not agree to a joint authorisation procedure with private landowners. A landowner with a single area of less than 500 hectares is not entitled to catch permits even if the white-tailed deer stock is strong in the area and the granting of fishing authorisations would otherwise be justified. The single area of landowners not included in the joint permit may therefore be too small, making the area unfit for hunting whitetails, even if the total area of the holding consisting of separate parcels exceeds the required quantity of 500 hectares. I believe that the requirement for a single area is justified in the case of elk, but not in the case of other elk. This requirement should be removed for white-tailed deer. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal states that, as such development becomes more common, it would make it difficult for organised hunting and hunting clubs to organise the taxation of deer populations in a systematic and secure manner. "The removal of the 500 hectares and the requirement for a single area would lead to a sharp increase in Mr President! If this requirement for a single area of 500 hectares is maintained for a white-tailed deer, this bill will remain a torso and will not help remind us that Finland will be 100 years old this year, and we must all have equal hunting rights, whether we belong to the hunting club or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u207	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the hunting law under consideration is very timely and important. It is worth remembering that hunting is a very important hobby for many Finns. It is an ancient right that Finns have had, to enjoy the forest's yield by hunting, by acquiring game. Today's hunting in Finland has been made a very dubious hobby in some circles, some even see it as a forbidden hobby, but in my opinion it is a very strong part of Finnish culture, and hunting is very good and very worthwhile as one of the multiple uses of forests. It offers many enthusiasts very pleasant moments in the Finnish forest and, above all, gives them the opportunity to break away from the routines of busy life for a while. This bill updates a number of objectives that will be translated into this legislative proposal. For example, the regulation of the shooting test will be changed to facilitate the work of game management associations to organise these demanding tests. The administrative burden associated with this will be reduced and at the same time correspond to the government's objective of dismantling red tape. Archery hunting is permitted by this bill for several species of game. It also brings reforms to the requirements so that a hunter who pursues spring hunting has to take a shooting test. So the situation is not wild, but he has to give evidence that he knows how to hunt. Here I was thinking to myself that if we go very far in this spring hunt and go hunting a bear with a bow, then it's got a real feeling of hunting, because it's already a challenge. Even in science, this law does not yet allow it, but it could probably be some kind of extreme in the future. The implementation of the moose management plan will be facilitated, the authorisation procedure will be facilitated. In my opinion, one of the best points of this bill is that the joint authorisation procedure is taken directly into the law. This joint authorisation procedure has been successfully carried out together by various hunting clubs. It's done a very good job. For example, it has been possible to handle the wounded moose in the area of the neighboring hunting association in style once joint permits have been agreed. It has avoided many embarrassing situations and many police investigations have been avoided when the law is working in this regard; or the practice has been good and effective so far, but now it is being taken into the law, and it will then be a permanent and very useful way. Mr President! Finally, the use of food inducers. In my view, this proposal to ban the use of food inducers is very good and to be welcomed. What is happening in the forests of Finland at the moment is very sad. From a very large number of sources there are daily messages that there have been more and more rainstorms in the forests. I'm sure many of them are made for photography, I don't know if there's a lot for hunting, I don't know about that. In any case, the use of food lures or sutures is banned in this country, that is very good. In this connection, I will take two examples that I have had to follow closely. The second is from my region, where there are a huge number of sharks in a small area, these food charms, and there are so many bears and wolves in that area that it is beginning to be very dangerous for many of the weaker spirits, who are a little afraid of dark places and forest animals, and I think it is simply because of these hags. The fact that those waste is removed is a very good thing. Another issue that is even more serious is Kuhmo, where there is a waste in one area held by one of the field agents of the Natural Resources Centre. I don't remember his name, but he works at the Natural Resources Agency. The gentleman in question has to waste and photograph these great beasts in the same area, but at the same time he has an influence on the skihouses in this area. I have lodged a complaint with the Parliamentary Ombudsman about the activities of this person. In my opinion, it cannot be that the same person who is the field champion in the region bans and gives statements on applications for permits for hunters, and once he gives a negative opinion on applications for licences, he himself must game and describe the same wolves in that area. This is extremely reprehensible. Now I remember his name, Seppo Ronkainen. I believe that this action should be addressed. I have made a complaint to the Ombudsman about this, and I wonder that it has not been there for a year and a half yet. I believe that the solution will come soon. Mr President! It is a serious matter when an authority does this, that it itself participates in the procedure for granting authorisations by issuing opinions, that it itself must be wasted and even where it should not be kept, and then does it as a business, a civil servant. I find it extremely reprehensible. As a Member of Parliament, I am very surprised that this kind of activity is allowed in Finland and that the authorities will not interfere with it. I find this quite incomprehensible. I expect action to be taken here and immediately. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u208	Mr President! Here we are dealing with the amendment of the hunting law, and at least within the framework of this government's proposal I received citizens' feedback on two issues. For one thing, in Kuhmo, bears are hunted and there may be hundreds of people under the leadership of the hunt. And now that the law has become mandatory for a hunter, who will then take responsibility if there are hundreds of people there? There might be some trouble finding someone like that. Of course, there is a mention here that a sufficient number of assistant directors can be taken, but apparently the practice shows what this will mean. Another feedback came of course from the fact that now that the law allows this kind of professional description, which describes bears, large predators, wolves, so it includes such a problem that if the same pack of wolves goes there in the description constantly eating, then it is easy to game. In a way, then, these wolves get used to the smell of man, and it is possible that in time these same wolves will go around in those courtyards. This, too, must be recognized that the great beasts are, in principle, the inhabitants of wilderness areas and the timid ones. And in that way, if they get too used to a person, it becomes a problem, whether it be wolves or bears. But one thing that was mentioned here, Mrs Maijala raised an important issue in my opinion, is this free hunting right under Section 8 of the Hunting Act in Lapland and Kainuu and in certain municipalities. I have nothing against it, and I believe that it has come and must be defended in due course. In my opinion, it should also be stated in a broad sense. I do not think it should be a gimmick either, because I have a fairly fair view of things, and then we would have to wonder when we should be on the books. That if you accept the fact that you vary from books to books many times a year and are entitled to hunt: in my opinion it is not right. And the Tenojoki Agreement, which was concluded now, was approved in Parliament between Norway and Finland, has to live there the previous year for seven months and then be on the tax books at the beginning of January to get the right. Then another thing I'm a little upset about is that in some way we have a pretty strong anti-hunting attitude in this society. Somehow these people who practice that anti-hunting activity do not themselves live in the areas where people often practice this culture with their dogs. And these opportunities for hunting have been very strongly influenced, especially for dogs, by our flawed predator policy, which then shoots the wolf, shoots from there or here, and leaves these herds there to spin. This is going nowhere. This has only led to the fact that everyone is fighting with each other: the villagers and the police and the scientists and the Border Guard. In my opinion, if that is the intention, then this wolf policy and predatory policy will be an excellent success. Everyone is fighting each other, no one is happy, and animal cruelty is being added to the market in such a way that every other wolf will soon be able to pass shotguns in the fur. If that is what you think, someone here thinks it is a fine predatory policy, then I do strongly disagree. And I think that this predator policy should be dealt with in such a way that whole herds are removed instead of shooting an individual from the herds from here and removing the herds that actually cause problems, eat dogs and prevent people from hunting. Another problem related to hunting is that in Eastern Finland and elsewhere, these hunting opportunities continue to deteriorate because of this predator problem, people cannot hunt in dogs. And many of the game associations have already announced the release of aid for large-scale game, which is a very serious matter for people to abandon cooperation with the police. At the latest, we must wake up the parliamentarians and ministers that this cannot continue. But it has also led to a different problem. Now, if these hunting opportunities are weakened in this traditional area and we, or all of us, owning a national park, then it is very difficult for me to understand that this section of the hunting law, the right to hunt, would only apply to the locals. So they would be allowed to hunt for free, but then those from elsewhere who also own government forests would be banned altogether. It does not go to my sense of justice, that one is given more rights as it were, and the other is banned. How can this be done? This comes up in the Hossa National Park case, that when the government's proposal, in the former good permit areas of Metsähallitus, where the national park is established, more than 11,000 hectares, began to give the locals the right to free hunting without restrictions and others, but then others, foreign residents who have been allowed to hunt until now, when it is difficult in many places in their own areas, would be denied them. But I thank the Central Party, the Finns and the National Coalition Party. In its opinion, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry raised this problem and reached a fine solution, in which the Christian Democrats and the RKP also agreed that Metsähallitus should be responsible for hunting in such a way that, of course, the locals are allowed free of charge, but then the residents of the out-of-town areas will be allowed to pay for it, in which case they will be in an equal and equal situation. I do not believe that the construction of a national park where Finns are set against each other is the present day. In this way, it would be great to have a great cooperation and a good approach to this Hossa national park that promotes the hunting culture of Kainuu, as outlined by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u209	Mr President! I am not taking a position on this issue at this stage in the Hossa National Park, because we have it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in an incomplete situation. We have had a preparatory debate on it, and then we will have a detailed discussion of it in the near future, and we will discuss it after this matter is in the Chamber. But then I will go back to the waste description and the use of the waste in the illustration, that is, this Article 34a(3) of the Hunting Act. Here the explanatory statement reads such a text: "As large predators have already been described and viewed in Finland, there should be provision for the continuation of this business activity, since the scope of the hunting law does not permit the prohibition of such activities. The purpose would be to provide in paragraph 3 that, without prejudice to paragraph 1, an undertaking whose business in the business register is nature photography and viewing activities could keep on the terrain a food incentive to attract a bear, wolf, gluttony and lynx." I do now appeal to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You are now opening up a whole new entity. At the moment, we are really working to rationalise Finland's predatory policy. This will increase the problem of predators. Do you want us to increase the problems of predators in Finland? This really only adds to this. If you want to photograph the bears, wolves, wolverines, lynx, then it must be filmed and fed specifically in a zoo, but in nature the animals must be as normal in nature. This depiction of bears, especially in the reindeer herding area, can be compared to the fact that there is already a business activity, that when these bears are currently in the reindeer herding area in the middle of the reindeer herding area and eat reindeer, they are approved. Well, let's do a job like that, that even if I start doing this kind of children's tag-playing business, I'd take those kids to the grain field to play. I would simply say that it is a legitimate business, that playing with children is a legitimate activity, that I play with those children in a grain field. It happens that the grain field goes into the barn and can't be used and that's a problem, but so what? So we are in such a serious situation now that we can accept any business in the sense that OK, that is business. This is really such a serious issue, whether or not this kind of business activity in Finland is really allowed to hinder the business of others, to damage Finland's predatory policy and to make the situation really difficult. You are now in a very demanding situation in that committee. I wonder if no natural person will get his hair on when we are making our wild animals into bun ducks with dog food buttons. Where are our organic bears, our organic wolves and our organic gluttons? Yes, I am surprised at the modern people who allow wild nature to be ruined in this way. And what about reindeer husbandry in the wasteland? Why is such a thing allowed, even proposed, to be allowed before the matter has been properly investigated and the effects of the matter are known? Indeed, this issue should be properly clarified. In my opinion, no natural research has been carried out on this issue, the impact this has on the environment. Now we are going to take a decision without proper investigation and investigation into this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u210	Mr President! There has been an interesting debate, and although it is not really about Hossa, I cannot bear to say a few words about it because it was discussed in previous speeches. I fully agree with the representatives of Eestilä and Maijala that Article 8 of the Hunting Act, the free hunting right, is excellent. The intention is precisely, at least in my opinion, that we citizens must have equal rights and equal obligations, and our representatives here in Parliament, when we legislate, should take account of the fact that we do not put citizens in a position of inequality in terms of rights and obligations. For example, when Hossa is a centenary national park founded in Finland for the sake of 100 years of independence, I think that now, if ever, on this matter, we must not divide citizens into goats and sheep or grain and chaff, so that others have better rights than others, but it is here that we must assume that everyone is equally represented. In my opinion, it is a good illustration of Finland's 100-year-old history that we are finally and finally equal in all matters. - So much for Hossa. In my opinion, Mr Hoskonen gave an excellent witness to the problems caused by the conflicts, and in the first speeches I too took a stand on the food inducers, namely the construction of the suspense, and I said that this is a either-or-or-case situation. It is incredibly difficult to understand that some people have the right to set up the terrain and some other people must not put them there. Article 34a of the bill states: "In particular, hunting for a bear has increased in recent years by attracting bears to a specific location before the start of the hunting season. When such food baits are removed before the hunt begins, there is no direct crime of hunting. This kind of activity, however, puts hunting groups in an unequal position, for not everyone has adopted this kind of activity in the grey zone. For the sake of clarity, therefore, it would be appropriate to prohibit any deliberate feeding of the bear and other great beasts." Here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is either—or. The bill assumes that everything should be banned. Another option is that we should then also allow the food charmer to ask for the animal. If we consider the fact that a bear or wolf, any great beast, comes to the food lure and starts to be removed from it, they will not last very long with the food lure, or no one uses the food charms, neither the photographers nor any other. I am still surprised at the arguments in this bill when it says that "because there has already been a business activity in Finland to describe and view large predators, this business should continue." Mrs Maijala raised this point in her own speech. When I listened to Mrs Maijala's speech, I wondered whether, when it was specifically about the right of people specialising in photography to use a food inducer, it would be excluded if the hunter set up a food inducer and told me that he would set it up for the purpose of filming. I would also like to refer to my first speech, in which I said that it is extremely difficult, legally and legally, to organise the hunting of a bear between the food lures, alongside and alongside them. When there are food lures in and out of the country, it is extremely difficult to hunt in such a way as not to break the letter of the law in exploiting the food lure, either intentionally or unintentionally. That is why, Mr President, we in the committee must pay particular attention to the fact that, when this food inducer is discussed, I know that there are a large number of hunters who accept the use of food baits in hunting, and accordingly there are people who do not accept it, but we will have a difficult choice when we deal with this in committee in due course. With these speeches, Mr President, for my part, I would like to thank the Members for their attention and I hope for a good debate. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u211	Mr President! I would also like to raise one point here, namely spring hunting. That is what I personally have been driving, that the game selection is expanding as far as spring hunting is concerned. This is where Mr Hoskonen raised the issue of bear hunting with a bow. If we go to other countries and continents, it is quite possible on the American continent, as is the hunting of the moose. And so is alligator hunting, even to elephants. In other words, the power of the spring gun is sufficient for game like game, species like species, so it could be possible to get away from these artificial game restrictions. It is true that there are certain risks for a bear, for example, but there are special requirements for beaver hunting with a bow. So these can be built on a species-by-species basis, if that's what you want. The bow as such does not limit anything. Mr Kulmala raised the issue of the prevalence of this white-tailed deer and, in this context, the requirement of 500 hectares. That is also one of the points worth considering in committee. But either way, I have been passionate about this issue of spring hunting, and now I am very pleased that this is progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u212	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to thank Mr Eestilä for his excellent speech just now and especially on the point where he raised this issue at the Hossa National Park. Although it has nothing to do with the discussion of this bill as such, I am definitely in favour of his idea as an alternate member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, that hunting work there must be managed in such a way that the locals are, of course, entitled to it, it is obvious, and then, for these other Finns who go there, let it be considered by Metsähallitus as to how the game stock lasts. But when it is a national park, all Finns must be treated equally. And then to this point, Mr President: With regard to these waste disposals, the use of food baits in hunting, I strongly believe that it must be totally banned in this country. On the surface of the eastern border, even in my municipality and nearby areas, there are many, many food inducers. There are huge numbers of wolves in these areas, huge numbers of bears, the situation is out of control. And the worst part is that wolves, bears, gluttons, lynxes are used to easy food, and that has caused problems: these wolves and bears come to the courtyards to seek food if the natural food is scarce in the forest. In other words, I believe that we must act logically when dealing with wild animals in the wild. They may live there in complete peace, but let man not go in there and hoove in the woods with food charms. And to that end, Mr President, I raised the issue of the Kuhmo case: The official of the Natural Resources Agency himself must be wasted and the basis is a research waste. I just got some pictures and a statement of reasons in my e-mail. The official in question is carrying out a research waste there, and then it is photographed — it is sold to tourists on tours and the photographers will probably receive some compensation to be allowed to take pictures of wild animals there. In my view, such an activity by a Finnish official who receives a salary from the Finnish State is highly reprehensible. And the Ombudsman, or who is responsible for monitoring and acting on such a matter, must act as quickly as possible. I will not put any particular pressure on the Ombudsman to ensure that the decision is taken tomorrow. That investigation must take its time, but the decision must come within a reasonable period of time, because at the same time it affects the statements of the person concerned about skis, the authorisations granted to that area, so here In the Kuhmo area as well as in Upper Savo, for example in Vieremaa, where the wolf situation is completely out of control. It is indeed such a serious situation that life there seems to be less than the life of a wolf, and it is because of this very person and similar, like - minded people that this situation has taken place. And that includes, as an integral part, the ban on food inducers in this government proposal, and it must come into force completely. I think that this current expenditure in Finland is totally unacceptable. It has to stop once and for all, so that we actually get into organic practice with regard to wild animals. Let domestic animals be fed in the home circle, and let them be well cared for there, but it does not apply to wild animals living in the wild, not under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u213	Mr President! In my view, it is important to raise the issue in this House that if we are here to promote confrontation — and hunting is today one that divides people, others try to protect, others want to hunt, and there are huge disputes — I feel that we parliamentarians and legislators have actually failed in some way. It is not a question of pointing a finger at a person or blaming him, but this is not how far we can go. If we do laws here in such a way that when any group of the population feels that rights are being taken away from them, they are being given to someone in one law and another law, then in a few years we will end up in such a situation that we will not be able to control these things. I want people to respect the laws in Finland and here respect equality and equality and owners to be treated in the same way. It has always been Finland's strength that people trust others and people trust the institution. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not break this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u214	Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that I thank you for the clear support for the complete ban on waste disposal under natural conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-06-ps-36.u215	Mr President! As far as these photocassages are concerned, I have spent a couple of nights on this kind of photocassage and it is very interesting not to know where the bear or wolf might come from, but I really do not think it makes sense that these photocassages are everywhere in the province. Of course, I wouldn't be completely denying them, because it's a livelihood for someone like someone else. But it's obvious that, for example, when bear hunting starts on August 20th and it's known that somewhere around here there's a shoot-threshold, it's where the hunt begins, not far from the shoot-threshold. Even this filming waste, where I went, had been visited by eight bears just the day before, so that it really collects those bears and herds of wolves. You could talk about wolves in the foam of your mouth for several days. I really do not believe that the wolf problems will change for us as long as we have these officials, who are currently deciding on these issues, are working. As far as spring hunting is concerned, I could say to Mr Jalos that it is a very good thing that he has taken this matter forward. I'm also a bow hunter myself, and I've shot a lot of raccoons and so on, but I wouldn't go hunting a bear with a bow, because I'd be nervous about it. I've been hunting bears myself, and I'm not going there with a bow unless there's someone with a rifle to make sure that that arrow I shot with a bow really does kill that bear. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry made an excellent opinion on this issue in Hossa. It did not reduce or increase anyone's right to hunt, but unfortunately our statement did not matter very much, because it went to the Environment Committee here and they walked over us when we got there, so that it was professional.
