ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u2	Mr President! This government proposal relates not only to administrative reforms but also to the deletion of the reference to the Sami people in accordance with the Sámi District Act, and this definition has been controversial for a long time. What is essential is that the services are provided by the person who experiences the Sami language as his mother tongue. It is therefore essential to safeguard linguistic and cultural rights. Without language there is no culture and without the livelihoods that safeguard traditional livelihoods and the form of life there will soon be neither language nor culture. In this respect, the government has not acted in accordance with the arguments and objectives of this government’s proposal. If you remember what happened in the Fishing Act, the Metsähallitus Act and the Tenojoki Agreement, they all reduced the rights and living space of the Sami people. In addition, some municipalities have pointed out that the objectives of the law are met because the resources allocated to the municipalities are too small. The obligations are clear, but there are not enough chips in all municipalities. It is also essential to remember that the Sami people live very much away from the Sámi region and that it would be extremely important to be able to support the teaching of Sámi-speaking people, for example through language nesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u3	Mr President! In the Constitution, we regulate the right of different language groups to maintain their own language and culture. As required by the Constitution and international treaties binding on Finland, the Finnish Language Act guarantees the right of the Sami people to maintain and develop their language and culture and to use their own Sami language, inarisam, koltansaam or northern Sami in a court and other authority. Finland’s national legislation and international human rights conventions oblige the authorities to enforce the rights of the Sami people, especially those related to language and culture, so that the rights of the Sami people are realised on an equal footing with all population groups. It is now proposed to amend the Sámi Language Act as a result of the regional reform and the reform of the organisation of social welfare and health care. The amendment of the law is necessary in order not to weaken the linguistic rights of the Sami people in connection with the reform of the social welfare and regional authorities. In organising the administration, account must be taken of the fundamental linguistic rights laid down in Article 17 of the Constitution. In this preparatory phase, it has been considered appropriate to make the necessary technical amendments to this Language Act as required by the reform of social welfare and regional development. The Sámi Language Act applies to all tasks of public authority which belong to the authorities referred to in the Act. The law maintains the principle that the Sami people have a wider right to speak the Sami language in their own region. The amendments proposed in the proposal would therefore mean that the provisions of the Sámi Language Act would also apply to the provinces, in particular the Province of Lapland. The starting point and aim is to ensure that linguistic rights are not undermined even if tasks are transferred to the new provincial council. The law will also be updated, i.e. changes in the authorities and other legislation following the entry into force of the Sámi Language Act have been taken into account in this proposal. In addition, the reference to the Sámi law on the definition of Sámi would be deleted as set out in the Constitutional Committee's report of 12/2014. So this is the will of Parliament and the will of the Constitutional Committee. On the basis of the feedback received from the consultation and the consultations with the Sámi Parliament, this amendment has been supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u4	Mr President! In this way, on Europe Day, it should be said that the Sámi are the only indigenous people who live in the European Union. Of course, this is an important issue for Finland and we can be very proud of it. The importance of the Sami people for Finland is very important and they play a central role in Finnish culture. It is to be welcomed that the government, in reforming the social and health care system, pays attention to the rights of the Sami people to access services in their native language. As can be seen from the study carried out last year by the Ministry of Justice and the Giellagas Institute of the University of Oulu, the linguistic rights of Sámi speakers are currently poorly realised in Finland. It is to be hoped that the government will continue to pay attention to the availability of Sámi-language services, not just from the point of view of social and health services, but more comprehensively, so that the shortcomings can be remedied and the rights of the Sámi-law to access the service in their own mother tongue are realised. I would like attention to be paid to the opportunities for Sámi-speaking children to use and study languages also outside the Sámi region. It should be noted that about 70% of Sámi children and young people live outside the Sámi region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u5	Mr President! First of all, we must take this opportunity to congratulate the new minister and, at the same time, hope that these Sami issues will now rise quite differently on the Minister of Justice's priority list. The government's proposal is absolutely necessary in order to safeguard the status of the Sámi in this social and regional reform. We know, as the previous speaker said, that these things are not happening at the moment. We do not deal with the Saami position in the way we should. However, the Ministry of Justice has already done a good job here and two years ago, in fact, a preliminary study has been carried out on the wider development needs of the Sámi Language Act. There are many ideas, many different proposals on how to move this issue forward and improve the position of the Sami people. That is why I would ask the Minister of Justice: what is the timetable for taking these other development needs forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u6	Madam President! When the current Sámi language law was laid down in Parliament, the Constitutional Committee then took a firm line that the rights of the Sámi languages should be safeguarded, but at the same time it was stressed that resources should be in place so that the Sámi language can be invested in education, culture and the whole, so that it is not just a hobby language. At the moment, in the case of Sámi languages, the situation is quite interesting in that Finland speaks the most Sámi language, not in the area of Lapland, but in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u9	Madam President! Of course, safeguarding the rights of the Sami people is an honour for us Finns, and this will be taken care of, just as in this social welfare reform. It should always be remembered that when such a small minority people live there in Lapland, in the north, and it is a matter of long distances — there are huge distances and still three different Sami languages — there are difficulties. I am not sure about it, but as I remember it, some of the Sámi speakers do not even talk to each other — I do not remember whether, for example, the Inari Sámi understand the Sámi. In other words, it describes the situation that it is extremely important that the language in this area remains alive. Its teaching and other matters must be organised so well that the language develops and strengthens in that area and the Sámi language remains. It is our Finnish national treasure. When the language is well, people are well and teaching is provided in different educational institutions in their own mother tongue. But it is also important to organise services when there is a long distance area where the best possible result is sought under these conditions, just as in a social welfare solution, that services can be secured across the country. Finland is a country of long distances, and I understand that Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen in this matter, when he is on a demanding task for the Minister of Justice now, will certainly keep this matter of the Sami people warm in mind and importantly on the agenda. Finally, Madam President, I wish the new Minister of Justice the strength and wisdom of the task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u10	Mr President! This is a performance that can indeed be welcomed with joy. I am particularly pleased that the Kolttasáms are involved here, because the Kolttasáms are a minority of the Sámi people and the Kolttasáms have suffered from the status of Minorism, as they always want to be everywhere. It is very important that children receive services in their native language from the earliest age. Day care should be in Sámi so that everyone whose native language is the Sámi language would be entitled to Sámi day care and Sámi school regardless of the status given to the family. This Sámi issue is not yet in the finish line, there is much to do, but it is such a big deal — it is actually based on that big time, and then it comes to this day — and when it comes to power and mammon, we know that it wants to make things difficult and complicated. But it is a very good thing that the Sámi language issue has now been raised. And if the war is now the one opening up this solid knot, then there is one thing that is unquestionably good about this issue of social security, which we will probably be returning to, and we will hear things about it from different sides. As far as I am concerned, there is also a great deal of happiness for the new minister, wisdom in the task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u11	Mr President! It is very important that the rights of the Sámi people and the rights of the Sámi language should now be taken into account, and in that sense the proposal is welcome. Representative Rossi raised an important point. Language is man’s home country in many ways, and an aging person may return to that native language. The Sami people themselves have drawn attention to the fact that when the Nordic borders are close, it would be possible to obtain some social and health services in their own language without an interpreter on the Norwegian side, for example. In this context, could we also consider the possibility of this Nordic cooperation across borders in the field of social and health services? I think we could add this. The second point that has been raised here is that a large proportion of Sámi-speaking people already live outside the traditional Sámi region. At that time, children's language base activities, the right of children to self-language education, learning their own language, are very important and need to be taken into account. And now that the Minister of Justice has taken up his new role, even though I know the guidelines of the Government Programme, I think it is important that the ratification of the Finnish ILO 169 Treaty should be carried forward, however. It is an important objective for the Sami people and it would be very important for the whole of Finland's human rights policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u12	Madam President! From the left side of the hall to the beginning but also from all sides of the hall a fresh minister has been congratulated and commended for taking action so that there is no false image left behind, he must thank the minister from the right side of the hall for taking an active part in the referral debate right here in the Chamber and taking the lead in his own ministries. My warmest congratulations on that. It is also important, the rights of the Sami people and the linguistic rights that have been raised here. One big element here is also that we need to take care of the funding for language centres, to which Mr Haavisto referred above. It has been under little threat for many years, and in the final games, language education for children is the most important base where it begins to learn the language. Mr President! Now that the regional reform has come to the fore, there are many elements in the regional reform that may still require a slight revision. Today, for example, it has emerged that the Regional Law, its Article 6, which lists the tasks for the provinces, does not, for example, take a position at all on recreational associations that do significant work. Since this is a question of regional reform, I thought I would raise it here as well. I hope that in committee, when the various elements of regional reform are now being discussed, these various tasks will be carefully reviewed once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u13	Mr President! I too would like to congratulate the new Minister warmly. Mr President! Regrettably, the Sami people have recently had a cold ride in many legislative proposals: the fall in the ratification of the ILO Convention, the Metsähallitus Act, the Teno Treaty, to name a few. I hope this bill is more positive from the point of view of the Sámi. Mr President! The Sami people are the only indigenous people in Europe, and Finland is responsible for protecting the Sami culture and languages for its part. The language rights of the Sami people outside the home region are an important aspect, just as many speakers have already mentioned, because a large proportion of the Sami people today live outside the northern municipalities, and here the important thing is to secure funding for language nests and other language education. In the context of the social welfare reform, it should be noted that Sámi will continue to receive social services in the Sámi language in their region of origin, even though responsibility is transferred from municipalities to a wider province. This is an important issue especially for elderly services, because it is important for the elderly that services are provided in the home language and in the language most familiar to themselves. Moreover, in this context of social welfare reform and regional reform in general, when it is being built in that province of Lapland, the Sami people must be listened to and involved in the planning of the reform. Mr President! One aspect of this language is also adult language training. It would be important to have resources and resources to train adults in the Sámi language as well, in order to have skilled professionals able to provide services in the Sámi language in various authorities and in various other services, and to enable them to continue their training and to secure the vitality of the Sámi language. I hope that this aspect of adult education will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u14	Mr President! Securing the Saami language is absolutely essential and this government proposal must therefore be supported. Today, there are people who speak the Sami language in different parts of Finland, not just in Lapland. Therefore, the services of those who speak the Sámi language in their own language must be secured, as has been said here. Many congratulations to the new Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u15	Mr President! I share your congratulations to the new Minister: Success and strength in your work! The work portfolio is certainly not the lightest, but I believe you have strong shoulders to carry it. This Sámi language issue: It is very important that it has also been brought here in the form of a government proposal and, as has been said in previous speeches, there have been many complex and difficult issues in this regard. Let us hope that this language issue is something that would proceed with less complexity. This viability of the Sámi language and the development of the language must indeed be safeguarded, not only in the northern regions, but also in order to ensure that the Sámi and Sámi-speaking people have the opportunity, for work and other reasons, to move away from the Sámi language and culture without causing their own language and culture to die as a result if they move away from their native regions. This is why it is important that the Sámi language as a Finnish language is protected and that the services, the visits to schools, the growth and development of the Sámi language are secured also in areas other than the northern regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u16	Mr President! Personally, I will no longer continue the series of congratulations, because I have already done so several times before and after your election, Minister, but I have to say that in February, when I called for a full-time Minister of Justice in the SDP's group speech, I was told from the meeting that the main thing was that it was nevertheless full-headed. Well, now we have a full-headed and full-time day, that is what we hope for here in the opposition, and in that sense congratulations once again! But, Minister, in your opening speech you have said very well what I would like to say that this government proposal has heard Parliament, here we have listened to the Constitutional Committee, to us Members, to what we have said then, that is a big deal. But then I ask you, when it comes to language skills, but also to language education and the future of the Sámi children: have you perhaps discussed in greater depth, for example, with the Ministry of Education and Culture or the Minister for Education, how to improve language training and the development and distribution of language literature among Sámi children? For example, there have been many projects in Kolttasám in this regard, and I am aware that this has progressed well, but could you, Minister, also contribute to the further spread of children's literature?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u17	Mr President! A number of good speeches have been made here on how important and important this is now. Both cultural and linguistic questions have a number And now that the Minister of Justice may have more time to get to grips with and get to grips with these difficult questions of the Sámi people too, there has been a great deal of hope that these difficult places in history could be dealt with and that in Finland this kind of reconciliation and truth commission, of which there have been really good experiences in different parts of the world. And perhaps this would also be a reason for the Minister's reflection; this would be a fine and valuable hand-out for such a centenary year, that it would also be possible to deal with those pains in history and then get them off the ground with reconciliation. This proposal is also very valuable on this road.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u18	Mr President! No language lives by making laws or administrative decisions or by changing the administration. Language culture and livelihoods are seamlessly linked. I think it is essential, according to the definition of culture, that that definition be fulfilled, that it be passed on over a generation, and without language it is not going anywhere. But livelihoods are the basis for livelihoods and for people to be able to live there in the first place. If we look at the industries that are important and which we too must remember to safeguard in this Chamber: fishing, hunting, reindeer husbandry, of course, the collecting economy and also increasingly tourism and batch services. However, if we consider what decisions have been taken here quite recently, last season's fishing law, in particular Lake Inari, has drastically reduced the rights of local people. Similarly, the fishing rights of the tributaries of Teno became subject to payment and authorisation by the local authorities. The Tenojoki decision specifically attacked the ancient fishing practices and rights of the Sami people, both ancient and local. And the Metsähallitus Act led to all forms of money being increased due to over-measured revenue and income targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u19	Madam President! Good luck to you, Minister, for the Minister's work to come on my own behalf. Usually every time these government proposals are discussed here, it's the money we're talking about. And it is great to read about this amendment to the Sámi Language Act, when the economic impact has been assessed, that it is said here that 'there is no significant economic impact'. That is a very good thing, to put it this way. However, the proposal may have some potential costs in terms of translation and interpretation needs, and that is understandable. It is therefore important that the authorities to which this law applies should be prepared to have sufficient funds available for the translation and interpretation of documents in the future, and hopefully this will also be the case. It is very important that every person is understood in the language of his heart, that is, his native language. It is so — whether it's education or culture or it's ageing and, for example, these social services — that the more people age, the more important it becomes that you become understood in your own language. We also have a lot of people with memory problems, especially for them. In that sense, too, it is good that we have this issue on the table here. The proposal is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u20	Minister Häkkänen, no more than 3 minutes from that podium, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u21	Mr President! First of all, I have to say that it was a valuable visit: I visited the UN recently. Among other things, Mr Skinner and other members of the Constitutional Committee were involved, we visited the presentations of experts dealing with the rights of indigenous peoples and the way in which things have been done in other parts of the world, and there was quite a lot to learn and develop and, of course, other countries will certainly learn and develop from us. It's a very valuable trip. Perhaps that will bring us to the big picture of Finland's 100th anniversary that we have the rights of minorities and indigenous peoples in the Constitution, and now our role here in Parliament is, by all possible means, to ensure that these Sami issues are dealt with in the best possible way, so that we also exemplaryly work towards the foreign countries in order to strengthen and support our international human rights profile. So these have spillover effects far beyond just what we do within our own country, and it is not a trivial matter in this world that a strong political message and leadership is being shown on these issues of human rights and the protection of the rights of minorities and indigenous peoples. At the moment, a lot of projects are going on in the direction of the Ministry of Justice and a little wider in relation to the Sami and indigenous rights, all of which will now be examined here in the near future. I want to look at them as a whole and not so that they may fall apart one piece at a time, but even if they may come at a different time in Parliament, we still need to see what the rights of the Sami people are becoming as a whole. Then there were some good questions. For example, how do the rights of the Saami in the south come true? This must now be seen in the context of a somewhat broader reform of the Sámi Language Act. The development needs of the Language Act have been extensively studied and pain points have already been raised in these studies in previous years. It is therefore only because of the regional and social reform that rapid, technical reforms are being carried out in order to maintain rights at the current level when the regional reform comes into force, and then more fundamental reforms will only be carried out later. I will also have a debate with the Ministers for Education and Culture on these language issues, especially the linguistic rights of children. As Mr Heinonen has rightly pointed out here, we must have sufficient resources for these issues and be able to ensure that every child has the rights he deserves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u22	Madam President! Mr Juvone's speech further inspired the view that people have the right to be understood in their own language. For small countries as well as small languages, international agreements are a means of protecting their own identity and their own cultural base, and thus this law, as a language law, is also a step in the right direction to safeguard the linguistic rights of the indigenous people. My speech was at the heart of the law here, and the end of my speech is: Congratulations to the Minister on his new role. It has been a pleasure to know you as a member of the Administrative Committee, and I am counting on the expertise and expertise you have had in the past. I believe that you are doing a fine job of ministering, listening carefully to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u23	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u24	Mr President! The Government proposes that VAT on imports of goods be transferred from Customs to the Tax Administration. This applies to undertakings registered in the register of persons liable for VAT. I mean, according to the show, right? Customs will continue to be responsible for the taxation of imports of goods if the importer is a private individual or an entity not listed in the VAT register and continues to be responsible for criminal investigations and controls. I think this is a good performance. It would focus tax delivery more clearly on the tax administration. The impact on businesses is also positive: they can handle all VAT-related issues through a single procedure with one authority, which will facilitate the management and monitoring of tax matters. So: reform can be welcomed because it facilitates the procedure for both public authorities and taxpayers and allows for administrative savings. The SDP supported the transfer of product and car taxation from Customs to the Tax Administration from the beginning of this year. The transfer sought the same benefits as this presentation. What is essential is that this proposal does not pose a significant threat to the growth of the black economy. Action against the shadow economy is important and all decisions relating to taxation must take this into account. This also applies, of course, to the management register, which, to my surprise, has left today's agenda. It is quite a wonderful thing that this dim register, which rises and falls all the time, appears and disappears as in Irvik. After all, the government is like Alice in Wonderland, so it does fit in with this sort of thing in Irvik, which always comes and fades without warning. Now it would be nice to hear if perhaps some of my colleagues in Finland could say: Why — if you have information — is this matter out of order? What has led to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u25	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u26	Värderade fru talman! Den kort men innehåller liikälä en valdig viktig förändring för att tillgodose tillgången av läkare, i synnerhet på Åland. Syftet med propositionen är att personer som avlagt grundexamen i medicinalin i en EU-eller EES-stat där yrkespraktik är en förutsättning för rätten att uttöva läkaryrket ska kunna göra yrkespraktiken i Finland. I och med att systemet för legitimizing av läkare genomgick en förändring år 2011 uppsted situationer där personer som påbörjat sin läkarutbildning i en give EU-eller EES status föll mellan stolarna. Det finns därför två viktiga avsikter med det rauh förslaget, dels att göra det öjligt för finländare som inlett sina studier i till example Polen att komma tillbaka till Finland så fort öjligt effectter att de har fullföljt sin utbildning, och på så vis säkerstalla en snabb integration av dem i det finländska service- och fortbildningssystemet. Enligt Folkpensiosanstaltens statistik över studystöd studyade 250 finländare under läsåret 2015—2016 medicin utomlands i sådana lännder som kräver yrkespraktik. Det är viktigt att vi ser till att ta vara på den ox resourcen, att vi inte lämnar de finländska studyerande utomlands vind för våg, utan vöjliggör för dem att återvända till Finland och arbeta ox. Dels är den ändringen oerhört viktig för att trygga Ålands förutsättningar att tillhandhålla tillräckliga halso- och sjukårdstjänster. Åland har ett stort behov av Svenskspråkiga läkare för att kunna förse ålänningarna med vård på sitt modersmål. Därför är det är förslaget av största vikt för att möjliggöra för vårdinstanser att erbjuda yrkespraktik åt läkare som studerat i Sverige. Det är en win-win som dels säkrar tillgången av arbetskraft och dels att sjukhusen kan tillhandhålla service på svenska. Nu gällande lagstiftning möjliggör redan yrkespraktik i Finland för läkare som inlett studier i sådana EU- Eller EES-stater som kräver yrkespraktik etter examen, men med villkoret att studierna ska ha inletts före 2012. Genom den ändring som nu föreslås slopas tidsbegränsningen att studierna ska ha inletts före år 2012. Det kommer att bidra till att Finland kan trygga en säker tillgång av läkare också i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u27	Madam President! Indeed, this bill has come before us quickly, but it is important. According to this proposal, the social welfare and health licensing and supervision agency could grant a limited right to practise the profession of doctor in Finland as a legalised professional to a person who has completed a basic doctor’s degree in an EU or EEA country where the right to pursue a doctor’s profession is subject to the completion of post-graduate vocational training. For example, this responds precisely to this medical situation in Åland. The arrival of Finns studying medicine abroad as early as possible within the Finnish service and continuing education system will ensure their good integration into our system. According to the proposal, Valvira’s workload is not considered to increase, but it is good to make sure that they also have sufficient resources. Valvira would mean training doctors with a health professional register for Terhikki, whose public service would also enable citizens to identify the rights and status of the doctor who practises the training. However, what is important behind this presentation is also the demand for and demonstration of this language skills, which means that it is the employer’s duty in the future to ensure that the practice doctor also knows the language. According to statistics from 15 to 16, there are currently 761, Finnish medical students worldwide and the countries where the most Finns study are Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Romania, Russia. It is a good thing that they can study and then come back to Finland, but all in all it would also be extremely important for us in Finland to have more medical training places so that more and more people who dream of being a doctor can start studying here in Finland as well. In other words, I see that it would be significant for the future to increase the number of medical study places in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u28	Madam President! The main content of this bill is that a person who has completed a basic medical degree in the EU or EEA country since 1 January 2012 could also receive Valvira’s permission to practise in Finland. Although the bill speaks of EU and EEA countries, in practice the aim is to attract Finnish doctors who have studied in Sweden to Finland. This effort is, of course, very welcome and good. However, there is a small but essential problem in the proposal which I hope will be taken into account in the committee reading. Because it would be easy to repair with a small change. According to the proposal, those who started their studies after 1 January 2012 should apply for legalisation from the supervisory authority of their country of study, Valvira couldn't do this legalization. The draft law states that vocational training in Finland should be approved in the country of study in accordance with Article 55a of the Professional Qualifications Directive. And in the case of Åland this happens because Åland has a separate agreement with Uppsala University Hospital. In practice, however, this is not the case in Sweden, namely that the Swedish Socialtyrelsen considers legalisation to be a condition for the health centre part of traineeships, which lasts for three to six months, and for a psychiatrist, which is about three months, to be carried out in Sweden, even if the training has been carried out abroad, and this leads to a problem. The problem is becoming even more difficult because there are fewer traineeships in Sweden than there are doctors who graduate. It follows that, in practice, traineeships are not allowed if you wish to do only these required health centre sections and psychiatry in Sweden. As a result, this bill does not make Finns who have studied in Sweden substantially more attractive to come to Finland to practice unless they come to Åland. Finns studying in Sweden also know this, and as a result, the bill is not quite as encouraging as it would like it to be. However, a small correction could be made to improve this by enabling Valvira to act as a legal authority for a Swedish student who has not completed his training in Åland, if he is found to have the same clinical skills as those required to legalise in Finland and has been properly trained. This should be considered at committee stage, and although I assume that Mr Löfström, whom I very much appreciate and who spoke very wisely about this proposal in relation to Åland, also understood, I would like to say this once again:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u29	Mr President! According to a recent study by the Medical Association, the medical deficit in health centres is only 3.5 per cent of all doctor’s duties. The gap is smaller than ever before in the 21st century. At its highest, the deficit was 11 per cent in 2008. Regional differences in the medical situation have also become evener. The better labour market situation is driven by temporary substitutes. Last October, about 850 positions, or one in five, were replaced. Some 2,500 permanent doctors were employed. The health centres have been well-placed when some 600 new doctors are completed each year, virtually all of them working in health centres for 9 months in the course of special training in general medicine. Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to enable a person who has completed a basic medical degree in another EU or EEA State to undergo the vocational training required as a condition of the right to practise a doctor. The proposal would also ensure that the Åland Islands can provide health care services for their residents. The arrival of Finns studying medicine abroad as early as possible within the Finnish service and continuing education system would ensure their good integration into the system. A health care professional must have the necessary oral and written language skills for his/her duties. Valvira checks language skills for applicants whose vocational training has been carried out in a language other than Finnish or Swedish, regardless of their nationality. In recent years Valvira has intensified the supervision of foreign doctors. It has looked more closely at diplomas and qualifications, but there has been no widespread concern about these matters, but there have always been individual cases. It is also the employer's duty to ensure that all health professionals who work for it have sufficient professional skills. Employers’ responsibility for the guidance of medical students and newly graduated doctors has increased, and will continue to increase in the near future, both as a result of the increase in the number of admissions to medicine and the increased study of medicine abroad, while the retirement of experienced doctors will increase in the coming years. Doctors coming to Finland for professional training would perform the duties of a doctor under the direction and supervision of a legalised doctor. It would be the employer’s responsibility to ensure that the doctor performing the training has the skills and sufficient language skills and to ensure the written appointment of the legalised doctor directing the work of the doctor performing the training. According to the proposal, supervision would not significantly increase employers' current responsibilities or change the current practical arrangements for professional guidance for newly graduated doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u30	Mr President! In view of the poor medical situation, it is justified that an initial medical examination completed in the countries of the EEA and the EU should allow a limited right to act as a doctor in Finland. Although this proposed change is now largely about Åland in practice, it would still be a good thing if the proposal were to alleviate the shortage of doctors in the rest of the country as well. We have a somewhat reversed problem at the eastern border with regard to the situation in Åland, i.e. there is a great deal of experience with doctors of Russian or Estonian origin, whose language skills have not been praised in all circumstances, but it is better that there is a doctor than that there is no doctor at all. While facilitating the shortage of doctors through these national measures, i.e. by increasing the number of training places, other such measures will also reduce barriers to the functioning of doctors who have studied within the Union in Finland may temporarily make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u31	Madam President! It is good that this legislation is now in order and that it is precisely possible for doctors to exercise, and as Mrs Löfström well described in her speech the situation in Åland, this is very important for the medical situation in Åland. At the moment, it is also good to remember that very many Finnish students, after a matriculation examination, apply to Estonia to study medicine, including the University of Tartu, and complete the required degree there. And if I remember correctly, there is English as the language of instruction, and this is how you get an international degree, and then when you come to Finland, of course, you must register and get permission from Valvira that you can practice that doctor's profession. In other words, international cooperation is at stake, and it is easy to regulate these issues within the EU, when European Union directives are binding on different fields of education and, for example, on the skills and skills of doctors. It is important that Valvira performs his duties well and that such unfortunate fake medical situations in this country are no longer born. The right to practise the profession of doctor is extremely important. Yes, there are reasonably good doctors in Finland. Now all you have to do is hope when more doctors are trained: That is the real problem, of course, when it comes to basic health care, services do not always play in a commendable way. This is something we should pay attention to and get more doctors to do, but these doctors should also be able to work in health centres other than large growth centres through this system. Otherwise, this is not gonna work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u32	Madam President! Of course, the patient safety that has been raised in some of the speeches is of paramount importance, and it must of course have sufficient capacity and processes to ensure that it is not compromised under any circumstances. However, we certainly have a great deal of confidence in Swedish medical training in particular, and in Sweden there are a large number of doctoral students, in fact hundreds of them from Finnish background, who complete a doctor's basic degree there, and it is good that Valvira is able to enable them to practice in Finland. It would be even better if Valvira were also able to act as a legal authority after carrying out this training under conditions where it has been established in the course of the training that the clinical capacity to practise a doctor's profession independently in Finland is met, and in this respect I hope that a good consideration will be given to whether the draft law in this respect can be supplemented. At present, there is a risk, a significant risk, that many students in Sweden may go to Denmark, where there is no shortage of traineeships in the same way as Sweden, and where there is also a chance of legalising as a doctor after this practice. And the earlier we get the Finns who have studied abroad back into the Finnish labour market, the better, of course, that they will not be able to take more root in these countries, but that we can get our sons and daughters back from the world to serve in Finland. A good bill, supplemented with a few things, even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u33	Madam President! Important issues have been raised here: patient safety and precisely this requirement for language skills. Yes, it is that it is the first step and the first key to understanding and good treatment and that the diagnosis is correct and the patient is heard and understood and thus improved. I would like to highlight here these starting places for medical training in Finland. Since 1994, when there were only 354 places to start, there has been a huge rise. The target for 2016 was 770 study places. This was evident when I asked a written question on this subject during the previous period. At the moment, there have been 761 Finnish students studying abroad in the years 15 to 16. It is quite a large number, considering that between 11 and 12 there were only 298. So the doors have opened to Finnish students abroad. Many others have asked about these places of study in Finland, and I think it is very important that we should have a discussion about this too, that how we can secure the continuation of medical students in Finland as well. Should these starting points be raised, and at what point and in what way could there be a discussion on this issue? We have very high-quality education in Finland and we have highly motivated students. When I talked to one of the students who went abroad to study, he just told me that when the motivation is tough and success has been found, he has felt well, but then he has not been able to get in on these entrance exams in Finland and he has experienced the trouble that it is sad that he has not been able to study in his own country, and then he has gone abroad to apply for his studies. Patient safety is extremely important, and the fact that the patient finds a doctor is significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u34	Madam President! At least I was surprised how many Finns study medicine abroad. I agree with Mr Juvonen that we should consider adding more places for starting medicine. That would make it possible for them to be tied up here in Finland and we would have highly skilled doctors in Finnish. Now we have a lot of doctors who have come from abroad, and they have a poor Finnish language, and it has again caused problems with patients. Patients often say that you should have an interpreter who is able to talk to your doctor. Then there is the fact that problems have also arisen with the foreign doctors in dictation. When the speech is not clear, there may be a lack of epi-crisis or even a direct error. Words that are not understood or not clear are replaced by dots. The fact that patients do not always understand the instructions they receive from doctors is also a problem, but I have found that pharmacists usually at the pharmacy today then confirm whether the doctor has told you and have you understood how to use them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u35	Madam President! I should like to add, as Mrs Juvonen well said, that it is important that we ensure that we have sufficient training places in Finland as well. But especially as regards students who have studied basic medical degrees in Sweden: In practice, in most cases they are completely bilingual in most cases, so if we can facilitate the return of medical students who have studied in Sweden, we can also facilitate the situation in some areas, namely that it may be difficult to find qualified Swedish-speaking doctors. Thus, this bill, especially if it is still being amended in committee as I have described it, will also have an impact on Swedish-speaking services in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u36	Madam President! Just as Mr Rydman said, this is a matter that is well dealt with in committee. And it is very important to mention here that doctors who are actually studying in Sweden are affected — or students are concerned — and they will respond to the need that we have here in Finland also with the Swedish languageism, which is also the problem of not necessarily being able to speak Swedish with doctors and then becoming this language problem. There has now been a situation in Åland that no doctor has been found, and in that sense this is very good. This requirement of bilingualism for medical staff and doctors too, I must say as a nurse that "jag talar bara lite svenska, men jag förstår att det är viktigt", that these phrases will do some good there in the treatment field. But you also need to be able to communicate: Vad ska jag göra? Har du ont i halsen, eller vad är det med dig? These are also typical of nurses there. Yes, we should all have a little sense of how we can also be able to serve in Swedish in the nursing sector — that is who they are. A very good draft law, and let us take these points, which are then found and found, and then we shall raise them in committee. Let us hear widely, but let us certainly deal with it quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u37	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Audit Committee, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u38	Madam President! The Board's Annual Report for 2016 is now under discussion. After all, the central task of this government has been to put this country's economy in order. And I am a little surprised that there will be no Social Democrats at the time of the economic debate, but Mr Viitanen will not fail, nor will Mr Lindtman. They come as if on request when talking about the economic situation in the country. [Quick Five] Your turn in the economy has taken place during this government. However, economic growth continues to be moderate, but these supporting factors are more pronounced than before. Private consumption and investment continue to support economic growth, but exports are also growing in importance. Thus, our country's economy left the recession behind more clearly last year, and GDP grew by 1.6 per cent from the year before for the whole of last year. This year also shows growth. Yesterday Customs published preliminary statistics on foreign trade in March 2017. The value of our country's exports grew by 17 per cent from last year's March. The monthly value of exports last year was over EUR 5 billion in October 2014, which is why this turn has also taken place here on the export side. Exports of almost all major categories of goods grew in March of this year and the most significant increase was in electrical machinery and equipment, steel and refined petroleum products. Exports of transport equipment, sawn timber and chemical products also increased. Yesterday I was allowed to make my first business visit to the Forest Group's Rengo sawmill, and it was nice to visit one of those... - I'll be in the box for a little while. Not in the box. In the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u41	Madam President! As Mr Heinonen well said, the economy is currently growing in Finland, employment is getting stronger, unemployment is falling, exports are finally increasing and consumer confidence, as well as the confidence of entrepreneurs, in Finland's economy and in its own economy is strong. I think I understand what the concept of May Day speech means, so of course the intention is quite literally to motivate and encourage troops in the marketplace. But I do not understand that, in a situation like this, when all economic indicators look better, the message of the May Day speech of the Chairman of the SDP is that the government should resign when it has not succeeded in any respect in its work. The absolutely incomprehensible demand in the face of this strong economic development — and I am not even taking a stand on the secondary question of who is responsible for the good development of the economy. If we start with this idea that when things go well in the economy, employment is increasing, unemployment is falling, that is the reason for the government's resignation and the opposition leader's demand for the government's resignation, then should a little bit of an opposite reasoning then lead to the conclusion that when everything goes wrong, then the opposition believes that the government has every reason and every reason to continue? I would also like to draw attention to the concept of the need for a change of direction in the country's policy. Now that you're getting better, a change of direction would mean that you're getting worse. Well, is that what the opposition, including the Greens, is demanding? The Greens have said that this government does nothing but cut off education. Well, now we see from the results that quite a lot more has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u42	Mr President! It is all right that the world economy now has a tailwind — in the past it was a headwind, now it is a tailwind. But, President-in-Office, what is worrying here is the fact that, despite this windfall, the government is falling far short of its own objectives, both in terms of debt and employment. We are talking here about the Government's report, and I looked here at page 55, and I hope that the government parties will also look at page 55, where the government itself assesses its own successes in these objectives, and this is a time of concern: the public debt of 60% — the objective is not met. Government deficit of 0.5% of GDP — not met. The structural deficit of public entities — not met. A few people have, because of that, a little bit of debt, because everyone knows that after that little fold it's starting to grow again, that's what we've heard. The government has failed to meet its objectives of both employment and indebtedness, and whether it is a May Day speech or a serious speech as a May Day or a May Day speech in this Chamber, I think it is quite right to ask for the success of the government. I find it very disparaging to think that everything is well now and that the government has done a great job, because even the government's own readings here in the operating report tell us that quite so magnificently this has not been the case. We, as Social Democrats, have very often warned of this, that if the pace of reform were to take place, the pace of action on employment would be as slow as the government has been — two years behind — and very little has happened — then it would lead to a downward spiral. Last today, in the Committee on Finance, a number of economic experts said that if the autumn row is the same as the small steps that were now this spending limits debate, which was a slump and disappointment, then new economic adjustment measures are ahead, whether it be cuts or tax increases — this is the last thing we heard today. At this rate, the government will leave a very, very difficult economic situation to its successor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u43	Madam President! Mr Viitanen stressed that the government was falling short of its own ambitious targets for jobs and debt. This is what it looks like at the moment, which means that we are not currently in a career that would lead to 110,000 new jobs and a fall in public debt in relation to GDP in 2019. This is the reason why the government must continue to take further steps to boost employment and growth. But, Mr Viitanen, no one has said that now is all right, at least not now in this debate or in any other debate. What we have said in this debate with Mr Heinonen, for example, is that at the moment the economy is going in the right direction: the economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, even exports are increasing, confidence is growing and so on. And when, in a situation such as this, where things are going better but not at a sufficient pace, the key message of the President of the SDP is that the government should throw the gloves off and resign, then I say that there was little credibility in that May Day speech and in this demand. I am nothing special to advise the opposition, but it is funny that the opposition is repeatedly called for a change of direction in Finnish politics when, as I have already said, the direction is better — more people find jobs and so on — and this policy is now being called for a change of direction. What would that mean? That would mean turning into a worse development and a worse one, I guess no one means that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u44	Mr President! I have heard other than the opposition talking about the need for a change of direction here. After all, the problem is that the government has made a perverse economic policy, which has resulted in a lack of jobs and an inequality between the people. Quite a few people there at Tammelantori or at Hervanna's shops have come to say that do something about this government's meining, where the weaker people are taken away, inequality is growing, the rich are getting tax cuts. I'm sure we'll need a change of direction. Yes, a change of direction is required, as I said just now, that the government is not fulfilling its main economic objectives. The government itself admits the representative of Zyskowicz and Heinonen himself admits here that the central objective of employment, the central objective of the debt target, neither is met — economic experts, the government itself in its own documents. Well, don't we need a change of direction for this? My goodness, I think we need a change of direction, but we need to take action, not just to keep our heads down, as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u45	Madam President! Mr Viitanen, we really do not need a change of direction. I am not going to go into this semantic quirk, but when the direction is right, we do not need a change of direction, but we need more speed, that is, more action in the chosen direction. This is what it's all about. The government needs to do more to support economic growth, which supports employment, and that is what the government is doing. As has been said, it seems that we are not in a career that would achieve the ambitious objectives of the government programme, but that is what is being worked for all the time to achieve them. With regard to the fact that the government is standing straight, a major reform has been introduced today in relation to freedom of choice for social welfare reform. The claim that the government is not doing acts and reforms for Finland is indeed wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u46	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz well described the fact that the direction has changed, as has been the case in my own speech. Which means we've turned around. Now the indicators that have to show up show up, that is, the economy is growing and the indicators that we want to show down show down, that is, unemployment is falling and so away. There is no doubt that there has been a change of direction during this government. I am not going to compare the events during the last government or during the various finance ministers, but the direction is now the right one. But it is true that we need to get that angle even steeper, so we need stronger growth for this. That is why measures are now being taken to strengthen work and employment, that new jobs are being created, because that is the only way we will be able to meet the challenges that we are already facing behind 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u47	Mr President! The earrings are broken by the screaming contradiction between what Mrs Zyskowicz has said. In his first speech, he is admiring how the Finnish economy is now in a huge position,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u50	Mr President! Of course, the government does. Among other things, the government cancels its own silly presentations — by the way, now that Mr Kankaanniemi has come to the Chamber, I would be happy to hear more from the Basic Finns about this management register —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u55	Mr Zyskowicz's reply, and then we will move on to this list and see if it will make a new debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u56	Madam President! The political direction of the government is the right one. It strengthens economic growth, it strengthens employment, it strengthens the conditions for entrepreneurship, it strengthens the incentive for work and so on. The direction is the right one, but the fact is that we are not yet in a position to achieve ambitious targets in terms of employment and debt during this parliamentary term. That is why further efforts are needed to boost economic growth, increase employment, create better conditions for entrepreneurship and employment, and so on. It's the right direction. If a government is now required to resign or if a government is required to resign and when it is said that the policy direction needs to be changed, then it will be difficult for me to come up with a worse time for making such demands than it is now, when all economic figures will provide more positive information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u57	Madam President! The direction has changed, and it is the right one, and then, Mr Lindtman, according to your illustration, we can also increase speed. That's the way it is. We need more momentum and more decisions that consider this changed direction sufficient for us to be able to respond to these economic challenges. The government’s budget programme of EUR 10 billion, which also included a savings programme of EUR 4 billion, also covered this spending limits line. So the tight line of fiscal policy has been maintained. As has been pointed out here, these measures are not enough to do so, and further measures will be taken in the autumn, but even now, in the middle of this debate, measures were taken, although there was little room for manoeuvre. That is why I am surprised that Mr Viitanen criticised these measures, because this was precisely the focus on knowledge and education. Comprehensive school received equality allowance, vocational school reform is progressing, and the Academy of Finland will receive more. There was also an increase in the budget for security — police, protection police, the border, the Defence Forces — and also more investment in employment and reform. One important factor is that thousands of Finnish families with children will again be able to access free early childhood education. I think it is a pretty great thing for families to be included in early childhood education and for children to be included in early childhood education, and now that more jobs are being created, hopefully more and more parents will also be able to get away with the work. Mr President! More measures to support growth and employment will be needed in the autumn when next year's budget is being made, and they will certainly come from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u58	Mr President! One of the important tasks of the government is to stop living as a debt, and the goal is that it should be in the early 2020s. That's everyone's goal. It is in everyone's interest that this exports have progressed and recovered and thus generate more tax revenue. Only by working and doing work will we gain well-being in this country and can we correct those mistakes – I admit that we have also had to cut from the low incomes, and those with small pensions or small other incomes are the ones who are the worst affected by even minor cuts. But only because this will be corrected that we will get a job in this country. It is currently being discussed that it is difficult for job seekers and providers not to meet each other, and at the moment, for example, if we look at Rauma Shipyard and the Turku car industry, there is a shortage of workers and there is also a shortage of housing. You don't fix these things all of a sudden. What has been done to these SMEs, which are one of the backbones of Finland: yes, the government has taken small steps to make the activities of these SMEs a prerequisite. It is also important that we keep the whole of Finland inhabited and that our country is safe and that it is good to live here. I admit that we probably don't have the time and the need for the board members to bang the suspenders, but yes, I do think that we have made little progress. There have been fewer unemployed people, and then, most importantly, there are good things in this vocational education and training, and what is important is that we in the government get things so that every young person gets the first job or every person in the primary school gets into some secondary vocational education — that's where the young person starts his course of study. But like I said, there's a lot more to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u59	Mr President! I would like to believe that the government would have a foot in gas, which it would achieve its objectives by pressing. But now let's see what it would take — unlike the representatives of Zyskowicz and Heinonen here suggest that a few tricks are being done in the autumn. [TimoHeinonenarvous] According to this Government's own proposal, the central government deficit target for 2019 is three times that set for itself,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u60	Would you like to continue? No, you don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u61	Mr President! Perhaps as a follow-up to Mr Lindtman's speech, the last expert in the Committee on Budgets today thought that achieving this employment target would require a 3% increase. This is where we know exactly where we are going, which is why these are very serious questions. And especially when it comes to the conclusion that, if this could be said figuratively, the pace of the snail reform, the pace of employment continues, then it does mean that we have huge economic problems: the deficit problem, the debt problem, the unemployment problem, everything gets worse, and then there will be quite a lot left to patch up in the future. Today, the last time there were some wild estimates of the fact that, in the autumn, we will have to reconsider whether it is time for further adjustment. I believe that these are serious warnings as far as economic economists are concerned. President! But here, when Mr Heinonen was here so much banging on the suspenders with these big decisions, what was now achieved in this mid-term debate about these great contributions, for example, to education or other things: It's called canceling.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u64	Madam President! I did not bang the suspenders with them, but I specifically told them that there was little room for manoeuvre in the middle row and that it was therefore desirable to use the small margin of manoeuvre specifically to target where the most needed is now, that is to say, primary school, education, the skills we will be able to manage in the future: equality money precisely to ensure that inequality does not occur in early childhood education and primary schools; vocational school reform, the big reform, what we have been waiting for in vocational schools for a long time; The Academy of Finland, the investments there; then the security investments that I brought up; and also the change in day care fees, i.e. for thousands of families, the day care fees will be completely abolished, that is, for them day care, early childhood education, will become free of charge in the future, that is a good thing, and hopefully it will also support employment development and thus economic development. We cannot afford to bang the suspenders, but these are good, positive news, and I believe that even Tammelantor will welcome them with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u65	President! Yes, I very strongly believe that of course day care fees are a great thing, and of course it is good that these cruel, wrong cuts are cancelled, but I am now paying attention to what is being asked at least in Tammelantor and in schools, for example: many students and their parents are concerned about having been so wickedly cut off from education before that. And, Mr President, what is the problem here: cutting not only disparate society but also endangering the equal future of children. And then the problem is that, in economic wisdom too, it is an obstacle to growth, to future policy, and it will contribute to increasing the cycle of failure that has unfortunately been found in this equation of wrong choices. What I would like to point out here — I should like to continue the discussion with Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen: Can the Finns of Finland, now that we have discussed this policy of government and the withdrawal of decisions, take the view that where are we going with this management register? It would also be interesting because I do not think it is a very good demonstration of the ability of the government to act. Let us hope that the Finns of Finland will now put brakes on the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u66	Madam President! I have not demanded or anticipated any tricks from the autumn budget debate that will solve everything, but I have anticipated it and suggested that the government should take new measures to continue supporting economic growth, supporting employment, improving the conditions for entrepreneurship and thereby strengthening the positive direction towards which the Finnish economy is currently developing. In his speech, Mr Viitanen manages to be very concerned about the state's debt and, nevertheless, to criticise all the savings made by the government. This is the logic of the demos. However, the real move in this debate on my own behalf was the demand of President Rinte that the government should resign, that the government should put the gloves on the table. After all, it is now completely incomprehensible and, I would say, with all the friendship, an unbelievable demand in a situation where the economy is developing in a good direction, in which employment is improving, unemployment is falling, exports are getting stronger. All governments are trying to accomplish things like this. Now we go in that direction, and what is the main message of the chief speaker of the demons? Well, that's the fact that the government can put the gloves on the table and let them finish their job. That doesn't make any sense. Now the government must continue and strengthen its own efforts to support the economy, economic growth and employment. Indeed, without squeezing words, when the direction is right, does the opposition really not come up with a better demand than a change of direction? So the direction is the right one, and it needs to be strengthened in order for the economy and employment to move even further forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u67	There are now two speeches on this list, and one of them is from Mrs Viitanen, so I will not give these replies separately, but there will be more speakers on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u68	Mr President! The Bank of Finland has changed its forecasts from Finland's economic growth to a more positive direction, for example, the growth of exports is accelerating quite significantly this year. Now that the SDP is not in the government, jobs are increasing. When the SDP was in the government last season, jobs decreased. It is true that that target of 72% employment is indeed a challenge, but this target, this 72%, is also a very modest ambition for us if we compare it with the other Nordic countries. It should be close to 80% in order to be at the same level as the other Nordic countries — I do not even want to compare with Iceland, because there are so few unemployed people there. And if it happens now that the SDP will be in the government next season, then I would advise you to follow the example of the other Nordic Social Democrats — they clearly have better prospects for employment and economic growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u69	Mr President! At this point I can certainly congratulate and thank Mrs Zyskowicz for not even trying to prove that this positive trend in global economic growth is thanks to this government. Everyone knows that the change took place in such a way that the actions of the previous government had an explicit effect on it, so the representative Huhtasaari here perhaps then gave a distorted picture of the significance of these governments. You might want to read it. The latest analysis of yesterday's economic column on this issue: the government cannot expressly congratulate itself on this upturn, and this is what economists say. President! That is why we Social Democrats, in the same sentence, manage to be concerned about debt and educational cuts, that our own option is to take less debt but not to cut off the weakest or, for example, education, but to make other choices of value. No tax reductions are given to the richest, no tax reductions are given to the millions of people. This is the point: different values. As far as this policy of the government is concerned, it is worrying that, despite the spirit of this economic growth, the government will remain behind all its main objectives. Yes, Mr Zyskowicz, I think that we in the Social Democrats have looked at these Government's own pictures of the Government's activity reports, which seem to have a red light on the ground that the government does not meet its key objectives. I think it would be appropriate to return to this idea of Prime Minister Sipilä that the result or out. And it's been asked if it's come to that. In the light of these figures, it has not come. There is a deep concern about what remains to be inherited from the coming seasons, when it is not possible to act now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u70	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz wondered how it would be possible to criticise government citizens for their daunting, impoverishing savings and for the savings that destroy our national competitiveness, such as savings in education and training, while at the same time being concerned about debt. I can tell Mrs Zyskowicz that there is both revenue and expenditure in the budget, and the big problem with this government is that a large part of the money saved from the unemployed, sick, pensioners and students is being used to finance electoral candy like this — new benefits for our own background groups, tax reductions — including this pharmacy reduction proposed by the government, the reduction in the taxation of millions of people receiving the money and the reduction in the taxation of those receiving the large - that is to say, only the large - forest holding, not to mention the tax cuts that come in excess, new, the greatest earnings. In other words, an indication of the government's failure in its policy is that, although the economy is now in a favourable position at international level, the government's own deficit target is still being exceeded by three times. And why is that? This is due to the fact that, while savings are being made to damage growth, the money is being spent on the new benefits and tax deductions planned for completely ineffective government background groups, and this creates a contradiction which prevents the government from achieving its own objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u71	Mr President! You don't have to be much of an economist when you look at how long the Social Democrats have been influencing Finnish politics. In Finland, these social democrats have been a little stiff, they always talk about the same things, even though the world is constantly changing around us and we should always take the lead from just Iceland and Switzerland — After all, Switzerland is the most competitive country in the world and dares to bring new openings and think in a new way. That is why it is good that Finnish Finns have come to Finland’s political map, among others, who dare to question the euro, the EU and other things that are not working. I expect that's where the growth goes. At a time when Mr Lindtman will be able to tell me that Switzerland, Norway and Iceland would be even better off if they were not part of the EU, we will certainly have a good and fruitful debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u72	Mr President! There must be wisdom in this speech by Mr Huhtasaari on the effects of the EU and the euro. I would have liked to have heard what the Social Democrats think about this, whether Finland was in favour of driving into the EU and the euro, when our economy is in this position, for example, that we cannot devalue our own currency. By the way, we have a little intellectual honesty in this debate. It is now said that the changes that took place in 2015 are not thanks to the government, but you believe that all the things that have happened at that time are the fault of the government. The government has been criticised for everything the previous government has done. Even the cuts in education made by the previous government have been criticised all the time by the current government. However, I do not think that this people will believe what the Social Democrats have said. The best proof of this is that municipal elections will have a clear electoral defeat, despite the opposition position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u73	Mr President! This is interesting in itself when here the representative of the Finns Party, Huhtasaari, accuses the SDP that we have stalled when we talk about the same things. I find it horribly wonderful that the Workers' Movement, the Social Democrats, has been talking about the same things, such as the importance of employment and the defence of the disadvantaged, throughout their history. I think it's a great thing. Of course, I think it is better to talk about the same things than this modern-day demonstration of the politics of the Finns, in which we talk about different things in the run-up to the elections and completely different things when the elections are over. So this is the great non-settling policy of today? The most interesting thing about this equation is that, while we are in a government where the Prime Minister tells us that we are strictly in Europe, we are firmly in the euro, so today, on 9.5., by the representatives of the Finnish People's Party, speeches are being made that 'we dare to be Eurocritical, we dare to speak about Euroregime and so on'. What on earth is this? Is this news? Is that why the management registers and others were taken off the list today when the Finns decided that now we are no longer in trouble with the EU, now we are breaking up with the euro? Is that why we pulled this management register off the list today? President! I now draw attention to the fact that there are now many Finns who could comment on our question as to why this management register was withdrawn. Well, that's good. I hope the government cancels this Twilight Register. Action After all, the Kankaanniemi, as a recent group president, said that this would be the end of the matter. Of course, it is a good thing if the posture comes into the politics of the Finns of Finland now and then, indeed, the speeches that have been made in the past are given in this matter, and then the coat is not translated, I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u74	Representative Viitanen and other representatives present, this is the Government's Annual Report 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u75	Madam President! One can say that 2016 was a turning year for the Finnish economy. Just after reading the Helsingin Sanomat in that reading room, I took a copy of a newspaper article saying that 'the wild export figures surprised'. In other words, Finland's exports have really taken off, and it is not just that we have started to grow the production of Mercedes in New Town or that the Turku Shipyard or Helsinki Shipyard or Rauma Shipyard are making better ships that enter the world market. According to this newspaper article, according to the Helsingin Sanomat story, which I highly appreciate, there has been a positive change in all industries. Of course, the opposition is trying to do everything it can to ensure that it is because of them, but I have never, in my parliamentary history, come to understand that it is the opposition that decides. Just as Mr Mäkelä quite rightly said, if the actions of the previous government carry us all the way to this point so far that all good is thanks to you, but then what went completely towards the print shop — 100,000 more unemployed, 40 million more in debt — is the fault of the government sitting again, then at least your thinking is yes, Mr Lindtman, chairman of the largest opposition group, quite a black hole, I would say a supernova, a gap that I find quite impossible to understand as a country boy. Stop, ladies and gentlemen, this inextricable sage about 'when we would have done it'. If by this means our fathers and mothers had thought in Ilomants that "we had done so", we would not have done the children, the fields would not have been cleared, and the schools would not have been built. Stop it, people, the smart-ass. Translation in the economy has taken place in 2016. This report already shows that. Your turn has happened, and a representative. There are millions of explanations on the cape as to why the government's fault is all there is, but this report also tells us that the turn has taken place. There's nothing you can do about it. No matter what the rhetoric is, stop, ladies and gentlemen, spraying people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u76	Mr President! What a pleasure it was to listen to Mr Hoskonen's positive debate on the matter, which is quite true. 2016 was indeed a turning year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u79	Mr President! Mr Huhtasaari, I hope that, when you are on the board, not only will things — such as the management register — be brought up, but also something will be done about them. After all, this is a basic Finns fire test now, how this is going to turn out. And what does that have to do with this account? This proposal has been submitted in 2016, and it has long been here in Parliament, and it is so that we can see now what the real influence of the Finns in this government is. Otherwise, everything can be kept on the table. [Laura Huhtasaari’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u80	Madam President! Representative Lindtman here just highlighted these facts when there was a turning point in the economy, when there was a turning point in employment. And yes, I would now recommend that, if we do not believe in the opposition, then at least the economy. I was just reading the headlines: "The government cannot congratulate itself on the upturn." Olli Harma writes and goes through these figures: the current government has not caused a change, and we are going through the history that, for example in the national economy, the trend turned in spring 2015, [Laura Huhtasaari’s interlude] Now that Minister Orpo is here, there has been a rather serious debate here about the fact that, now that we have this global economic pull and the wind is in the wind — unlike last season's common government had a little headwind — these economic objectives are still not being met and, for example, the deficit target for sovereign debt is being missed three times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u81	Madam President! According to this article in this magazine, the capital of the kingdom, which I highly appreciate, it is particularly promising that export growth is divided into many sectors, as I said just now. And the thing is that now that the opposition is trying to turn the black white again, that this is because of them and the government's fault, do you think it would be better for us parliamentarians to act in a way that is honest and frank about how things are? I vividly remember, at the end of the last parliamentary term, how this country was about in chaos — even Mr Viitanen voted against the proposals of his own government in this Chamber — and 100,000 more unemployed people came and 40 million were in debt during that time. Yes, now the honest person must tell us that this Government Annual Report for 2016 is about a clear economic turn, and it is also referred to by the valuable financial editor of Helsingin Sanomat in his own speech in Helsingin Sanomat today. And at last we will be in a situation in the near future where, in order to maintain growth, we must also make wise labour market decisions. If we are going to liquidate the benefit that has now been obtained immediately, it will result in foreign trade not doing so and our economy will not grow to the growth that this economy necessarily needs. If you are going from this circle of fact to twist the fact that the government has screwed up all things and this is thanks to you when you have to deal with the country's affairs from the opposition, then that rule of parliamentaryism does not make sense to me, and then nothing. I hope one day I'll understand that when I get smarter and bigger. But if you are going to the people in this way to talk about this matter in the turbulent and squares, it may even sink in some small area, but, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the dignity of the representative's task alone, do you want to go on such an easy-to-do line? It seems that not even the troll factories used by some countries can do that, and that is not the way anyone should go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u82	Mr President! Perhaps I will leave that kind of rhetoric to the interpretation of all the listeners. We have tried very seriously here to ask whether the government is not at all concerned about the fact that the government's own estimates of the government's debt target and the government's employment target are not being implemented. Is that not a cause for concern? It's been the big question today what we've been talking about. The second is that it is good that the world economy shows some signs of improvement. But what makes this issue even more worrying from our point of view, from Finland's point of view, is that, in spite of this windfall that will come from the global economy, the government will not comply with these objectives of employment and indebtedness. That's what it's been about. That is something we have seriously asked about. We have not tried here to do what Mr Hoskonen said just now that we would have gone up to ourselves to lift up or talk. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u83	Mr President! Mr Viitanen has an excellent way of combining things that are not in any way related. It is quite clear that when the economy starts to recover, a big thing, the big picture of this whole thing is that we are an export dependent country and that the export industry needs to be turned around and exported to transport. Today it is more visible in Finnish ports than after the last major economic collapse in October 2008. For the first time since October 2008, very positive things are happening in Finnish ports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u86	Mr President! I do not want to continue this tone of discussion, but I think it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u91	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 4/2017 vp. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 5 May 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u92	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u93	Mr President! In view of the rapidly changing security situation in our country, the Assembly Act must be amended as soon as possible. The present assembly law does not allow the police to intervene in tents and tent camps that appear in the city centre. Since the current assembly law does not allow the dismantling of these tent camps at the Helsinki Railway Market, for example, there is a real risk that more of them will start to appear in the rest of the city. The police are forced to act in accordance with Finnish laws. As a police officer, it is frustrating to see potential security threats in these camps in the centre of Helsinki. But the police cannot do anything about it, even though, in order to guarantee public order and security, these camps should have been dismantled as soon as they appeared in the centre of Helsinki. Now that they have been in the centre of Helsinki for three months continuously, there have already been numerous irregularities and also violent crimes. Mr President! I'm not going here to stamp either camp. However, as a representative of the police background, I would say that the long-term presence of camps in the centre of Helsinki is fueling polarisation between different groups, which I do not want to contribute in any way but rather to prevent possible more widespread conflicts in the region. The current law does not guarantee such proactive risk management for the police because they do not have the legislative powers to dismantle these camps. I have received an exceptionally large number of citizens' feedback, in which citizens who are concerned about their security wonder why these tent camps cannot be dismantled. How long will this situation be allowed to continue? Public order and security require rapid action. I therefore hope that my legislative initiative across party boundaries will be supported and speeded up in committee so that my legislative initiative can be brought into force in this weakened security environment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u94	Mr President! This bill proposes to amend the assembly law so that camping in the general areas of the city can be explicitly and clearly prohibited under the assembly law. The police must have the right, under the new assembly law, to dismantle temporary structures in public areas between 22 and 6, such as tents and other camps and camp-type temporary structures. Article 9 of the Convention Act in force allows the general meeting to continue without interruption in the public places of the city. We really need to use careful consideration right now. I understand the idea of this bill. I am deeply annoyed that we have people who are in an illegal state and in Finland and who are protesting on Finnish soil in the centre of Helsinki against our decisions by the authorities. I'd like this camp to be demolished, too. But when I say that we should use careful consideration, I do not want to reduce the rights of Finns. We have a very wide range of civil rights, and I believe that this is an advantage that has been achieved. I do not think that humanitarian immigration can lead us to restrict the rights of our citizens. We do not know how far we will have to go then. If we have borders open, streets closed and the result is a police state, this is the wrong way to go to fix these problems. In order to dismantle the illegal protest camp in the country, it should be used as a solution for foreign surveillance, and those who have now made a negative decision should be detained and there would be only one way out of it, back to their own country. Furthermore, we must now close the western border, just as we have the eastern border, and we must not accept asylum applications from safe countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-09-ps-50.u95	Mr President! The fact that a phenomenon of this kind has begun to occur regularly raises the suspicion in normal Finnish people that some things do not affect foreigners the same way as they do Finns, according to the Finnish sense of justice. It creates insecurity. This is an example of the fact that, in a rapidly changing society, the legislator has the full task of keeping up to date in such a way that such a phenomenon cannot spread across the country.
