ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u1	The third item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of the preparation of legislation. After the Prime Minister's presentation, one round of group talks will take place with a maximum of 5 minutes. I will then give you the answers I am considering in the order of 1 or 2 minutes, and 2 hours will be allowed for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The law regulates human behavior, creates rights and duties. In addition to drawing up the draft budget, the preparation of legislation is the main and most important task of the Government. The ministries are responsible for preparing matters for the Government in their respective fields of activity. The Government is jointly responsible for its activities to the Parliament. The key principles of good lawmaking are that the preparation of the law is based on reliable and correct information. Lawmaking must be transparent and interactive. Citizens, experts and organisations will be consulted. The preparatory work is carried out by professional officials under the timely political guidance of the Government. The drafting of the law will be carried out in a preparatory body to be set up either as an official post or as a separate body, as required by the quality of the matter. The draft laws are being prepared to meet the requirements of the Constitution. The Constitution reflects the fundamental values of Finnish society. They are independent of economic and political conditions. The government respects the Constitution in all its activities. Regulation must also meet international obligations and requirements arising from European Union law. Based on decades of experience, the drafting of legislation has developed its own process model with its preliminary, basic and follow-up stages. This process will enable the preparation to be based on the above principles of good lawmaking. Mr President! High-quality and good legislation is a common goal of the Government and Parliament. It is noteworthy that the preparation of the law has seen the need for improvement in each parliamentary term, regardless of the composition of the government. There are various shortcomings in the preparation, depending on the time and place and who makes the criticisms. Rarely is the work of writing the law itself. In this context, it should be borne in mind that it is not possible to study for the law-making profession in any educational institution. You learn to be a lawmaker by working on lawmaking. The Government itself must take care of the skills and skills of the Preparatory Board. At the January strategy session, the government instructed ministries to ensure that all law-making officials have completed or at least complete the basic course of law-making. Professional requirements for the preparation of legislation have continued to grow. The draft law must be transposed into national law with due regard for its system and basic solutions. The bill must meet the requirements of the three legal systems: firstly, the national legal order, including the constitution, secondly, the law of the European Union and, thirdly, the international obligations binding on Finland. At the same time, the number of cases under preparation has increased and the tasks of the preparatory bodies have become more diverse. Officials working on the law are generally also responsible for other tasks, such as the preparation of EU legislation. They shall negotiate the legislation under preparation in the Council working groups and shall be responsible for preparing the Government's position and for drawing up the relevant pleadings for Parliament. Compliance with the principles of good lawmaking starts with the ministries, the minister himself. The planning and organisation of legislative work and the provision of the necessary human resources are the responsibility of the management. The management of each ministry shall ensure the conditions for high-quality drafting of legislation. Mr President! The criticism of the quality of drafting must be taken seriously. Last December there was a debate on respect for the Constitution and the role of the Chancellor of Justice. It is not a matter of practical drafting of legislation on a separate, separate issue. Ensuring the constitutionality of the draft law is an essential and integral part of the drafting of the law at all stages of the legislative process. Constitutional requirements must be taken into account both when designing a legislative project and when considering regulatory options and when considering the details of regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to the need for a careful review of fundamental rights in legislative proposals and, among other things, in the budgetary plan. The interpretation of the Constitution is ultimately a matter for the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee. In the preceding stages of the legislative process, it is only possible to anticipate the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on the interpretation of the Constitutional Treaty. This is based on the normal principles of interpretation of the law and, among other things, on the previous practice of the Constitutional Committee, which can be thought to be relevant to the assessment of the constitutionality of the draft law in question. In the case of a new issue or a new setting, anticipating interpretation is not always simple. Often the interpretation of the Constitution is not just an assessment of one fundamental right, but an assessment of a number of fundamental rights. In public debate, this plurality is often vexed with black and whiteness. I hope that more attention will also be paid in the public debate to this consideration and analysis of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u11	Then for the round of group talks, the first parliamentary group in the city centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u12	Mr President! "Material construction. " This is how the builders of our republic came along. Our legal system, which dates back to the Swedish era, has proved to be effective and to the public's sense of justice. Finns are therefore exceptionally law-abiding citizens and civil servants. This also places high standards on the level of legislation at all times. The current debate on the drafting and quality of the law was inspired by the Chancellor of Justice's 2014 report. The concern about the level of legislative drafting is long-term, not precisely caused by this government. Not long ago, I was reading Paasikivi's journals. The Prime Minister of that time wrote down 27. December 45th, 45: "Christmas Saints I have used to read settlement legislation reports. It's a terrible thing. This hastily and unmanufactured procedure has been initiated as early as 1940. Kivimäki made a proposal in two weeks. The Committee also worked for 2 weeks. Government 11 days. Parliament 1 month 21 days. Fluttering: No plans. This is not going to be good. "' Ladies and gentlemen! All of us have been in charge of the government. We know that drafting the law is very demanding. Ensuring a good level of legislation is not a government-opposition issue, but a very common issue. That's why I'm paying attention to the future. To improve the level of legislation The Sipilä Board appointed the Legislative Evaluation Council. The Council is independent and independent. Its task is to assess the quality of government proposals and, in particular, the economic impact. Its work has come to a good start. The Constitution is the starting point of all legislation. Compliance with it does not depend on conjunctivities, neither economic nor political. The constitutionality of the Government’s proposals is monitored by the Constitutional Committee, making legal, not political, judgement. The preliminary assessment by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has demonstrated its great strength over a hundred years. Mr President! Good lawmaking requires good skills, sufficient resources, the right attitude and time. The great challenge is often how to reconcile the principles and agility of good lawmaking. In preparing legislation, it would be useful to re-introduce committee work on projects of social importance, of a wide scope and generally beyond the parliamentary term. However, this requires careful preliminary analysis of each project. The preparation and writing of the law require a high level of professionalism and competence. The requirement is that adequate and well-targeted human resources are available. They have been in deficit for a long time under several governments due, among other things, to years of reduction of people and, on the other hand, to major social reforms and related new laws. It would therefore be very justified if these resources were to be strengthened in a judicious manner. Would it also be justified for each ministry to have a law-making officer, a kind of legislative leader? In the preparation of draft laws, the relationship with the Constitution must always be carefully assessed, and the Ministry of Justice should be more able to rely on this. This is also a resource issue. We already have high-quality principles of good lawmaking and related guides. It is important that these principles are also well integrated in the political and civil service management of each ministry. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! A hundred years ago, in mid-November, Parliament declared itself to be the supreme authority and has since been. It is important for each of us to ensure that we behave in our debates and in all our actions in such a way that the value of this power is maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u13	Mr President! "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This was how Attorney General Jaakko Jonkka calmed down the commotion of lawmaking. It is customary to go their own way because the media are tearing their livelihoods out of it, and the opposition, of course, cannot resist stirring up the fuss, because it is a way of raising its own support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u22	Mr President! The quality of the drafting of legislation plays a crucial role in the functioning of society. For citizens' everyday lives, business, employment and many other areas, the effectiveness of regulation at grass-roots level is very important. Better regulation has been developing by OECD, EU and domestic governments for decades. In particular, the Constitutional Committee of Parliament has made several statements on this issue. For example, in 95 C.E., the Council of Presidents pointed out the poor quality of the drafting of legislation by all parties in the government of Prime Minister Lipponen. This is therefore not new, even if it could be concluded from a public debate. Mr President! The Constitution protects the fundamental pillars of the rule of law. We will see what happens in the world if respect for the Constitution, and especially its control, fails. The Constitution and international obligations must always be taken into account in the drafting and decision-making of the law. In Finland, things are in good shape, but we must strive for better and better. The Government must therefore improve its constitutional skills and resources. It is necessary to emphasise the role of the Chancellor of Justice as adviser to the Government. The division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman should be examined in order to assess the need for a change of focus. At the same time, however, the different roles of the Government and Parliament must be kept in mind. The constitutionality of legislative proposals in this country will only be decided by the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee and Parliament. In the context of new phenomena and the necessary structural reforms, there is often a situation where the previous practice of the Constitutional Committee does not provide a clear solution for lawmakers. In this case, the draft law should not be overly easily overturned by the Constitutional Constitution. The government must therefore also dare to bring uncertain and new issues to the decision of the Constitutional Committee. This strengthens the credibility of the supervision of the Finnish Constitution, emphasises the role of Parliament and makes clear the limits set by the Constitution. Mr President! In the opinion of the Assembly, the cornerstones of good lawmaking are the knowledge base based on research, proper alternatives and impact assessments, careful planning of the implementation of the proposal and a comprehensive understanding of the regulated sector of society. Special attention must be focused on assessing the impact of legislation. The Coalition Party believes that the results of science and research should be used more and more in political decision-making and law-making. The establishment of a Legislative Evaluation Council is a strong step in the right direction. Mr President! The emphasis on impact assessments will also change the way policy is made. For example, it would be preferable for the government to have a strategic government programme with general objectives rather than the detailed means decided upon in the first place. First, it is worth aligning the target and then looking for the most effective alternatives in terms of research and expertise. [Left: Horse manure burning!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u23	Mr President, ärade talman! Finland is known around the world for its quality. This also applies to our legislation, and there is always good lawmaking behind good legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u24	Madam President! Careful drafting of the law is the basis of the rule of law. The concern about the level of legislative drafting is therefore not a matter that separates the government and the opposition, but rather a matter that unites us. It is the responsibility of the whole Parliament to demand good lawmaking. We are well aware that the criteria for high-quality drafting of legislation are a recurring topic in the parliamentary debate. However, it is new and serious that the problems of current government legislation have repeatedly been related to fundamental rights and the rule of law. This is a problematic change of attitude, and there is no way to ignore the deterioration in the level of legislative drafting on fundamental rights. That is why this debate is necessary. The government has made a number of proposals which have been in conflict with the Constitution. It has come to the impression that the government is consciously trying to test and test points where the Constitution and fundamental rights could be flexible. This has been noted by experts in the Rules of Procedure as well as by the Chancellor of Justice, whose views have been repeatedly ignored in the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u31	Mr President! Reduction of housing allowance for pensioners, the Act on the Repentance of tax evaders, privatization of interviews with unemployed persons, increases in daily care fees, forced labour laws, lower unemployment security for immigrants, boat and motorcycle tax: here is a list of government buried legal projects. The public and the opposition have gratefully accepted the pitfalls of these unfair and poorly prepared proposals, and for that to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u34	Mr President, ärade talman! "Landskamedlagbyggas." Det är ett visdomsord, som trots sin höga ålder inte föråldrats. Tvärtom, så är det mer actuellt än på länge, det inser vi när vi följer hedelserna i till exempel Ungern, Polen och USA. Vi får aldrig tänka oss laglighetsprincipen och grundrättigheterna som en självklarhet. Inte ens ar i Finland. SFP har långa traditioner när det gäller att kärna om rättsstaten.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u35	Madam President! Parliament's greatest ambition must be high-quality legislation, one that increases the nation's equity capital; one that increases the voluntary will to comply with the law; one that narrows down the grey areas; one that reduces the need for interpretation through the judiciary; one that increases the respect of our work as legislator. All governments and the civil service should, in turn, strive for this. Time will eventually evaluate our work. In order to achieve such an ideal state, it requires a common will and the resources required and sufficient time to prepare. It now seems so, and all the indicators also point in the direction that this lofty principle is not being implemented. This is something that we should all be concerned about and determined to tackle. It would also be unreasonable to say that this lack of law-making would only be a problem for this government, although it is already a problem for this government. For ten years now, lawyers have been politely insinuating a weak legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! We need to raise the level of what we do. One indicator of the success of legislative work could be a reduction in court proceedings due to unclear interpretation of the law. This would mean increasing the precision of the law in regulating it. Mr President! The Government's approach to this period has been to develop better regulation from the outset. The objective was to clarify regulatory governance, reduce the regulatory burden and increase the use of alternative instruments. The Christian Democrats support all these objectives. This spring, the government will have 120 presentations and 7 reports. While hard work is appreciated, quality is rarely replaced by quantity, especially when it comes to structures and changes that are very important for our society and its future. The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party reminds us: there must be enough time for the people not to fall out. Concerns about the poor quality of drafting legislation have been raised by several quarters. Reasoned criticism has focused, among other things, on bypassing constitutional problems for several proposals. Some of these could mention the on-call issue of Vaasa and the restructuring of district courts, which threaten, among other things, the language law enshrined in the Constitution and the right to legal protection. Big concern is the lack of proper impact assessments. Furthermore, in the midst of its cutting policy, the government has repeatedly content itself with justifying the proposals only for economic reasons. This issue has also been raised by the Legislative Review Council. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the committee cannot just set up the law for fiscal reasons. Although the Christian Democratic Parliament considers the improvement of the Finnish economy to be a key objective, we believe that economic impacts alone cannot eliminate the importance of other criteria and impacts. Mr President! The Government should pay particular attention to the fact that large legislative entities are brought to Parliament as a whole, not as they are now doing in social legislation, for example, that proposals for amendments are brought in small pieces, leaving the overall objectives and implementation to guesses. This increases the uncertainty in society as a whole about the government's efforts and makes it difficult for municipalities to prepare for reform. The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament hopes that the government will take a humble view of these broad observations and improve its own run so that we too can run better in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u36	And then Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The proposals that have been made will be considered. For example, when Mr Vehviläinen is given the floor, he will comment on this committee proposal. The development of legislation is an extremely serious issue for the government. There is always something to be developed in processes, so there is now. These processes have also been studied in international studies, and Finland has done very well in them when it comes to good governance. The need for regulation and the quality of regulation were raised here. We must constantly assess the fact that we do not make unnecessary regulation and also have the courage to dismantle unnecessary regulation. Excessive regulation hinders the development of society, initiative and competitiveness. You always have to find the right balance here. This is certainly not a substitute for quality when it comes to legislation. We too, as a government, must constantly seek a balance between Finland's long-standing failure to reform and the need for reforms and legislation. In my opinion, the Legislative Review Council has started its work well. It is now being done as part of the legislative process, it is being done before the government's proposal is submitted and it has brought a valuable addition to this process. Particular attention has been paid to impact assessments and justifications. Let me say a few more words about this debate on the Constitution. First of all, the Constitution reflects the fundamental values of Finnish society. They are independent of economic and political conditions. We have a good constitution. But, especially as we parliamentarians take part in the public debate, the seriousness of this constitutionality should be reflected in the discussions. In particular, as parliamentarians and ministers, when we take a position on constitutional issues, we need to take a good look at the draft law, take account of the weighing of fundamental rights and the balance between them, rather than raising these issues in black and white. This is also the starting point whenever the Constitution is interpreted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u38	Minister Lindström, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u39	Madam President! Let's start with these group speeches. Representative Mr Tölli said that the preparation of the law must be based on the assistance of the Ministry of Justice, and this is, of course, a strong recognition of the Ministry of Justice and its law-making department. In other words, it is precisely in this way that we are also helping other ministries in these preparatory projects, along with our own preparatory projects, and also giving a lot of opinions last year, 255 opinions. Of course, the main responsibility lies with each ministry's own hands, which is, of course, also worth remembering. And criticism must always be taken seriously, not contemptuously. You can't say we've been perfect. We haven't been perfect. Mistakes have been made, and we must learn from those mistakes in the future. In his speech, Mr Huhtasaari raised, among other things, a matter of urgency, and we have also recognized that sometimes there is too much urgency. We need to be able to think for a while about what we are doing now, because not only are we short of these resources anyway, but we also have this time shortage. But this must not lead to a deterioration in the level and quality of lawmaking, and this must be learned. Then, separately from the Group speeches of the Greens, the Left Alliance and the Swedish People's Party, there has been a change of attitude. I'm not the one who disagrees. I would argue that there is no change of attitude here except that the people have chosen us here, and it is strange if it does not show up in politics in some way. But that must not mean that the Constitution and its bypassing are some kind of percussion weapon here. I personally take seriously the accusations that we, for our own sake, have brought to Parliament proposals which would, of course, be contrary to the Constitution. Yes, the idea has been that the Constitutional Committee is the body that considers whether this is the case or not. And we must be able to trust it, because at least I do not have the expertise to say directly about any law whether this is unconstitutional or not, unless it is quite clear, and I doubt myself. In other words, I leave this to the experts, and ultimately it is the Constitutional Committee in Finland, and its work must be given its due value. This is how I think about it. Of course it is good that we are discussing legislation and also the Constitution. This is what I'm talking about. I have not suggested that we should change the Constitution because the Finns are in the government. Of course not. I too know how to change the Constitution, and it is good that it is so long away that it will not be changed just like that. However, the Constitution and our international obligations must also be able to be discussed in an insatiable manner. This is what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u40	Then we can move on to the debut. I'll ask those involved to report to it. Congressman Tölli will begin. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u41	Mr President! I have been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for almost ten years, and one concept has been mentioned in particular, and that is proportionality. When I listened to some of the opposition’s speeches, it was quite a long way from being proportionate. Now that we are discussing this matter, if anything, ensuring and developing the quality of legislation is a common matter and not a government-opposition issue. I would like to say that when this has started with the Chancellor of Justice's report, the report was from 2014 and was at its core and not the actions of this government. Now we have to take a longer perspective here and work together to develop further. Not with this debate — let's save it for a little more difficult things. When this is a common thing, we'll work on it. With accusations, this is not going to go forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u42	Mr President! According to the Attorney General's statistics, the government has less to fix in the preparation of legislation than the previous governments on average. Let us bear this in mind. It is not so bad that the proposal fell on the Constitutional Committee. The interpretation of the Constitution can also change and live with the change in the values of society, which is why the drafting of laws cannot always be based on old interpretations. Times change, laws have to change, not plaster without splash. It is great that this government has the courage to constantly develop and bring forward new proposals, to move on, especially as the opposition passed things on to us last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u43	Mr President! There were mainly rather consensusary speeches on the quality and level of lawmaking and on the challenges that have been in the air since Paasikivi’s time. All parties have been more or less developing or also involved in certain issues of failure. These impact assessments are one of the most important developments that must be taken forward. Paula Risikko, the Minister of Local Government during the last parliamentary term, made a strong point at the time of the establishment of the Impact Assessment Council for this legislation, and it is good that it has now been set up, but its work needs to be further developed: the assessment of synergies and also the evaluation of the impact of legislation should be taken more into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u44	Mr President! At least we agree with the Prime Minister that we Finns should focus on quality, not on bulk. So we are talking about legislation. But you did not answer the question, Prime Minister, whether you are really going to do something about it so that we can have a full-time Minister of Justice. I continue to ask you to answer this question. I would also like to praise the representative who has spoken on behalf of the group in the centre. It's about his opening with the creation of this committee model. We in the SDP genuinely look to the future here too and are prepared to join in this type of cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u45	Madam President! Many legal scholars believe that the government’s attempt to regulate the so-called integration law was a worrying example of how the government has ignored the Constitution and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u48	Madam Speaker! The Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice made very constructive speeches, and it is good to continue with that. When the government is preparing laws, you will have the entire Convention of the Ministry at your disposal — and then you will also have to give these officials sufficient time to study these matters — and so will the Chancellor of Justice and the new Council of Evaluation. But it does not do much good if their comments are not listened to. When we come to this work of the Constitutional Committee of Parliament, we must also ensure that all matters come before the Constitutional Committee if there are any question marks. Unfortunately, during this parliamentary term, we have had to vote twice here in plenary on whether or not this is a matter for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It shouldn't be like this. Under Parliament's rules of conduct, if there is any doubt as to the constitutionality of the matter, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u49	Mr President, värderade talman! When we talk about the Constitution and about children's rights, we should think with a particularly sensitive ear about what it means, and when we focus the rights of the weaker on children who come from somewhere else and have a different status, then there are problems with the Constitution, and I think that would be a good thing for the Minister of Justice to be very aware of now. And if one party has such goals, then there are problems with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u50	Madam President! It is very important to ask how the people experience and understand our work, whether faith in a just society is increasing or diminishing. At the moment, many feel that our work is sloppy. Then the need and the question must be answered, not run away from some secondary issues. If the government does not respond to its own property with sufficient care, the committees and their officials will have to deal with pending proposals and patch up errors and the workload in parliamentary committees will increase. In accordance with the threefold doctrine of power, the judiciary should be able to apply the result of the work of this house, and the drafting material of the law has traditionally played a central role in the work of the law-maker, opening up the purpose of the legislator to this. But if all these are done carelessly, this whole chain of action will be disturbed, and therefore,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u51	Mr President! I will return to this issue of integration money. That is where our system worked as it should: the matter was dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the committee adopted an opinion which was unanimous. This has been on display many ten times. This shows that we have a good system. When the Constitutional Committee gives an interpretation of it, it will then serve as a guide for further preparation. From time to time, we need this. As far as this debate is concerned, I was particularly surprised by what the Greens have said. I don't want to go into the past too much, but if the previous governments had clean flour in a bag on these matters, then there would be such a lot of criticism. But now we have to look forward. I have plenty of material from the previous period, which from the constitutional point of view were problematic and which were very difficult, but now we have to look ahead, stop blaming. This is so important for our entire legal system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u52	Mr President! The government, and Prime Minister Sipilä in particular, seems to be approaching this legislative and constitutional process as if it were a technical matter, as if the government were doing value-neutral laws here, attaching some screws and nuts, and then things were going to work out. But that is not what this is about, but the Constitution protects the equality of our citizens, human rights and fundamental rights, protects people's livelihoods. At least one aspect of government lawmaking is clear. It is that this government has a negative attitude towards human rights, in particular the rights of asylum seekers, and repeatedly makes legislative proposals that test these borders. Legal aid is limited. That is where the Constitutional Committee called for children to have access to it. This decision has also shown that administrative rights are congested and processes are stretched. It has become more expensive because legal aid is not available at the beginning of the process. It was a negative view of human rights, and it is another example, alongside the Act on Integration, that the government simply wants to restrict human rights and experiment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u53	Madam President! At the very beginning, I would like to ask the opposition, after this criticism, whether in what country, Europe or the world, fundamental rights and human rights are better off than here in Finland. But the real thing is that the opposition here gave a false impression of the attitude of the current government towards the Constitution. However, when you do not believe me in this matter, believe even the Chancellor of Justice Jonkka, which has often been referred to both in this debate and in the public debate. What did Jonkka say a week ago in this Parliament? "Then the question is whether the present government or any other government It is thus the case that sometimes our views get better, sometimes worse, and it is not a question of it being overruled or overruled by our views, but of two lawyers having a slightly different view, but it is a question of interpretation.' And then there was this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u57	Mr President! On this point, I could not agree more with Mr Henriksson. Mr President! The Prime Minister here, you can say, a little shook the finger on the Members of Parliament, that we should be careful when the debate refers to the Constitution, that we should not take interpretations just like this. But you, the government parties and the Prime Minister themselves, have twice prevented the constitutional review, both in connection with inheritance tax and in connection with Vaasa's emergency services. By your own actions, you have made it impossible to see whether these proposals were compatible with the Constitution during this term of government. There is a common concern about the preparation of legislation and, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to one thing: even all the group speeches from the government parties paid attention to resources. So I ask you, Prime Minister: would it be time for you to reassess your decision to desecrate half the Minister of Justice from the government? This would be an issue where these exercises should start in order to ensure that better legislation is prepared. Are you ready for this or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u58	Mr President! I will finish with that point that Mr Zyskowicz started when he did not finish. The Chancellor of Justice stated that the level of legislation has remained at the same level throughout his career if you applied for that quote. In fact, I am a little shocked that Mr Niinistö is talking about this government's negative attitude towards human rights. I myself am in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and we have made the changes that have been needed. If reference is now made to these legislative reforms on immigration, they have been done unanimously and you, Mr Niinistö, have been involved in them. So I do not quite understand how you feel this way that our statements are something special. I very much welcome the fact that we are having a different debate on what is a Member of Parliament, the impact of constitutional experts on this different interpretation of laws, and that is a very important debate. There'd be more, but this minute will be so fast.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u59	Mr President! It would be good if the Members of Parliament could recognise the difference that, when the Constitutional Committee does its work, it evaluates what is the interpretation of the Finnish Constitution and tries to make decisions on it together. However, as the constitutional experts have also pointed out in the public eye, the fact that the bar is drawn just now and just now is not a good goal in a pro-human rights, progressive civilised state that seeks to improve equality and equality between people. This government is very often trying to overshadow and just overshadow, and that is what these constitutional problems are about, for example, that the Chancellor of Justice himself said in a newspaper interview that this government has certain types of fundamental rights problems. He referred to austerity laws and he referred to human rights issues, which means that he too has pointed out that there have been problems in these matters and that the government should look in the mirror. It is not good for Finland's international reputation, and it is not good for those asylum seekers who are practically in an unjust state on that street because of your decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u60	Mr President! A Member of Parliament I very much appreciate. In a group speech in the centre, Mr Tölli called for committee work on major projects, particularly those going beyond the parliamentary term. During the last period, the parliamentary working group prepared the reform of the social economy. Both the government and the opposition were involved in the preparations, and you, Prime Minister Sipilä, in particular, called for this as the leader of the opposition. Now, however, the government has ignored the parliamentary preparation of the opposition, but I warmly support the representative. The idea of returning to parliamentary preparation also with this huge social and health reform, and the Left Alliance is ready to take part in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u61	Madam President! It is clear that both the opposition and the media play an important role in examining the quality of legislative work. At the same time, we opposition politicians, like the media, have a great responsibility for the direction in which public opinion and perception of our work develops. When I followed the news stream myself in the week after Christmas, on some days from one hour to an hour, I noticed how the wrong news released this morning was corrected later during the day. One of the big news at the time was the poor level of legislative preparation. However, the half-truth published this morning remained alive in most media, and it also remained a common concept among people. Mr President! There are challenges in the preparation of legislative work and they must be recognised, but the best outcome is that we here together, the opposition and the government, are seeking solutions to these problems and challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u62	Mr President! At the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs invited the Heads of State or Government of the various ministries to be heard. The purpose of this was to hear their views on how good lawmaking could be developed. One message I heard from them was that the randomness of political guidance and the involvement in various points, often at the wrong point, make it difficult to draw up consistent legislation. This question, which I have in mind, is whether the composition of the government is reflected in any way, the ability of the government to act, the way in which the law is being drafted. When this Sipilä government started, it seemed that a good, cooperative government would be obtained. There was talk of an open office and of a good mind that started, but then in November it was known that after a very painful solution the government was able to continue when some kind of preliminary compromise was found on the social solution. Last season, the government’s ability to cooperate at the end of it ceased and was in a very weak position. This is probably reflected in the level of legislative drafting. How, Prime Minister, do you assess the impact of the government's ability to act on how the drafting of the law develops?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u63	Mr Arhinmäki before Mr Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u64	Madam President! There have really been problems with the Constitution here, at least in statements, and the Finnish Constitution has been questioned. But more generally, in the impact assessment, if we look at the legislation that has been brought to Parliament or is planned, and compare it with the last period, for example, when estimates were made of the impact of legislation on income differentials, poverty, these have been left entirely undone by the government. I am thinking, for example, of raising the fees for day care or abolishing the housing allowance for pensioners. They had to be overthrown by the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u65	Secretary Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u66	Mr President! As Minister for Administrative Development, a few aspects of this debate: First of all, we will not be able to make any progress here by accusing each other, but we must look forward and seek solutions that will help both this government and future governments. It is obvious that high-quality legislation and good governance go hand in hand. That's the basic thing to start with. Well, what are we gonna do now? A year ago, I set up a working group led by Vice-Judge Seppo Tiitinen to consider the development of a single government and also the introduction and development of parliamentary committee work. We know that there have been many parliamentary committees over the years, but it may be that in the role they used to play, they do not exactly sit here. But there is a representative in this work, among other things. With Mr Töllik and many other distinguished parliamentarians and social influences, we will have a better opportunity after the end of March to assess this work of the Tiitinen Group, including with regard to this parliamentary committee work and the committee work as a whole. Then another issue that needs to be raised more in the legislative work is the open preparation: that the preparation will take place in due time, in open consultation with stakeholders and in search of working methods, that for those who are covered by this legislation, its effects will be brought to light and known before the consultation stage. For my part, for example, I have put in open preparation a complex law such as the new general law on information management. It is now being carried out in workshops and is able to see how these aspects can be better taken into account at this stage in the preparation of legislation. Mr President! I would also like to point out that, at the end of the year, from the Ministry of Finance, both Minister Orpo and the undersigned and Minister of Justice, Lindström, we jointly invited expert bodies to a joint meeting to examine how the contribution of these expert organisations could be better taken into account in this legislative preparation and, in particular, impact assessments. Among other things, the Bank of Finland, Sitra, Kela, the National Economic Research Centre and other well-established entities were invited to participate in this work. This work is led by Tuulia Hakola, and when I explained what was going on today, one of the things that emerged from it was the fact that the ministries themselves have very little of this impact assessment capacity and that it should be increased. Someone here mentioned that the information service has been used, and it might be good for the government to have, for example, a co-operation body to support various ministries in matters of social security and taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u67	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u68	Madam President! It is well known that during the last parliamentary term the social welfare reform ran into the Constitution and this government received it as a gift for tomorrow. Of course, the war is a warning example of how political and schedule pressure will lead to a qualitatively, administratively and legally unsustainable proposal. But I have to say that this compromise and the clashes with the Constitution have grown, and the legislative projects that have been launched with a great deal of power are one after the other. One example of this is the legislative projects aimed at labour market reform or the most recent example of effective repentance or doubling of fines. Prior to these SOS periods, Justice Ministers have also intervened in a proposal by the Government in which the shortcomings identified by the Ministry of Justice have not been corrected. It's not so dangerous for lawyers to argue, but it's crazy now that there's no lawyer around the board table at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u69	Mr President! Of course, we must remember this time-long curve, which is what these problems are in this debate, and this has been a debate of this kind for many parliamentary years. But it is a lack of all of us that things are still not in the same position as we all would like to be. But it is good that the government has intervened in this matter. The Prime Minister's message was good: this is what we are doing, and we must do better and we must do better. I believe that this is the direction we are going. After all, the government's programme itself is strategic. When we talk about canceling some projects, the goal, the goals, will remain, but if any means, the measure will prove to be bad in a more detailed examination or even in a consultation, then I do not think it is a shame that the mind can then be changed. After all, these consultation rounds must have some meaning, and when that is the case, then the situation can be re-evaluated as necessary. But, Mr President, I was left with this request from the SDP for new ministers to the government. You said you'd start with the Attorney General, for example. I'm sure there's a basis for that. But what is your view, how many more ministers you want, with what number of ministers you believe in government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u70	Mr President! When it comes to quality and resources, then they are usually needed. As I said in my speech, savings do not always come from saving. How much civil service work has been wasted, for example, over the past year on these legislative projects? Are these tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of euros? That's what we need to figure out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u71	Mr President! The Constitution and the Constitution, the international treaties are extremely important and important in this world. I'm sure everyone will agree on that. But then you have to think about their role as well. The Constitution must not completely undermine the mandate of the MPs elected by the people. So the election is important. In other words, the Constitution does not do all the politics; it is the cornerstone of how MPs can act by a majority during a single parliamentary term. And that is what the interpretation is about: how does the Constitution set the limits and what the role of ordinary politics is. And now, especially in this speech by the Greens, a very strong taste of politics, that is to say, the Constitution is beginning to make a policy like a bit of an overkill when it is claimed that the government has a negative attitude towards human rights, a government programme has been set above the Constitution. Let me just remind you that, in accordance with the Constitution, the opposition parties and the government parties have unanimously adopted almost all the proposals during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u72	Mr President! Finland has a prestigious, internationally respected constitution, and it is worth upholding. Although the need for a constitutional court is sometimes raised in the debate, the Constitutional Committee generally works well. It is clear that the values of the government — the values of every government — are reflected in how high or how low the basic conditions of the Constitution are being exceeded, and that is part of politics. But instead, as has already been mentioned here, there will be problems if some decisions are not taken to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I would like to ask the Minister for Justice, Mr Lindström, for an assessment and tools on how, in future, to ensure that, in the event of unclear situations or increased knowledge, matters are brought before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in order to ensure the right and best possible outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u73	Madam Speaker! Indeed, there is a much longer perspective to the fact that we are having this debate, which is extremely important. Many speakers have pointed out the problem of constant urgency. This is the mirror of time. And on the one hand, we are in a very paradoxical situation where, in recent years, the differences between parties have perhaps been smaller than ever in the history of our independence, but, nevertheless, it can be said that political preparation and political direction have been in crisis. During the previous term of the government, we were able to taste it in many ways. That there must also be a serious debate here on how to develop and promote the governance systems of political guidance, and many good things have already been raised by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u74	Värderade Talman! Välfärd och resurser måste kapas innan de fördelas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u75	Mr President! A good example of weak lawmaking was the development company Vake Oy, which was approved in December. In this important draft law amending ownership policy, there were no sound grounds for legislative changes or proper impact assessments, and the Legislative Review Council was already critical of this at the preparatory stage. So did the National Audit Office, which drew attention to the lack of legislative drafting. Unfortunately, however, the impact was limited and it is worth asking whether the comments made by these authoritative evaluation bodies should not be taken more seriously in the drafting of the law. Mr President! In addition to the justifications and impact assessments of individual draft laws, the interaction of several simultaneous legislative proposals with the public should be assessed. For example, social security cuts, medical reimbursement cuts, customer fees increases affect the same poor Finns, and in such situations synergies assessments should be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u76	Madam President! The level of good legislation and ensuring it in this country is certainly common to all of us, and this was very well mentioned, among other things, in the Prime Minister's speech, but there are two things to remember in this debate on the Constitution. The second is that new documents, reports, U-letters and others are constantly coming from the level of the European Union, which, among other things, require the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deliver its opinions on a frequent and timely basis, at worst with a week or even a few days. It sets very strict limits for us and requires a great deal. I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been very clear about this task. The second point is that, now that we are in a tight economic time, we will have to cut down on various benefits, so easily the opposition is saying that this is not constitutional. That is not the case at all. It is not a question of a constitution to measure central government finances in the right proportions with regard to existing resources, as long as we only ensure that relations between people are not violated and that the weakest people are taken care of. The committee will take good care of this and, in my view, will be able to do its job reasonably well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u77	Madam President! There is no limit to Green populism when today we have compared the preparation of Finnish legislation with Hungarian or Polish legislation or the lack of respect for human rights. The government is being reprimanded that the government is withdrawing its proposals. There are three government proposals withdrawn this season. The Act of Integration and the Law of Effective Repentance were constitutional aspects of which there were different views and were therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u82	Mr President! In his own speech, Prime Minister Sipilä stressed the need for parliamentarians to take account of the constitutional requirements in all their activities and pointed out the idea that MPs should be placed in a law-making course. I would like the government itself to take the Constitution seriously and listen to the constitutional experts. However, it is a fact that during this period many constitutional scholars have been very concerned about the tendency of the government to test and test the Constitution, and I find it very sad that this debate can, as it were, conclude that the government is still not taking this debate seriously and is not prepared to correct its attitude. But this lack of resources is also highlighted. Because just before Christmas, I was meeting officials from various departments of the Ministry of Finance,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u83	Mr President! It is true that the government has withdrawn its three legislative proposals, but in order to refresh your memory, I will tell you what else has been withdrawn. Maybe a minute isn't enough. Change in capital tax, change in solidarity tax, institutional fusion with the Finnish Environment Agency and the Finnish Natural Resources Centre, cutback in housing allowance for pensioners, continuation of the programme to combat the informal economy, cancellation of cuts in police financial crime appropriations, cancellation of cuts in investment grants for student housing, reduction of reimbursement costs, withdrawal of the management register project, freezing and cancellation of cuts in VR's purchasing traffic, withdrawal of forced labour laws, cancellation of the increase in daily care fees, cancellation of privatisation of interviews with unemployed persons, cancellation of index cuts for veterans, cancellation of the merger between the Ombudsman for Equality and the Ombudsman for Equality, withdrawal of the cut in carership, cancellation of cuts in integration aid for immigrants, cancellation of motorcycling and boat tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u84	Madam President! When I am such a simple country boy from Härma, I do not quite understand what the harm is when a political idea or project is cancelled or changed, if more information is obtained, if it is discovered that it does not work. That is why it would be a silly policy if we were to take a thought forward, so that the opposition would not laugh at us here in the Chamber. I think it shows the government flexibility, good consideration of the situation picture, even such trendy resistance that these have been changed and corrected when it is discovered that, for example, some tax law does not work. As far as this monitoring of the constitutionality of draft laws is concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been able to do its job well for a hundred years. During this period too, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has addressed some of the problems and, if necessary, the legislative proposals have been amended. But I agree with those who say that the Constitution should not be politicised. It must not be underestimated, but not everything is constitutional. The Constitution is the rules of the game,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u85	Madam President! It is true that the government has indeed withdrawn these rather cruel surgical intentions. Last time, it was good that the government also cancelled the tax on boats and motorcycles, the deduction of the pensioner's housing allowance, the increases in daily care fees for families with children. That is the case, the government has withdrawn them, the opposition has put pressure on them. But here we come to this question: why is the government making these crazy proposals at all? It will also take time and certainly a great deal of resources to produce them. If the government could be certain in the first place that such unjust and very cruel decisions would not even be worth considering, it would already save resources for drafting laws and decisions. That is why, at least in Tammelantori, Tampere, it is very often said that the government withdraws all its foolish decisions, and the government is very well known for it. The common sense question, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, is common sense: why should we even consider such foolish proposals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u86	Mr President! As has now been said about the tone of voice, it is important. I am glad that the majority of the representatives and parties here take this issue seriously and really want to develop our legislation. Then there is the small part which here too sees the opportunity to make party politics. Here the Chancellor of Justice has been referred to many times and used as a punching gun, but has the fact not been brought up many times already? He himself has stated that there has been no deterioration in the level of legislation and that it has even previously called for more comments. He gave clear numbers: 13% of the Government's agendas have called for comments during this period, previously 10 or even 20 percent. There's something to develop. This government has set up a Legislative Evaluation Council and it is already a new measure that we are taking forward the level of legislation in relation to the previous parliamentary term. This government has tabled 427 proposals, three of which have been withdrawn, as has been said here. It is important to be precise: the rest has either been modified, it has been decided not to carry them out in the preparatory phase or it has only been an analysis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u87	Värderade Talman! Constitution, human rights, equality. If the views of the representatives of the government parties on these issues are of interest, the protocol to the referral debate on integration aid is interesting but not beautiful to read. The Chancellor of Justice stated that, because of political pressure and for reasons of timetable, there was no desire to bring matters before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — in the opinion of Mr Jonka. I can't do this. Constitutionalism is an absolute requirement, the resources must be sufficient, and the timetable must be at a level appropriate to the complexity of the proposal. One of the ill-considered election promises of the Prime Minister Party was the commitment to reduce the number of ministers, just as the honourable Member said there, and this has been discussed before. Of course, the problems do not depend only on this, but it does not make it any easier. I repeat, Prime Minister, the question raised earlier: would it be an opportune opportunity to reverse this rash approach and see that the employment situation requires the undivided attention of one minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u88	Madam President! Thank you for the second speech. If the situation in Finland is as bad as the Greens and some others suggest, then it would be easy to answer the question I have asked which country has better regard for fundamental and human rights than in Finland. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u89	Madam President! Many speeches here have looked back on the level of legislative drafting, and it is worth noting that there is room for improvement for this government as well as it has certainly always been for previous governments from time to time. However, the Group of the Christian Democrats raised a point on which we could all do good and better legislative work. In fact, this is also linked to the presentation by the representative. Mr Tölli raised this point in his own speech — Mr Pekonen also referred to it. We have a huge legislative package, the social legislation. Would this not be exactly the kind of package that should be brought to that committee and prepared? These legislative proposals are currently falling: there is freedom of choice, there is funding, there is administration, incorporation, provincial administration, state aid reform, on-call regulation. These all come here as individual performances. Who is this entity? Yesterday I got a call from a municipal candidate who said, "Sari, I have a municipal election panel in front of me, there's talk of war, I don't understand anything about it."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u90	Since the time allocated for the debate is beginning to come to an end here, representatives of Tolvanen and Heinäluoma and then the ministers are coming to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u91	Mr President! The level of lawmaking has therefore been a long-standing concern, as we have heard here. This mutual gloves here is pointless, it does not improve the level of lawmaking at all. But it is important that we get our legislation in a better way. It does not exclude that interpretation [PaavoArhinmäki intercommunication— President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u92	Mr President! The fact is that last December the Chancellor of Justice made a very hard speech with a very harsh criticism that startled society as a whole. Since then, he's been rounding it up. When I listened to Mr Kurvise’s speech, it came to mind that things are in such good shape that Prime Minister Sipilä has made an announcement about a pointless matter that we are spending time talking about the level of legislative preparation on the wrong issues here. However, I do not think this is the case. It's okay to train MPs. There is a Forest Academy, there is an Energy Academy and many others, but let me remind you of the old fact in Finland that cleaning the stairs starts at the top. The government would have to look at what it does differently in order to get rid of this long-standing debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u93	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u94	Madam President! As I said in my presentation, the starting point for the government's work is respect for the Constitution and the fundamental rights guaranteed by it. As I said, the strong rule of law is one of the key strengths of a 100-year-old Finland. The rule of law needs a culture of open, constructive, factual and mutual respect. Let us hope that Parliament can serve as an example here. This board of directors set up an evaluation board over a year ago. This was a successful decision, but, as has been said many times, this process can and must be improved and we continue to do so. As far as the criticism of legislative work is concerned, the government takes it very seriously. However, as has been said several times in this Chamber, the Chancellor of Justice said in this Chamber last week that the constitutional problems, shortcomings or proposals for corrections in the draft laws have remained broadly at the same level throughout what he has been in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. Just a few comments. First of all, there are indeed three of these withdrawn government proposals. The previous government had five at this time, so far. Then we must also ask how many points were made in the decision on structural policy that was taken after the mid-term. Then I'd like to make a few comments here. The government has not proposed that children should not be given legal aid. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary for this child's right to be written into the law, and that is what Parliament did, and that is what it should do. Comparing Finland with Hungary or Poland is very far-fetched. The representative who presented this also knows. The emergency services regulations carried out a careful review of fundamental rights. The figures for the car trade from January were also wrong. They grew by about 10 per cent. The district court reform had good impact assessments. They were praised by the Evaluation Council. As far as resources are concerned, I received a message from the meeting of Heads of State that you should employ them, that you should also challenge them in the second half of the reign. They are prepared to make further reforms. Don't just drop it, there was a message. I went to ask about these resources, especially the legislative resources, and they said that they are tight from time to time, but they said that they also have the right to seek outside help when it is available. Resources are constantly being considered, both on the civil servants' resources and on the number of ministers we hold from time to time. We've found that we're doing well on this team. This government will tackle the problems, we will correct the processes and we will be happy to accept the related proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u95	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u96	Madam President! If I start here with what the Prime Minister referred to: the withdrawal of these proposals. Long lists were also heard on matters for which there is no proposal, and those should then have been withdrawn — motions that have not yet been submitted. I refer to this inconceivable presentation of the privatisation of unemployed interviews, which has not been given. That's a very strange interpretation. But it is, of course, a good thing that the opposition is expressing its own views. The proposal by the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, to bring this legislative drafting under the same roof is an interesting proposal and would certainly add value and boost this legislative drafting. We have only recently come under the same roof of the Ministry of Justice, all the actors, and I believe it will bring power to it. And this sort of thing that would otherwise be under the same roof during all the preparations, is an interesting presentation. Then there was this sort of problematic change of attitude between Alanko-Kahiluoto and Niinistö, the Greens, to try the Constitution. As far as I'm concerned, it's a representative. Mr Tölli made an excellent speech. I have personally understood that the Constitutional Committee is precisely the kind of committee that resolves these issues, makes preliminary decisions, makes views and then goes on. [Ville Niinistö’s interlude] In fact, the Prime Minister has already answered this question or doubt whether something has been said that no legal aid has been given to children. There's no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u97	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u98	Mr President! In the vote last Friday, the authentic marriage citizens' initiative did not receive the support of the majority in Parliament, and as a result 1.3. The basis of our marriage law is changing. From a gender-based marriage of man and woman to a gender-neutral marriage, this change and its effects do not apply only to a small, marginal minority. Its cultural impact is greater than that of the proponents of the project during the process. The legislation that enters into force is in many ways poorly prepared. It lacks an assessment of the impact of children, as well as an assessment of the impact on the realisation of freedom of expression and religion. Human convictions and world views do not change 1.3. Even after that, some Finns hold marriage only between men and women, and it has to be said that that change in March will fragment the concept of marriage in society. For example, in the case of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, this is already tearing open the church as some priests intend to marry couples of the same sex, yet the church, under the leadership of bishops and under the leadership of the Council, has clearly outlined and confirmed that marriage in the church should and should only be made between men and women. So the legislation is currently driving the church into a difficult situation. Mr President! Two statements have been distributed on the tables under the name of Mrs Antero Laukkanen, which I am sure will be further justified here. One is specifically concerned with the practice of consecration of churches and religious communities and the other is about adoption legislation. We have agreed with Mr Laukkanen that he will make that first statement and, Mr President, I shall now make a proposal for that second statement. I would like to suggest that "the Parliament requires the government to start preparing legislation that safeguards the right of the surrenderors to influence the choice of family form in the child's investment", i.e. I propose that Parliament approve this second proposal for a statement. On this point, I would like to say that, in connection with the preparation of the marriage law, there was concern that the adoption of the marriage of same-sex persons may make it difficult for Finnish adoption candidates to adopt internationally, because we know that some of the countries of origin do not accept the placement of a child in same-sex couples. And if some of these adoption routes close, then everyone will suffer. The adoption processes that may already exist need to be suspended and the interruption or blocking of adoption processes is not in the interests of these children. In this case, there would be fewer children to be adopted, and I would stress that the waiting times for all couples, including those of the same sex, would be prolonged. In the current situation, couples of the same sex do not have the opportunity to adopt from countries or bodies that do not recognise this gender-neutral marriage. The current adoption law defines the principles for the placement of a child, and the explanatory memorandum of the law states that the article applies only to domestic adoptions of a foreign child, but that the principles arising from this provision can also be applied, where applicable, when granting permits for international adoption. The adoption law should therefore include an increase in the various forms of family that take into account the change in the law on marriage, enabling the child’s parents and other adopters to influence the choice of family form in the child’s investment. This amendment would improve the acquisition of adoption children when the amending law enters into force and would safeguard the right of adoption applicants to international adoption also from countries that have not accepted the marriage of same-sex couples. I would also like to stress that it is fair and also clear from the legal point of view that international adoption and domestic adoption, both of them, are subject to the same principles as regards the rights of the adopters. This proposed change, which is therefore proposed in this effort, would primarily improve the right of children to adopt parents, reduce conflict situations with adoptors and avoid prolonging adoption processes. Norwegian legislation has this type of principle. And when, last season, Parliament adopted this law on marriage of the same sex, no child impact assessment was carried out, neither was an assessment of the situation of adoptive children in this regard, and this is indeed inadequate in this respect. I would also like to say, Mr President, about this second effort, which Mr Laukkanen will shortly make very clear, that this is a very important issue and an important proposal for the autonomy of the churches. It is incomprehensible and it is truly contradictory for religious communities and churches, for the self-determination of churches, if, contrary to the doctrine and decisions of the church, a simple change of law can lead to action contrary to what is required by the doctrine of the church. And I would remind Members that, as long as the legislation on the registration of relationships or this same-sex marriage has been discussed here, it has been repeatedly stated in the committees' reports as well as in this Chamber debate that this does not want to affect the decision-making of the churches, but that the churches themselves are allowed to make their own decisions. Now we see the situation. The Evangelical Lutheran Church has clearly drawn the line that only couples are married between men and women, and yet we see that 1.3. possibly a completely different practice begins simply because of the legislation adopted by Parliament, which violates the autonomy of the church, violates the right of the church to self-determination by its own doctrine and practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u99	We can take this stage with a short debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u100	Mr President! Mr Räsänen stated that no assessment of the impact on children was carried out with regard to legislation. Spade of the kettle: The Committee on Legal Affairs wanted to carry out an impact assessment on children. With regard to this citizens' initiative, the Christian Democrats and the Finns-based opposed an assessment of the impact of children. Mr President! This equal marriage law, which comes into force on 1.3., which is a happy thing, a happy thing for the majority of the Finnish people, has exceptionally strong support behind it. The majority of the people support it, the majority of Parliament supported it last season, and now again the position of this Parliament, which is between 120 and 48 in favour of an equal marriage law. I thought it was a worthless play and unreasonable for people to be held in doubt for so long as this law enters into force. But I think it is right that the report should be put to the vote and that it has now been adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u101	Mr President! I would have asked Mr Arhinmäki how you see this issue of freedom of religion being fulfilled here, when one of these statements is aimed specifically at ensuring that the autonomy of churches and religious communities is preserved from their own doctrine. Do you see any contradiction in what the situation in Finland on 1.3. comes into force, when some church priests, for example, have announced that they will marry couples of the same sex even though there is no wedding plan in the church for this purpose? Here I would point out the example of Norway. In the past, Norway made a clear statement in the legislation stating that if the religious community does not have a liturgy about this, then such a marriage will not be valid. Today, the Lutheran Church of Norway is consecrating same-sex couples, but this was the church’s own decision, not so that the secular legislator makes the situation so unclear that the autonomy and religious freedom of churches
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u102	Mr President! The starting point for me and the left in politics is always that politics and religion should not be confused. It is very important that, on a personal level, everyone should have the right to their own religion, to practice religion, to operate in religious communities, regardless of what these communities are, in accordance with Finnish law. And that is also why this law does not force any church or religious community to marry couples. But the fact that there is currently at least a discussion within the Evangelical Lutheran Church about whether to marry is an indication that the church is also changing and that society is changing, and that there are priests who say that they are going to marry reflects the change that is in Finnish society. That change is likely to come when the majority of Finns support this, even at some point in time influence church decisions. But it is the church's own and independent decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u103	Mr President! It is good that the KD is allowed to make politics according to its own ideology, as is the case with the left. Let us insist that everyone is allowed to make a policy according to their own values. With regard to this impact assessment on children, last season we wanted an impact assessment on children. It didn't interest the other side. They were not interested in how this affects children. Then came these accompanying laws. There would still have been an opportunity to carry out an impact assessment on children, still not interested. Now that we would have liked to preserve its current state of affairs, that is, the current law, we should carry out an assessment of the impact of children on the current state of affairs. Child impact assessments should be carried out when a new law comes into force. We have already seen that this current legislation has worked very well, and it is indeed a pity that this time we have lost out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u104	Mr President! It is a real shame that this debate has sometimes become a little too intense, but, for my part, I would like to say in this matter that, in my opinion, the situation of children, in the turmoil surrounding this issue of marriage, has become too much of a concern to me. I do not take a position on the decision taken in this House to carry out an impact assessment on children, but the worst part of it is that the position of young children has been almost completely ignored here. The child is the one whose position must be safeguarded under all circumstances, and until now the Finnish State has always assumed the lowest and weakest position. That is not the case here. This is where the desires of adults have taken precedence over the rest, and that is it. But I also regret that this is where the Christian church tradition is thrown away at the same time. We have the same-sex union systems in place with other laws, and that's all it needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u105	Mr. Speaker! The world isn't that black and white about this baby impact assessment. That is not what was done, but during the last parliamentary term, when the Legal Committee dealt with this matter and I was a member there, we did hear 60 experts, including child psychiatrists and many other experts, Save the Children and Mannerheim League for Child Welfare and so on. They explained this role of children, and it was strongly in favour and against, according to the ideology that they represented. That I don't think this child impact assessment would have been a magic word. It's done, but not by this name. When, however, we have couples who have waited a long time for an adoption child from abroad, it is a concern to me here, what has already happened to them and will happen to them, that they will have children just because this law has been adopted — which is justifiable. It has been adopted, and here is a good statement by Mr Laukkanen, this second, that we should be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u106	Mr President! I appreciate the Left Alliance's fact that they really saw it as important that the spirit of the citizens' initiative is to bring it here in the Chamber, and it was a very unanimous decision for them. I also understand that because of the representative Arhinmäki has not had the opportunity to be there in the Legal Committee, so he does not quite know how it went there. When this initiative came to committee in the autumn, the Christian Democrats and the People's People's Party suggested that an impact assessment be carried out on children, but for a number of different reasons which I am not going to go through, it was not done and the situation was delayed. Now that it was proposed last week that it should be done, we no longer wanted to do it because the purpose of this citizens' initiative was to repeal the law that is coming into force 1.3. It would have been impossible then to respect this spirit of the citizens' initiative by doing something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u107	Mr President! There has now been quite a lot of this debate in this Chamber on these issues, and quite often it is precisely this assessment of the impact of children. As the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs has already pointed out, it has already been treated with such a slightly different name in the last period, and it is appropriate to ask: what kind of statements should have been made to change someone's opinion? When it is quite clear that experts, too, had different views as to what that means, what kind of statements should have been made about the fact that the hall was unanimous here? I do not believe that the lack of this issue has now resolved this in one direction or another. Then it must be said, just as Mr Arhinmäki said, that politics and religion should be kept separate and then the church should make the decisions that the church wants to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u108	Mr President! Yes, Mr Arhinmäki, politics is now involved in religion and church affairs. The bishops of the Evangelical Lutheran Church and the Council have very clearly stated that in church marriage means marriage between man and woman, and now a change in legislation alone will cause this situation, which is 1.3. is visible and it would be possible to do otherwise in this respect. That's why they're proposing that boost. Last week, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights proposed that the vote be postponed in a large Chamber after the entry into force of the Equal Marriage Act, and it would have been a worthless play, too, of this
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u109	Mr President! I would like to comment on this magnitude of support for gender-neutral marriage law mentioned by Mr Arhinmäki. Yes, Yle asked the question, and according to that survey, the people would like to see such a so-called equal marriage law. But then, when these questions were put in the right form, as for example the think tank conducted this survey with this kind of external Gallup Company TNS, the survey results were different: when the question was actually asked about this adoption issue, or how many people would welcome the adoption of children into a rainbow family, for example, only 4 per cent supported it, and 62 per cent supported the family form between a man and a woman to which children would be adopted. In other words, now that this marriage law was voted on, unfortunately, many people did not know that we also voted on the adoption of the child outside the family, including among gay and transfusing families, and in that sense this went away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u110	I would like to add the following answers: Mr Kärnä, Mr Tanus, Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Räsänen Päivi, who started the debate, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u111	Mr President! I am now repeating myself in this Chamber with regard to these child impact assessments: At least I am satisfied with an estimate of a 50,000 study conducted at the University of Colorado, which states that there is no difference between a child growing up in a heterosexual family or in a rainbow family. The most important thing for these children is that they have loving parents. I am very pleased with this decision and with the entry into force of the equal marriage law. I think it is a fine Finland 100 decision, which reflects courage and love and freedom. We need more of them in this country. Marriage, of course, from a secular point of view is an economic agreement concluded by two sovereign people. I also believe that, yes, the autonomy of the church must be respected in its own affairs and that religious communities must be able to decide independently how they view marriages of the same sex, but we here are dealing with this matter from a secular point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u112	Mr President! Values and attitudes have largely been in the process of defining this legislation. I would also say to Mr Arhinmäki, when it was a speech about how the minority have followed this debate and how they have experienced it, that I would like to remember that we have a huge number of Finnish citizens who have really mourned, that they are now losing a traditional institution such as marriage. A lot of mail comes from the fact that marriage will not be the kind of institution they have entered into in due course, so that I would like such a respectful attitude toward this majority too. Then, in particular, if we want to keep religion, churches and government separate, I would like to see you really familiar with these statements, because the acceptance of them requires that this should be the case in the future. Similarly, this issue of adoption: if the issue of children is important, it is important to continue adoption, these should be accepted, because I fear that adoptions will end in this country, or
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u113	Mr President! I am glad that, after this debate, we will no longer have to return to this issue in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u116	Mr Räsänen Päivi, on the reply, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u117	Mr President! Let me start here with what Mr Arhinmäki decided. It is true, and we are in particular in favour of the church being allowed to make its own decisions, but it must now be noted that the Council has not taken a decision to legally marry couples of the same sex within the church.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u120	Mr President! I will divide this speech into two parts. The first is the so-called plain language part. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u125	Mr President! In the case of citizens' initiatives, we legislators must pay particular attention to what the signatories believe the initiative means. In connection with the 2013 campaign, it was said that gender-neutral marriage law does not affect churches. Many signed the initiative with that particular observation and provided that it does not affect the churches. This should be the case. It can be seen in the law that the church and all denominations have the right to determine the conditions under which they perform the ceremony. Contrary to the orders of the religious order, the marriage is void. This is natural. If the concept of marriage changes in secular law, the church must have the legal right to stick to its own view. This means that the ceremony provided by the priest of the church is valid only when the priest has performed this ceremony according to the church’s instructions. However, there has been a lack of clarity on this issue, with both legal and human risks. Some clergymen have announced that they are also consecrating couples of the same sex. However, such a couple’s marriage may be legally null and void. As legislators, we should strive to ensure that there is no confusion. That is why I support Mr Räsänen's statement that...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u130	Mr President! Mr Antero Laukkanen took up a very important issue. The whole work description of the priests is based on their own faith and conscience. Professor Urpo Kangas of Civil Law has publicly taken a stand and expressed concern that the right of conscience could be taken away from the clergy. Then what will be left for the priests? This proposal for a statement that "the Parliament requires the government to determine whether the legislation of the law on marriage that will enter into force requires further clarification of the law in order to safeguard the autonomy of churches and other religious communities with regard to wedding practices", I am very much in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u131	Mr President! First of all, I would like to highlight some of the ideas that came to mind earlier in that sitting. Soon, after a couple of years of government and this Parliament’s activities and discussions, I myself have been surprised and confused many times when I listened to the grounds for legislation. Promoting health and well-being is one of the key themes and I have always been the first to do so, because people's well-being or lack of it affects everything in society and it also points to the future of society. With this in mind, particularly the disadvantaged, who themselves cannot pursue their own interests, must also be particularly well taken into account in legislation. What is this particularly vulnerable group? Children, the future of our country — either a good, bright, forward-looking future or a uncertain, confused and lost future. Children and young people react to the events and talks and questions that are being asked around them. I recently heard that here in southern Finland, the referrals from the youth psychiatry clinic have increased by 40 per cent in the early part of the year compared with last year. You just have to wonder why. What was going on in society last year or the last few weeks? What has increased the nausea among young people so much? It is generally known that values and attitudes define each of us's activities and affect and have also contributed to the preparation of legislation. I would also like to add my amazement, my question, to which, despite its repeated raising, I have not received an answer: why have many changes in legislation that have a key impact on children and young people not been fully evaluated? This large number of studies from across the pond from the United States, to which reference has been made a few times, really does not stand up to critical evaluation when it comes to scientific research. There has often been talk in this Chamber about the welfare of children and young people and its importance, but this most important population group for the future of society as a whole has been completely non-salted in legislative work. Now that we are thinking of this amendment of the marriage law, these statements, both marriage and adoption, are also very closely and central to the welfare of children and children. In this context, I would also like to reiterate what I have already said about this place: when there has been a debate on the citizens' initiative "A genuine marriage" and many people have pointed out how minorities feel when it comes to discussing this again and again, I hope that the debate will also remember the fact that there are tens of thousands of married couples in the kingdom who mourn — who mourned last Thursday's debate, mourned on Friday — because Finland breaks down in legislation as one of the key elements. Not that they wanted to resist or are resisting other people's... — as I have said myself, there could have been married in a marriage and others in marriage — but we really have grieving couples, many today in Finland. Let us remember them with respect. But with regard to this ceremony, I would like to say that I support the statements made by both Mrs Räsänen and Mr Laukkanen. True legislation in Finland recognises the autonomy of religious communities, and it was also stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Law amending the Law on Marriage that the law does not interfere with the right of religious communities to determine who they married. However, the laws and practices of marriage are scattered in the Law of Marriage, the Church Law and the Church Order, and there is already uncertainty as to whether a valid church marriage can be carried out contrary to the forms and conditions prescribed by the religious community. The legal situation is therefore unclear, so it should be clarified by Parliament, and I would really like every single Member of Parliament to be familiar with what this means. I do not think that anyone would want to see more tearing up confrontations, court proceedings and so on, as far as marriage is concerned or its legality. In order not to do so, this statement should be adopted by Parliament. Then, as far as adoption is concerned: As the marriage law changes, the continuity and scope of adoption activities must be safeguarded. This is clear and very important for both children in need of adoption and for all parents wishing to adopt. Legislation must ensure that adoption is as smooth as possible even when the concept of marriage of the parent, organisation or state giving up the adoption of a child differs from that of Finland. I would think that, for over 25 years as a doctor, I myself, working with families and couples who have worked very hard, know how painful it is to be infertile. It is a process that affects thousands of couples in Finland. Let's hope and wish, and there won't be a child of our own. When you give up that wish, you ask yourself, ‘ Are we going to go into the adoption process? ’ It's a big, big decision. Today, if we have a pregnancy that started with fertility treatments, in which a woman is in a lesbian relationship, adoption takes place very conveniently and quickly. I explained it, so if such a couple contact social services in Helsinki, for example, before childbirth, they can already prepare papers, and after childbirth there is only one visit there and the signature and dispatch of some papers, and in about a couple of weeks this adoption process is clear. An entirely different situation is when, for example, a child of one’s spouse is wanted to be adopted in a secondary family. It's a long process. Then, when you look at external adoption, which happens from abroad, it is a really long process and it is excruciating to many. I understand that a gender-neutral marriage law has been adopted in only a few countries in the world. It has been said that it is legal in 18 countries and in the United States in just a few states. If we think about what has already happened, for example, the adoption routes of the eastern neighbor have closed: there are a huge number of children in St. Petersburg who are waiting for a loving home. Adoptions. People who are waiting for family. The fairway's closed. Many other countries that could be countries for adoption do not even start it because they do not accept the gender-neutral marriage law. That is why I would see it very important for all those who want to have an adoption child that this second proposal be adopted. This would also allow these countries, which have already closed their corridors, or possibly new countries, where there is a great need for adoption families, to open up their routes. This also means, of course, that when the families of the father and mother in the adoption line move faster, then, of course, the families of the minority can also have an adoption child more quickly from those countries that adopt a gender-neutral marriage law. However, I think we have a lot of children waiting for adoptive families. We have many families who suffer from infertility. And so that adoptions from abroad do not stop altogether in this country, I really hope that this statement on adoption will also be adopted in this country. No more pain will be inflicted, not on families or on children who are expecting adoptive parents. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u132	Mr President! There have been a lot of good speeches here, but once again. These promises that the church will be free to decide on its wedding practices seem to have been forgotten even before this law has even entered into force. I understand that here in the capital region a few priests have already made a promise that they will marry the same sex as soon as this law has entered into force, so the legal situation of the church has now been left a little confused. In practice, individual pastors can do or at least test, do whatever they want. It is therefore necessary to remedy the legislative shortcomings and I support both the statement made by Mr Laukkanen and the statement made by Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u133	Mr President! In order to respect religious freedom and the right of religious communities to decide for themselves their own religious practices and their own doctrines, they should have the right and the opportunity to decide on their attitude in a very normal order, such as in the Evangelical Lutheran Church, precisely through the decisions of the Council and through the adoption of the church law, on what practices are taken within the church. That is also what the Members of Parliament, even those who have supported this legislation, have referred to in various speeches, and this has also been referred to in the reports by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, but we now know that 1.3. we are faced with a very confused situation where even from outside, the legal scholars interpret that the practices of marriage that some church priests are going to follow mean a legal and valid marriage ceremony. The church, as it were, will have to adjust to the situation without its own decisions. I do not believe that the autonomy and freedom of religion of these denominations will then be respected. I would also like to say that when we talked about the impact assessment on children, Mr Kärnä referred to some of the studies. Now, of course, the impact assessment on children is quite different from certain studies, but I would like to ask you to look at a very extensive study in Canada, where there is clear evidence that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u134	Mr President! I believe that the citizens' initiative to maintain a genuine marriage between a man and a woman is to be welcomed, as I have said many times. I am deeply saddened by the fact that, with the current situation in which Finland has drifted on this issue, this is what is causing it, as Mr Räsänen has just described very well that it is not. This kind of problem is caused by state law, which decentralizes the church's activities and certainly affects the economic situation of its church. That old way of managing things is to break up, divide et impera, we all know that. Now that we've gone down this road, don't you think? In the work of the church and in the work of the churches in general — the churches are autonomous — when their financial position deteriorates, it will lead to the loss of the capacity of those most in need of help, which the congregations have given to people in need in this time, without fail. Yes, this legislation, although it has been proved during this debate that this has no impact, has a huge impact on the infrastructure of our society. That has not been an honest debate in this Chamber. This is just going to happen, and that is an indisputable fact. I just hope we get through with the smallest dents we can. The greatest sadness I feel is that marriage between a man and a woman in this Christian tradition loses the remarkable value that this society has. The family is a basic cell of Finnish society, and it has always been a basic cell of Finnish society, and it will always be. I hope that this too will, of course, be dealt with in some way, but I do not think that the government, through its own actions, should be allowed to go ahead and make the fundamental issue of the basic structure of Finnish society more difficult. I am deeply saddened by this situation, and I cannot accept it, but the majority say that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u135	Mr President! This debate may seem a bit of a stallion at this stage, partly because, as I said last week, none of us will be able to come up with the first new argument, not for or against, and, on the other hand, because this matter has been resolved once and again at the end of 2014 and again last Thursday, in an orderly manner and an equal marriage law will enter into force on Wednesday next week. But on the other hand, words can fit into the world, so let's just talk. Congressman Tanus referred to the people who mourn over this matter. To them, I would like to say that we do not have to mourn, but rather we should be glad that the marriage institution is now expanding to people who want to show their love by getting married but who, within the framework of the present system, are not allowed to do this or marry. Now, on the contrary, the institution of marriage is strengthened, because more and more persons who cannot marry today are now getting married to someone they truly love. Let us be happy about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u136	All right, now we've got a few debatable remarks to make. I give the floor to the following representatives: Mr Östman, Mr Tanus and Mr Räsänen Päivi, and then Mr Wallin, who started the debate, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u137	Congressman Wallin here claimed that there was nothing new. I would like to ask Mrs Wallin that, when you were involved in this campaign of will 2013 — you were in the very beginning — a strong argument was used that religious communities and churches have an autonomous right to decide on their wedding practices. What's going on? Have you been watching? I mean, we know that you're not. In the case of the church, it is the Council that decides on this matter, but we have already seen, as I said in the previous speech, that some priests here in Helsinki are going to make a fuss at the very beginning that they are going to marry. Isn't this something new we should discuss? Don't you think this is a problem? Then you will betray the promise you have promised that the churches will have the right to decide, because this is a confusing situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u138	Mr President! Representative Wallin: really that love for this world is needed more for each of us, that we should certainly learn to love each other better and more, not to mention that relationship. If there were a situation here that some are getting married, for example, to a couple and others are getting married, then the situation would be different, but now it is really 1.3. The gender-neutral marriage law comes into force and is a very sad situation for many. Marriage itself will not change as a basic institution between man and woman, as a basic unit of society it will remain in the minds of many of us, but many Members and citizens do not really understand, understand that we are now at a much greater crossroads. Oras Tynkkynen once said that registered partnership was just an initial shot,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u139	Mr President! This is not a matter of delay, Mrs Wallin. We voted on Friday and lost the vote. Now we are talking about two forces. The second is about the autonomy of religious communities and this particular situation of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, and the second is about the right to adopt, and the problem that this new legislation is causing us to weaken the access of adoptive children to international adoptions. You may not have been listening to this debate, but when you have been a minister of ecclesiastical affairs, I would like you to take a stand now on this issue of church autonomy. Is it not the Council itself that is the body that should be allowed to decide how the church is to be conducted? It's all right. It's all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u140	Mr President! At the beginning, I said that none of us can come up with any new arguments, neither for nor against. I am still in favour of what was read in this citizens' initiative that the issue of marriage is a matter for the Church itself, and I understand that none of us have tried to intervene. The fact that individual priests or laity members of the Council want to question this or start consecrating people is not a fact that comes out of our mouths, but is done by these people themselves. I cannot promise anything on behalf of church members or members of the council or on behalf of priests. All I can do is promise what I have promised when I started to promote this matter. It is then up to the church and the church people to decide what they are doing. It's outside of our competence, and that's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u141	We shall now proceed to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u142	Mr President! I think that if anyone thinks about the well-being of Finnish society and living together in peace, a society in which there is room for everyone, then we should act in such a way that there is no more confrontation, torn disputes or so on. These two proposals are very important and I cannot think that any Member of Parliament who is really familiar with them can oppose them. I took a national defense class for three and a half weeks, and there was a lot of talk about hybrid influence. One of the important ways I thought that Finland has already been implemented is through this confrontation of citizens: raising headlines, encouraging topics for discussion and forms of phrases that cause a lot of controversy and confrontation. I think it would be appropriate for each one of us to look in the mirror and wonder if we could not find a way and a route in which one can walk side by side or drive along adjacent lanes. Then on that adoption issue, I recently had a conversation with a young man who said, "Well, isn't it the same?" I said that if I lived abroad and had a family, like children, and then something happened to the father of the children and something happened to me, so that my child should be given for adoption, would it not be right for me to determine, for example, that my hope is that my children will go into a family with a father and a mother? Some other family may think okay, there are two mothers or two fathers, but if I wanted my children to have both a father and a mother, would it not be fair,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u143	Mr President! I came here in the toilet if this speech doesn't go through in two minutes. First of all, I would like to warmly support both: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here I quote quite a bit from Hiienkoski's blog, and I have done a lot of research myself. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when you are about to accept this gender-neutral marriage, this is only the prelude to the future. Those of us who appreciate these Christian things... I'm very sad that what's going to happen. The world ahead, that’s what Finland is after, and that’s what’s going to happen. As far as the amendment of the law comes into force, the human rights of those who adhere to the traditional concept of marriage are under threat. Based on experience from abroad, the amendment of the law is also expected to affect the educational content of educational institutions from early childhood education to universities, and this is already the case here in the Finnish Parliament. It is therefore essential that each of us is genuinely guaranteed the right to freedom of opinion, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and conscience, and the right to choose the education to be given to his children on the concept of marriage. This means that those who adhere to an organic concept of marriage have a legal right to have their opinions and to acquire, receive and disseminate their views through all media. Those who adhere to the traditional concept also have the right to recognise religion and express their conviction that marriage is only a union between men and women, and to practice religion not only individually but also collectively. This means, for example, that religious communities with the right to marry cannot be obliged to marry persons of the same sex. The different demands are in violation of religious freedom. Society must also guarantee equal access to education and education based on this concept of marriage for parents who hold a traditional view, and refrain from warring sexual neutral education and education. How the implementation of this right in practice is ensured in early childhood education and education is unresolved. For example, are day - care homes and schools divided into two groups, one of which is traditional and the other is gender - neutral? The majority of the Parliament as a whole could hardly understand the consequences of a change of law when they voted. And it is true that this does not end here, but we will see the consequences, for example, in Canada and elsewhere in the world where this gender neutral has been introduced. From now on, we who are in favour of marriage between man and woman will be afraid of what is to come and how we will be shaken. Let us do our best to make things go differently: as our Bible and God in his creation account have defined humans. I am very sad that this has happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u144	Mr President! I will continue the debate with Mrs Wallin and ask you how you understand this situation. Is such a ecclesiastical marriage legally valid if, in the case of couples of the same sex, it is contrary to the religious community’s own decision, its own policy, against the council’s own decisions? This effort is now seeking to push for the type of correction that I believe is necessary when this legislation is now coming into force, which we did not want. In other words, this effort is aimed at ensuring that those entitled to church marriages can in future marry only in accordance with the terms and forms laid down by their own religious community. The autonomy of these religious communities would then be respected, just as the Committee on Legal Affairs has wanted and as many representatives here, including you, have assured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u145	Mr President! I understand that the Church Law says nothing about the fact that the marriage party can only be a man and a woman. It is not a matter defined in the Church Law; it then comes from other authorities, mainly religious literature, not to mention the Bible. But I am very careful, also as a former minister of church, that if the church itself feels that a part of a churchman requires consideration or change, then the church itself is always the proactive party. The fact that the government is obliged to find out something over the head of a church or council, as it were, may be a bit of a matter of concern, but I promise to get to grips with this formulation very carefully before it is time for decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u146	One last comment, Mrs Räsänen Päivi, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u147	Mr President! The church manual, which is also a document approved by the Council, refers to the bride and groom and very clearly refers specifically to marriage between man and woman. After all, there is now no need for any change in church law by the church, but this is the very social marriage law that we are talking about. There is no need for any changes in the Church Law and no need for the Council to make any changes unless it itself wants to take a positive stand on the marriage of the same sex, and that is not what we are, of course, driving, and of course we do not hope that the church will go into such a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u148	President! The question is precisely that the competence of this house, our legislators, is specifically about legislation. What the church itself internally defines or writes in its own manuals is outside our competence. It can also be a matter of conscience for someone who is doing in a priest’s office. We have nothing to say about that either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u149	Looks like there's still a need for a debat. Let's take another turn for the representatives of Östman and Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u150	Thank you, Speaker! That is what this is all about, Mrs Wallin, and that is why I do not understand what you think would be difficult to understand in this statement. We are talking specifically about this marriage law: if there are some gaps in it that cause conflict in connection with a denomination or a religious association, then we must look at and clarify the law so as to avoid these conflicts. But just as Mr Räsänen said, the churches autonomously decide what kind of wedding practice they take, but we must remember that there are other denominations in Finland than non-religes. church. Perhaps Mrs Wallin is always thinking of the rest of her life. Church affairs, but we must also consider other churches for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u151	Mr President! After all, when this marriage law has been discussed and the original citizens’ initiative aimed at this gender-neutral marriage, it has been suggested in this connection that no one would want or need to interfere in the internal affairs of the church or in the affairs of the churches. There have also been many speeches here that this is an internal matter for the Church. Unfortunately, however, as this debate has shown, this issue has caused problems. I myself see that we are not going to change the law of the church on our own here, but when you read this impetus, it is stated here that the government is going to determine whether the future regulation of the law on marriage requires further clarification of the legislation. This is not about church law, but it can be seen more broadly that what might be a law that specifies that the autonomy of these denominations can be safeguarded so that they can genuinely, independently decide on it. This, too, must be taken into account:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u152	Then we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u153	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here. I would like to point out once again that the Constitution guarantees freedom of religion and in this kingdom, in view of these issues of education, professionalism and professional advancement, as I myself have pointed out many times, that freedom of religion has already been restricted and violated. But these statements, if we are thinking of it, are aimed specifically at the common internal autonomy of the various denominations as regards marriage. It is precisely the practice of consecrating churches and other religious communities that will continue to be safeguarded. But it has already happened in the kingdom that some legal expert statements have been made that, at the entry into force of the gender-neutral marriage law, couples of the same sex could be married to a church marriage contrary to the concept of marriage of that religious community and that such a marriage would always be valid. In order to avoid such conflicts, which have been mentioned in many speeches, and to avoid legal processes and so on, it is very important that this situation should be clarified, and that is what these statements seek to achieve. As I said earlier, I do not understand who, who understands the importance of statements and the importance of the situation, could be against them. At this point, I would also like to say to the many citizens who are listening to this debate and also to the vote: home, religion and country of origin, and so on — is it still in force, or is it a home, religion and a traditional smokehouse, the validity of which people are still worried that citizens will be watching, who will vote?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u154	Mr President! Now this issue of marriage seems to have been resolved, and that is why I welcome the fact that, after this debate and last week's vote, we have now started to reflect on the way in which all the churches and denominations with the right to marry, the genuine power of decision and independence are guaranteed in this situation to decide how they will deal with this issue of marriage. Now that you look at these contributions, the two impetuss, one of which concerns this issue and the other on the issue of adoption, I would like to say for myself that I am very much in favour of both. I think it is important to note that, although there seems to be some different opinions within the Evangelical Lutheran Church — it is clear that it is made up of so many Finns — the majority of bishops and priests inside the church want to maintain the traditional concept of marriage within the church. I think it is important, in this situation, to give the Church a genuine, independent power of decision as to what they will do in the future, if we want to preserve the traditional concept of marriage inside the church so that there is no sort of unnecessary pressure from the outside through this, when one can say that through secular law we are now extending the marriage to couples of the same sex. That is why I would very much like those who supported that gender-neutral marriage law to be able to be tolerant in this respect, I dare say, that they would respect religious freedom to the extent that they would give this kind of justice and the opportunity for the church to genuinely act independently on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u155	Mr President! Regrettably, it is happening that, contrary to the promises made in Parliament and in its committees' reports, the Church is in a state of tearing down. We know that the Church's position in this regard is very clear, the Council's position, the most recent reports have been clear, the positions of bishops have been clear, that the church should only marry people of different sexes, and yet we are still in a situation where 1.3. we are likely to see situations in which priests of the Evangelical Lutheran Church marry people of the same sex and then ask whether these marriages are legally valid. I do not think that anyone here has given a clear answer to this question and, at worst, this leads to upsetting judicial processes. In order to respect the sovereignty of these denominations and religious communities, both the Evangelical Lutheran Church and other religious communities, they should be allowed to make their decisions peacefully according to their own order, and so should we respect the church’s right to decide their church law and other practices, since marriage is also part of a religious practice. If so, there is nothing to prevent the council from taking the decision to marry the same sex, even though it is not me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u156	Mr President! Finally, for my part in this debate, I support the proposals made by Mrs Antero Laukkanen, which have been distributed to the tables. They are good proposals and can be supported as such. Then there is the matter of our society, however, being built up in a Christian tradition, that the shaking of these structures is clearly creating more and more difficult situations in this society in the future. Then, when such division increases, no one will benefit from it in this country. It would be good to remember in this precious liberal world — I have recently become more and more aware of the feeling of listening to the speeches made by these liberals — that sometimes there are no more values, that everything will work as long as it is. I think that is a very worrying development. If a person thinks this way, I will certainly not condemn it, but value-liberalism as such is very dangerous, because values no longer weigh anything. One of the greatest values I can imagine is Christian values that take into account the help of neighbor man, neighbor love, and another, and generally the message that is needed in this wicked world. That is why I regret this debate that Finland has come into this situation. With my weak powers I cannot prevent this, but for my part I will do my best to make a sound in the future for these right values and also for helping the neighbor and the weaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u157	Mr President! For many Finns, the church is important, not necessarily as a spiritual home. We have seen from many studies that Finns no longer necessarily share much common values, but many appreciate the church as an institution and also the work that the church does. And that is why I believe that if there are serious conflicts within the church, even legal processes, through this — born, as described well above, such legal battles — none of us, I hope so, would consider it desirable in the future. If, however, and when the church within itself deals with the issue of marriage surely in the future and is pondered by the Council, it is important that they can do so in a controlled way so that now this passed and coming into force law does not, in a way, put extra pressure on it from the outside, but could be done in a normal internal church process and controlled so that our church can continue as a whole into the future. That is why I think it is important that we should be able to support this impetus in large numbers here in No. 1. This number 2 is then a separate issue on the issue of adoption, but I think it is also very well-founded and, as I said earlier, I also strongly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u158	Mr President! A number of very good speeches have already been made in this debate and, as has been said here today and also on Thursday, it is very difficult to bring anything new to this. However, I would like to thank Mr Lohta, among other things, for his good speeches before and before. I myself would like to see this, regardless of my own religious convictions, from the point of view of Western fundamental values, individual freedom and religious freedom. Of course, there are many ways to look at these too, but I think that these two statements are to be welcomed. In other words, this 1st statement takes a position on freedom of religion, on the fact that churches and religious communities will be able to make independent decisions on this concept of marriage, and therefore the secular legislator would not overly restrict their activities. This second relates mainly to the freedom of individuals, the status of families, the status of children: to ensure that individuals, parents and families have the opportunity to influence the possible adoption of their offspring. In other words, I think that both these statements are very welcome. I therefore support these proposals from the point of view of the history of fundamental rights in the West.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u159	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u160	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Law on the Security and Security of Certain Ships and the Ports serving them in such a way as to allow persons who fulfil the conditions for being recognised as a guardian of the law to continue to carry out security checks for the purposes of the law. The need for change is due to the overall reform of the private security sector that came into force at the turn of the year. In the context of the overall reform, the Act of the Ministry of Transport and Communications on the security and control of certain ships and their ports, which refers to the repealed Code of Public Order Supervisors, was not amended. The reference should be to the Act on Private Security Services that entered into force on 1 January 2017 instead of the Act on Public Order Supervisors. This is the law of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. In order to prepare the legislative amendment in a timely manner, it was agreed with the Ministry of Transport and Communications that the proposal would be prepared and presented from the Ministry of the Interior. This is a technical proposal from the government to correct a situation which has caused uncertainty in law enforcement. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u161	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the security and security control of certain ships and the ports serving them. In the current law, only a border guard, a police officer or a customs officer has the right to carry out a security check to prevent the use of dangerous goods for illegal, ship or port security operations or for persons in them. According to the proposal, an official other than that mentioned above could also carry out a security check once he has received certain training and has been approved by the police. I believe that this proposal will contribute to safety and is an excellent proposal, but it is not yet sufficient for the safety of ships. We need more action and new thinking to improve the safety of water transport. In the summer I have travelled on inland waterway vessels and they have never been inspected in any way. I have also often travelled on so-called Swedish and Estonian ships, and may I say that ports and security checks on voyages are still a long way from security checks at airports. You can take almost anything with you, especially in cars. Sea captains have also been concerned about the safety of passengers and crews for years when I have discussed this with them. However, nothing relevant has been done to improve safety. In the evening of December 27, 2016, there was a comment by sea captain Stefan Karelli, in which he explained: "The increase in security threats in the North also requires security checks on passenger ships of the same type as for airports." Every word of the comment is true. Mr President! Minister! We should understand now, at the latest, that access to ships by passengers and cars without security checks is a threat to travel. We don't live in a birdhouse. We live in Europe. I am well aware that security controls bring additional costs for shipping companies. As far as safety checks are concerned, car inspections are time-consuming for passenger ferries and ship schedules are tight. However, I ask whether the explosion of 50 kilos of explosives or an event like school killings in the interior of a ship is better. At the latest, the safety image of Finnish shipping will collapse and the number of passengers will collapse. This problem is not just a problem for us Finns, it is a problem for large ocean ships all over the world, full of passengers. I believe and hope that the authorities and shipping companies have thought about stepping up security measures. Now we should just start thinking about what we're doing. Until then, certain caution should be taken into account when travelling by water. Fear should not be given power, however, because life must continue, as has been the case in Nice, Berlin and many other terrorist targets since the incident.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u162	Mr. Speaker! This board proposal is of this kind of technical nature and fully justified, so that I will not go into it any further. Mr Kulmala, of course, spoke fullly in that regard, and this safety of ships has long been a matter of concern to the police, for example, and now that we have a minister here with respect, I have understood that he has already addressed this challenge and, if not already launched some sort of task force and study to achieve a better level of safety for ships. Of course we don't live in a birdhouse. We have to remember that. But it must also be remembered that if this type of airport security check were to take place, how much — I am not talking about money — harm would it cause passengers. There is quite a complex issue here, but this needs to be clarified and, if possible, I would like a brief reply from the Minister that what is going on when I pretend to be sensing that something is going on here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u163	Let us take Mr Räsänen's speech and then Minister Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u164	Mr President! Although this draft law is of a technical nature and essentially ensures that the unclear situation arising from legal technical reasons does not continue, it is still at the cutting point of the public authorities' activities and then the private security sector. Now that the Minister answers Mr Tolvanen's question, I would like to hear your assessment of the way in which this overall reform of the private security sector, which has come into force since the beginning of this year, has begun to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u165	Mr President! Thank you for these questions. This real thing I presented here was very technical and was due to the earlier law that came here at the time. This issue of ship safety is certainly one that has spoken here before — thanks to you — a few months ago. And just as Mr Tolvanen was very gratefully testifying and saying here, that is where I immediately asked for that clarification. I have not yet had a debate with the Police Government on what measures might be being taken, but I asked them to assess whether there is anything to be done. That is a number of things that must be taken into account, of course, and what effective means would be. I have also interviewed police officers and ship security officers on this issue, and they told me that there are many ways to increase its security. But when reference was made here, Mr Kulmala, to these security checks on board the ship as a whole, it has also been discussed, but there is nothing more to say about it, unfortunately. Mr Räsänen then asked about this overall assessment. We do not yet have it, this legislation has been so recently reformed that it will certainly monitor the effectiveness and impact of its law. It meant well, and it is hoped that it will move forward. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u166	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 1/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u167	Mr President! There is now a government proposal to the Parliament for a law. amending the Defence Forces Act and certain related laws. I will read briefly a few points: According to the law in force, the Defence Forces are responsible partly for the security arrangements for visits by representatives of international organisations and the highest military leadership of other states, as well as for the security arrangements for the transport of special assets of the Defence Forces. The powers lie in the areas under permanent control of the Defence Forces. Outside the areas of the Defence Forces, the competent authority is mainly the police and, in certain security tasks, the Border Guard. The key change in the current state of this proposal is the extension of the Defence Forces' security tasks and their powers to include areas outside the Defence Forces. The Finnish Defence Forces have had some 50 different human resources protection tasks each year and some 200 of them require special protection from the Finnish Defence Forces. Further training should therefore be provided to 50 persons, as proposed. In addition, training should be complemented by additional training at the workplace. This would aim to ensure that security guards have sufficient knowledge and operational capacity to perform their duties. No person employed by the Defence Forces may be used as a security officer. The Committee on Defence has stressed that security training should be planned and implemented in close cooperation with the police. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has delivered an opinion and, accordingly, the committee proposes to clarify Article 15(8) in such a way that the definition of specific protected sites, their inspection in the defence administration, the restriction of access to them and their secrecy are governed by a Government regulation. Small, necessary changes have also been made to the principles of the Defence Forces' security tasks and the security mission, in line with the position of the Constitutional Committee. With regard to powers in the field of personal protection, the committee proposes to add a clarification that force can only be exercised to the extent and until it is necessary to carry out the personal protection task. The security officer shall have the right to isolate, close or clear a commonly used place or area in the immediate vicinity of the transport of the special property of the Defence Forces, or to prohibit or restrict movement there, where this is necessary to protect the special property. Furthermore, the Committee on Defence considers it necessary to add a provision to this effect that a police officer or a police officer who is a police officer is entitled to limit the powers mentioned above. Mr President! Finally, the Committee on Defence considers it necessary to monitor closely the impact of the new regulation on cooperation between the authorities. The committee will therefore make a statement to the Parliament for approval that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior will report to Parliament by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u168	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Defence Forces Act to include provisions on the Defence Forces' security tasks. According to the law in force, the Defence Forces officials have the powers required for the security mission in the areas under permanent control of the Defence Forces, but outside the areas of the Defence Forces, the competent authority for the security tasks is mainly the police and, in certain circumstances, the Border Guard. The Defence Forces have not had the opportunity to carry out security tasks without a request for police assistance outside the Defence Forces' territories, i.e. the Defence Forces will at their worst run out of jurisdiction at the garrison gate. The Government’s proposal seeks an amendment to this effect. I believe that the proposal is justified and timely. As mentioned in the proposal, the concept of security tasks is not well established. In my opinion, the purpose of the personal protection mission is, at its simplest, to guarantee the safety of the person and the integrity of his property at all times and everywhere. If we look at this too complicatedly, there is easily more to it than the problem of delegation which is now being reduced in this proposal. It must be clear that the military person's personal protection mission does not end at the garrison's gate, but is also carried out outside, on the road and in public areas. The task is therefore a continuous exercise until the protected person has left the area, for example, to an aeroplane — even the aeroplane may continue to do so. The Defence Forces also have a lot of assets, documents that need special protection. The need to protect transport is based on public safety and, as a general rule, the aim is to transport it as discreetly as possible. The purpose of the Defence Forces is to provide special training for approximately 50 people for security tasks. It is quite clear that not just anyone can get into this training, but the training must be carried out in close cooperation with the police in this regard. For the purposes of this Government proposal, security tasks shall be defined as (1) a personal protective function, including a bodyguard function, and ensuring the safety of the protected person in the accommodation 24 hours a day, and (2): Protection of the transport of special military assets, which would also be included in the protection of courier duties. I do not think that this bill needs to be made more complicated on these points, because then the famous problems will arise. It is easy to give authority to this. In addition, the proposal would provide the Ministry of Defence with the power to issue a regulation on specific protected targets for the Defence Forces. Subjects and practices applicable to them would be regulated by a Regulation, which would clarify the division of competences between the authorities carrying out inspections under the general authority and the Defence Forces authorities. The current change in the Finnish security environment and the insufficient resources of the police authorities contribute to the proposal that the Defence Forces be given greater responsibility for protecting their own personnel and foreign and military transfers. Mr President! I hope that this proposal will reach its end, as it is in the interests of all of us. I would like to see the legislation and policies on the protection of the defence forces and the police also converge in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u169	Mr President! There are practical needs for this proposal, but, as we can see from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this proposal is not such a problem-free one, and that is why the statement accompanying the committee's report is necessary. It is important that the roles and responsibilities of the various authorities are clear. The police are a central and leading authority for public order and security and crime prevention, including in times of crisis. The main task of the Defence Forces, on the other hand, is military defence, and the Border Guard is responsible for border security as a leading authority. In previous opinions, as in this new opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out that the provision of the same powers to the other authority with regard to the powers at the disposal of the police may not be compatible with the requirement to restrict fundamental rights. This has been dealt with quite thoroughly in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it has been concluded that such legislation, in the order in which the ordinary law is laid down, can be regulated by these very limited arguments and in the limited situations that have been decided upon here, and that is why I accept it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u170	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 1/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-21-ps-10.u171	Mr President! This proposal or this report certainly does not contain any major drama, which is certainly reflected in the fact that this report by the Committee on State Guarantees has been unanimous. After all, this 2013 State guarantee is renewed at EUR 3.76 billion. This is a well-founded proposal in the sense that this will improve the lending potential of this International Monetary Fund and will also prevent these crises which may arise in the future. There are also improvements in this regard compared to the previous situation that, under the current rules, the International Monetary Fund would only be able to activate bilateral loans if voting lenders representing 85 % of the total amount of loans accepted the activation of the terms. This is an improvement compared to the previous one. Under the current agreements, there has been no need for the consent of the lenders, so this condition will also strengthen the position of the lender countries, and this proposal and the explanatory statement in the report are therefore very welcome.
