ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u2	Madam President! This bill is a question of pauperism, and it is a question of promoting it. In fact, this is related to taxation. The idea is that when this is done extensively and professionally, it is forestry and it could also be taxed in connection with forestry as capital income. The collection of patricians as a hobby in itself is tax-free and currently professionally performed in the field of income tax. So, what's a getaway? It is considered to be a global superfoot. In Finland there is Pro Pakuri Finland ry, which aims to promote this. It has been known among the people for decades. It was used especially during wars as a substitute and was nicknamed "tick tea". Its medical effects are diverse. At the moment, China has an 8 billion market in the wake-up machine. It is calculated that the global market is currently around 20 billion. There are a lot of enthusiasts in Finland. This also presupposes that much of these are artificially produced and that the market should be made active. So this will not be corrected by taxation alone, but there are other ideas. Among other things, this should be supported and promoted in an appropriate way. Taxation is one point here, and I hope that, when the relevant law is dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Tax Section, my own initiative will be strongly raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u4	Mr President! It is a pleasure once again to support the initiative on the ranks of the centre of a good government partner. A bill from Mr Ala-Nissila is welcome. It makes sense to change this taxation of special forestry products in this way, as Mr Ala-Nissilä suggests, and we would have a lot to use in the Finnish forest. We make use of the forest in many ways, but these special products would also have a very different scope for accessing and marketing, and this could certainly help — and certainly should — make this easier. We should also look for ways to ensure that forests are better managed in the future, that larger entities are found, which should be managed in such a way that wood can be used for a wide variety of uses, but also these special parts, of course the van, which have been exceptionally much public, but also many other things to be used there. Berries and mushrooms, of course, are also an important part of this and, unlike these, are covered by everyman's right, and it is a good thing that we also make use of this forest supply. And let us also underline that I do not in any way mean and do not support the extension of everyman's right to this side, but I would like to underline that, for example, it is not part of collecting a van, and unfortunately many people even steal it today from other people's forests. Let us hope that, on that side too, education will move forward and respect the property of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u5	Mr President! We both have many friends hunting in Finland and here in Parliament, and that must be the case, and it is also reflected in tax legislation, and it is very appropriate that we go through the benefits of forests and their rational use. I believe that this initiative will also have success when it is presented by the Chairman of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance. But in addition to forests, some others should have friends, and I think that children should also have friends. Yesterday, during Question Time here in Parliament, Mr Essayah pointed out the surprising fact that the government is giving up the tax on children. And when we talk about taxation as a whole, I am going to ask whether this warm heart should not beat not only on the forests but also on the children — especially when this means tax evasion for families with children, and if I read the government program again recently, it says that no one's taxation should be tightened. I do not know whether this abolition of the reduction in children is enough to bring about even a tightening of taxation, but at least it is a negative development. And when I look back, I think that there is a representative here, Mrs Rinne, who was in the government when this tax deduction came, and yet it has become positive feedback from families with children that it is important in the economy of families with children. So I ask the chairman of the tax section: apart from the taxation of forests, is Mr Ala-Nissila any closer to this taxation of families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u6	Madam President! The previous speech has now left a slightly open position on the tax burden on the patricians, whether the SDP is in favour of this or not, but it is a good thing, in any case, that tax policy is being discussed. I think Mr Ala-Nissilä's initiative is a good one, because all the activities that are taking place in the forest and the raw materials that come out of the wood must also be of the same type of tax treatment and cannot be treated differently. Nor can we talk about everyman's rights when it comes to pauperism, because this is clearly also a matter of forest management measures. There is a lot of talk about the so-called superfoot, a lot of talk about the health effects of different raw materials, about what comes out of the forest. This is not a new product, this is a very old, traditional product. I believe that there is more expertise in how these are used in this Chamber, but we should take advantage of these good products with good health effects. We should make the most of these exports. The bioeconomy is one of the most important things the Sipilä Government has, and this will also be part of it. Everything we can get out of forests, such as pharmaceuticals, industrial raw materials, wood processing and so on, we need to be able to make better use of it, because forest is a renewable resource, it is a sustainable resource and it will raise the Finnish economy whenever we are able to make sustainable use of our forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Ala-Nissila, for raising this issue of pauperism. As with many other products in Finland’s natural environment, in the forest, Pakirkä is Finland’s true area of the future. The taxing of the gypsum is still on the table, and Ala-Nissilä has made a good proposal for that. It must definitely be part of the taxation of forestry, because it is a forest product. By the way, if you just buy it, then you go to business. More people today have asked me how to use it. Among other things, Mr Kurvinen knows — he has visited me to drink it, and I have brought many of my fellow MEPs here — what it is like to be a patrician. The parchment is collected from the birch. After all, the chaplain is a man who comes into a damaged birch, so it is never a healthy tree where it grows. After it is removed — otherwise it is not everyman’s right, but must be the permission of the forest owner to remove it — it is dried up and small boulders are taken. The small boulders are then perhaps put in a fair spoon to boil the cascade, and even if a quart of water is boiled in it for 10 to 15 minutes, and a dark drink comes. You can drink that dark drink after that. For a week you can keep that same bagel in a pot, always add more water and boil more, and those health effects are there all the time, so I recommend a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u11	Madam President! Mr Ala-Nissilä, in his spirit of loyalty, has again made an excellent legislative initiative, and I warmly support this. However, this excellent initiative must bear in mind the fact that the collection of coils does not fall within the scope of everyman's law, as Mr Heinonen may have pointed out in his own speech. Berries and mushrooms may be collected from another forest without permission, but then when we go out and collect branches of wood, sticks or other items there, stemwood, we must not go there. It is often easily understood that this is a matter of everyman’s right. I don't think that's the case. Here is the danger of extending these areas of everyman's right. Then we go very quickly to private property protection, and that is not a desirable development. But, Madam President, as far as the priest is concerned, we are all aware of the positive health effects, the excellent effects, and I know that many Finns, as Mrs Maijala described in her speech, are using this health-active substance. It's worth a lot of time. For example, if someone wants to fight the flu, it has many positive effects on the human body. Mr Heinäluoma also opened the door to the use of the parchment roll in his own speech. Only how it relates specifically to the deduction of children from taxation was I left a little open, but I am trying to educate myself tonight to understand why.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u12	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen may have made my point somewhat inaccurately, and I would like to point out that in my own speech I specifically pointed out that collecting a van is not a matter of everyman's rights. I wanted to point it out because, unfortunately, we often learn that it is illegally collected from other people's forests, i.e. I used the word'stealing'. I would now like to draw this to the record after Mr Hoskosen's excellent speech, by the way, to be underlined and confirmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u13	Madam President! Representative Olavi Ala-Nissila, you have made an interesting bill and have brought out to all of us the parchment wheel. Not everyone necessarily knows what it is; there seems to be general knowledge in this Chamber as to what kind of trouble it can help. It is indeed a decayer sponge and appears on birch or other hardwood, and it is one of the black lumps that is indeed today's superfood. In China, for example, it has been used as a cancer medicine and in Finland it has been used as tea or powder. It contains plenty of antioxidants and strengthens immune defense and has been selected in 2013 as a herbal plant of the year. Finland has also studied its possible cultivation, the Finnish Agriculture and Food Research Centre (MTT) and the University of Eastern Finland have played a leading role in this. If this kind of farming is possible and successful in Finland, it is great and also offers opportunities for farmers, brings new ideas and ideas — that is what we need — and also income. This bill also brings out others, at least people I don't know, who are the ones I don't know. There is mention here of varnish, spruce cream — well, spruce cream I know — and poo-poo. This is a very interesting and nice initiative. You brought the forest here among us, and when we talked about the children, why don't we take our children or grandchildren to the woods this weekend to see a variety of evils and wafers, perhaps on a mushroom trip, maybe pick some berries, so let's make the forest familiar, take them to the boogey forest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u14	Madam President! At the turn of last week in the Rural Parliament, Tuomas Enbuske entertained the people by saying that food production in Finland should be stopped and the fields should be made to grow hemp, cannabis releases, and there were a few other themes in that series. In this context, I would like to say this as a reference to the Minutes, because I do not think that this initiativeer, Mr Ala-Nissila, is a wooden head at all, even though he is doing so in a tree-like way. It is great to see that we are looking at Finland’s natural resources with a little larger focus than just the vision of forestry or some traditional thing. I see this initiative as much broader than it is now in the process of amending Article 43 of this Income Tax Act. Of course, it is right that we should encourage the collection, processing, sale, even through taxation of all kinds of natural resources, but at the same time it must also be seen that there are enormous opportunities in Finland that we do not always see. It is this unique opportunity for Finland that has been referred to here in the speeches. You may also ask: Why, for example, are migratory birds moving north? Why are they nesting right here in the north? Because it's light nights, there's a lot to eat here, and there's clean food here. Why do fish always swim upriver to spawn? Same reason. It's the cleanest water, it's the best food, the best food. Finland is naturally clean, we have little pollution and it is good to stick to it in the future. At the same time, it specifically provides opportunities for the collection, processing and marketing of products under this bill from the outside. I believe that Olavi Ala-Nissilä has received quite a lot of research with this initiative. I myself had to study and study what all these products actually mean. I hope that the press will now catch up with a series of walnuts and will also present a variety of products of different kinds, which were, by the way, for our ancestors, for our ancestors, familiar, normal drugs and welfare issues, which came naturally and not just purchased from that chemical store. In this sense, to put it in situ, a return to the old may be a return to the future. This is where we should catch the catch, all in all. Otherwise, I also welcome this legislative initiative at the beginning of the autumn parliamentary term in this new, proudly renovated parliament hall and house, and I feel that we should rather discuss how to get our policies out of this divisional economy into a productive economy, how to make more of that cake and not just think about how to distribute it. In my opinion, this initiative by Mr Ala-Nissilä is precisely like creating the conditions for this so-called cake to be baked and then distributed. During these years in Parliament, what I have been allowed to do in this work, I have found that the cake will never be shared, but there are not always as many bakers as there may be. Mr President! All the best for this bill. Legal initiatives are generally not successful, but this would be a good place to take the matter forward, not for the signatory and author of the bill, but for the sake of the matter itself. And in this respect, it is the government parties and opposition parties that should consider in committee whether there would be one piece of this which would be good and good for Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u16	Madam President! I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Ross, that this bill must now be seen as part of a larger package, and that this is a broader issue than, for example, an important one in itself, a packer, a Christmas tree picker or a hobbler, which is certainly important products, as we have heard here. But it is true that when taxation is dealt with, it must be treated as a whole. When changes are made to the Income Tax Act — Rossi was talking about the divisional economy, and sharing on the business side can, for example, be provided as subsidies, direct subsidies, or also reduced rates, different tax subsidies, are a kind of manifestation of this divisional economy described by Ross — a tax deduction or a tax reduction, someone will pay for it, and in this case it will be taken from others. That is why it is important that when we talk about taxation, we look at the whole thing. And that is why, right now, in this Chamber and in connection with this initiative on the Income Tax Act, it is also important to talk about this child allowance. When the government has advertised that no one is subject to tax tightening, is that really the case and how does the chairman of the tax division see this, does the government really intend to take children, families with children, into their teeth in this situation, while index cuts of child supplements continue? So the index cuts on child supplements will continue, and at the same time this child reduction will be taken away, so that one can say that the question arises as to what is being considered at the breakfast table at the porridges and Piltti cans about these government plans. Chairman of the Tax Division, please ease the pain of Finnish families with children. Please tell me that you are prepared to re-evaluate this blackmail on the taxation of families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u18	Let's get back to discussing this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u19	Mr President! I was not here during the last parliamentary term, but, as I understand it, children's allowances were cut and then, in a tax-technical way, they compensated for it in a slightly unfortunate way, and it was a fixed-term operation. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u20	Madam President! This becoming a hit product on the world market is a very good thing, and fiscally, what Mr Ala-Nissila was doing very well in his own legislative initiative would bring about the return on forestry. It is worth noting that the average size of a Finnish forest farm is about 30 hectares, and when only one can collect these vans from one's own country, that activity is hardly going to be very profitable. But it must also be borne in mind that in the case of income tax in forestry, tax rates may not be very high when the income flow is low, so that it is good if a little more is added to the income stream, and in many cases the tax rate will also be taken care of at the same time. We are not talking about tax relief here, but quite rationally about the fact that the forest product is covered by forest taxation, quite logically, just like this. As far as the future use of this gypsum, the chaplain, as a Finnish hit product in the world, is concerned, it is indeed worth our while — as Mr Rossi described in his speech the purity of Finnish nature, we have such wealth in our own forests, in our own fields — over the wall of its envy to look at the various sides of this hall, so that we do not now, on various pretexts, put a stop to it if new export areas open up to us. For example, we have enormous opportunities in the production of different kinds of clean food. We know that plant diseases are spreading rapidly around the world, that there are huge strains of MRSA in food, that there is salmonella in it – for example, salmonella in Finnish agriculture is a very rare problem, and if so, it will be dealt with immediately. So, in this case, this vigilante — an excellent bill, which Mr Ala-Nissilä has made a strong move forward — is an example of the need to have a little view over the wall of envy to make the Finnish economy rise. The van is a very, very small part of it, but an extremely good example and an important one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u21	Let me remind you at this point that the time for the meeting of the large committee is gradually approaching.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u22	Mr President! Indeed, the debate that has taken place in itself has shown that the initiative definitely deserves to be examined by the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance and that we need to go through the current practice and what the proposed new practice in the field of capital income taxation means. I believe we all agree that the multifunctional nature of the forest is what we must strive for. It will be a recreational benefit, it will be a very important green gold for us in the form of the further processing of wood, and also berries and, in this case, this phenomenon of the van must certainly be exploited if it can be used. It is all good, but there is reason to talk about these issues, which concern not only the multiple use of forests or forest owners, but all the people and families with children who are taxed. This has to be highlighted in the same context as we are talking about taxation: is our line consistent and does we take into account when the whole tax package is made, including the ability to pay taxes to different groups of people in a sufficient way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u28	And there's still time, Congressman Frost.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to focus on this excellent initiative taken by Mr Ala-Nissilä, among other things, on the taxation of the cultivation of the pauper, to turn taxation from agricultural income into capital income. That is the fundamental question in this bill. This is a very good initiative. There are a lot of products in the forest that can be collected and picked, which are certainly not part of everyman's court, but at least I am familiar with the fact that the brother-in-law collected this from his own hunting and cooked tea, and I can say that it did taste healthy. Should I have been drinking last week to avoid this autumn flu, I cannot say, but it is a good health drink, and I hope that this bill will receive a positive reception.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u30	Mr. Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-08-ps-84.u31	Mr President! It is gratifying that such a tax debate can be made, but I would like to say a word about this wild food, that is, all the food that is to be collected from the forest or from nature. After all, the enthusiasm for it is enormous. If you think of international tourism and its development in Finland, then that is where these wild food products are a wonderful side product. Young people are very excited about this. It has now been noted that, for example, we have not all been able to participate in herb courses and collecting classes this year. I myself think that every free hand should be put into those short periods of time when these products are collected from the forest. It is a challenge that, in a very short time, this collection always takes place, except, as far as I can see, this gurney can be collected all year round. I hope that this wild food will be invested in one of the advantages of international tourism for us here in Finland.
