ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on the Future of Europe, on the basis of the report TuVM 1/2017 vp, on the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on the Future, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The debate begins, Mr Blomqvist, Chairman of the Committee on the Future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u2	Mr President, värderade Herr Talman! The origins of sustainable development are in the protection of nature and the environment. Following the Brundtland report, sustainable development was promoted in the UN-led Rio process. The Global Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2030, was adopted at the UN Summit in September 2015, and its implementation started at the beginning of 2016. The Global Agenda 2030 is a unique achievement for the international community and a process of historical significance. For the first time, the countries of the world have common objectives for sustainable development. The EU and Finland, too, are pioneers in the commitment to the Action Plan and thus are important global examples. Finland has already received positive international attention from its 2030 Agenda measures. The Government's first report on the global agenda for sustainable development is one of the most important issues to be addressed by the Committee on the Future during this parliamentary term. The committee has consulted 71 experts and eight committees gave their opinion and heard opinions from their own experts. In total, hundreds of experts and representatives of various stakeholders from different sectors of society and sustainable development have participated in the process. The debate has been good and multi-dimensional and, as a result, the report by the Committee on the Future is quite long but thorough. The committee's main priorities were summed up in ten proposals. The Committee on the Future would like to stress that the first Government report on Agenda 2030 and the related parliamentary report is the most important process. The Government presented the Agenda Action Programme to Parliament as a report, which allows for a wide-ranging discussion in Parliament and, at the same time, the annual follow-up of the measures in the Board's annual reports. A broadly inclusive approach to the operational programme and also to the implementation of the measures is also important. Mr President! The Agenda report contains two priorities for national action: 1) Carbon neutral and resource wise Finland and 2) Equal, equal and knowledgeable Finland. The Committee on the Future considers these priorities to be good. The report also sets out the policy principles guiding the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. They are 1) long-term and dynamic, 2) consistency and global partnership, and 3) ownership and inclusion. The most important of these can be long-term and policy coherence. The Future Committee supports the consideration of the 2030 Agenda Action Plan by parliamentary term as reports in Parliament and also the annual reporting of progress monitoring as part of the Government's Annual Report. The Action Plan in the form of a report supports the long-term sustainability of the implementation and follow-up of the measures. It is also essential for effectiveness that there is no conflict between the different aspects of policy. The Committees raised a number of important and good points. Among other things, they called for joint measures and common concepts. It is good that each country has its own kind of measures to promote common objectives, but there may also be a need for joint measures, for example to prevent tax evasion. The Committee on the Future feels that it is good that the measures are voluntary, but there may also be a need for mandatory legislation in some areas. Clear common concepts are also needed for monitoring and evaluating the progress of the measures. The report of the Committee on the Future proposes that the themes requiring international cooperation or coercive action could be the keys to Finland's foreign policy and also to development and trade policy, Agenda 2030, where Finland is profiled in the world. To the extent that the experts consulted by the Committee on the Future gave negative feedback on the report, the main point of criticism was the lack of concreteness. The Committee on the Future states in the report that the role of the indicator system is very important, and therefore proposes that the operational programme be made concrete by means of reliable indicators. However, the indicators must be of high quality and innovative, as they are a major driver of the operation. The actors are doing what is measured, and so we are guided by the wrong indicators to do the wrong things. The opinions also called for more cooperation between the private and public sectors and Nordic cooperation. The 2030 Agenda Action Plans are national. Nevertheless, the importance of international cooperation must also be borne in mind. The report does not give much thought to Finland's role as a part of the Nordic countries. Nordic cooperation is important to Finland and its importance will be emphasised if the EU develops at different paces in the future. The Committee on the Future therefore stresses the importance of increasing Nordic cooperation in sustainable development. Experts also criticise to some extent the fact that the programme of measures was directed by the government programme. The report included measures on the Government Programme and strategies already adopted in other contexts. According to experts, the coherence and policy coherence of the report and the action plan suffer from this. However, the main criticism of the 2030 Agenda report was that stakeholders involved in the preparation of the report and the action plan felt that the results of their work were not sufficiently reflected in the final report. In this context, the Committee on the Future states in its report that the Government must make use of the involvement of citizens and stakeholders in defining and implementing the measures of the 2030 Agenda and also in assessing its effectiveness. Particular attention must be paid to the fact that stakeholder involvement is also reflected in the outcome. In addition, the report must guide the Government Programme and not the other way around. In its report, the Committee also calls for: (1) the Government to allocate the resources of the Strategic Research Council and the Government's research and research activities in the following years, in particular to promote policy coherence with Agenda 2030 and strengthen the multidisciplinary knowledge base on sustainable development; and (2) the Government must add to all public procurement a requirement and assessment of the promotion of the 2030 targets, for example as part of the Government Commitment 2050 process; and (3) the Government must strengthen the relevant human resources of the Government Office in coordination and the role of ministries in implementing the National Action Plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u3	Mr President! We have a historic moment. We have a chance to change the direction of the world. Targets have been set, but the work is only just beginning. At this point, we need to believe more and more that the impossible can still be made possible. We have to trust that good will create more good. We must believe in the continuum and the intergenerational chain that we want to leave behind a world that is better than when we entered it, as people have also done before us, spoke in this Chamber also for the life that at times was not visible, sought and paved the way for solutions that have laid the foundations for equality and equality. Of course, history has also left behind wounds and war, oppression and destruction, but we have the opportunity to learn from these mistakes and choose differently, to choose alliance instead of enmity, to pick up from history the points where belief in the impossible has eventually created a better world. While sitting in prison, Nelson Mandela believed that he could change his country in a fundamental way. Rosa Parks sat on a bus to a white man's place, and in his act made himself visible, visible to injustice and possible to change. Martin Luther King had a dream for a better world. It's our job to build that world. Minna Canth wanted to put all the girls in school. Our generation's job is to make sure all the girls in the world get into school. Malala Yousafzai is a living proof of the impact one ordinary schoolboy can have on the lives of millions of people, that the story of one person can eventually change the world. Mr President! I spend a lot of time in schools talking and always trying to remind children and young people of the fact that each of them already has a chance to change the world with their own story. It is important for the 2030 Agenda to put young people in a strong position. There is a greater generation of young people in the world than ever before, and every young person’s involvement is a prerequisite for achieving goals. In Helsinki, for example, great results have been achieved through positive discrimination, i.e. providing additional resources to the schools most in need of them. These activities are also supported by research, and what is striking is that the most important part of the change was not a marked rise in school numbers, but rather an expansion of its own horizons. When a young person is lit inside a lamp and understands his own potential, he also looks around and begins to wonder what his contribution to the common good might be. Mr President! Agenda 2030 is also binding on us at national level and forces us to look in the mirror on many points. We need to look at the whole life cycle from early childhood education to services for older people. At this point I could list the massive cuts in education, but I will leave them unlisted this time. Their content and scale are obvious. At this point, however, their main message is the contradiction between our words and our values in relation to what we do. We cannot paint a future in which we talk about equal opportunities for every child and young person if we do not create a framework and sufficient resources for it. These challenges of conflict affect each of us. Politics is trade, and there will also be new governments. Hopefully, then, we'll know what we can't bargain on. The same contradiction is evident with regard to development cooperation. It is sad how far we are from the 0.7 target. We cannot talk about prioritising girls and women or about the importance of sexual and reproductive health if resources are not sufficient. We will not be able to rely on the expertise of the organisation field we recognise if we do not fund it adequately. Now we are looking forward, and it is important to build goals over a long period of time. Resources and cross-cutting between administrative sectors are needed. Indicators are needed to measure the impact of horizontally selected directions. This process has received praise for its participatory way of working, but criticism of the fact that the process is not sufficiently reflected in the actions chosen, and it is also important to take this into account in the future. Mr President! Economic growth is a tool. However, the ultimate goal of development and growth is prosperity, which can also grow without economic growth. As soon as and when our economic policy begins to produce inequalities, we must dare to stop and ask ourselves what the price of growth is and whether we can afford it. No, it's not. We cannot put human life under a glass dome until we have enough jobs together, because human life is happening here and now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u5	We will take the floor again, then Minister Tiilikainen will speak, and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u6	Mr President! The 2030 Agenda of the Global Agenda for Sustainable Development aims to ensure people’s well-being, human rights, social stability and economic prosperity in an environmentally sustainable way. The aim is also to eliminate extreme poverty in the world. For the first time, the countries of the world have common objectives for sustainable development, which I hope Finland will lead the way. The Government's report on Agenda 2030 now under discussion outlines the national implementation of the global programme in Finland. The priorities are carbon-neutral and resource-wise Finland and equal, equal and knowledgeable Finland. The most important policy principles are the long-term sustainability over the parliamentary term and policy coherence in terms of effectiveness. There must be no conflict between the various aspects of policy. The key to the success of the implementation of the operational programme is good coordination, which requires sufficient human resources to be provided in the Prime Minister's Office. Representatives of external relations, external economic relations and development policy are needed. The role of the various ministries in implementing the operational programme should be strengthened. It is also important to involve citizens widely and to make use of stakeholder involvement in the definition, implementation and impact assessment of measures. Stakeholder involvement must also be reflected in the outcome. When drawing up government programmes, the 2030 Agenda report must guide government programmes, not the other way round. The priorities for the implementation of the operational programme must be integrated into government programmes and the budget. In addition to traditional budgeting, new experiments and practices are needed, including phenomenon-based budgeting in large and complex entities. Agenda 2030 priorities should be linked to all phases of the Government term. All public procurement must also have a requirement and an assessment of the promotion of the objectives of the Sustainable Development Agenda. Policy coherence in sustainable development must be determined, long-term promoted and the multidisciplinary knowledge base strengthened. Prediction, such as scenario methods, should also be used in research that serves decision-making and change management. In order to assess the implementation and effectiveness of the 2030 Agenda, we need to develop reliable monitoring indicators that are concrete in terms of objectives and measures. The GDP meter is no longer sufficient today. It's not working properly. GDP can grow even though well-being is deteriorating. On the other hand, through the sharing economy, for example, services can improve and the benefit to the customer can increase significantly without any effect being reflected in GDP. In order to promote sustainable well-being, parallel indicators of the welfare economy must be developed for GDP, such as, as we have already heard, the real development indicator, the human development index and the index of sustainable economic well-being. New tools will also need to be developed to develop foresight to assess the impact of policy decisions. All decision-making must assess the impact on sustainable well-being. In foreign policy, in international contexts, the objectives of Agenda 2030 must be taken into account and promoted. This applies to the EU, the UN, the Nordic Council, Arctic advice, international trade agreements and so on. Nordic cooperation is particularly important for Finland. The geopolitical situation and its variations affect the outlook for sustainable development. Alternative scenarios and policies to promote sustainable development in both Finland and the rest of the world must therefore also be developed. At the same time, the possible consequences of unsustainable developments for Finland must also be assessed and prepared for them. Mr President! Sustainable prosperity is the top priority of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It needs to be implemented with determination, long-term and policy coherence on a broad front.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u7	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u8	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on the Future for the thorough work and, of course, the chairman of the Committee on the Future for the in-depth proposal that we have just made, as well as others who have been included in the programme of work. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is so important that, for the first time, all countries in the world have common objectives for achieving sustainable development. They therefore apply to developed countries as well as to developing countries. Finland participates in implementing the Agenda in its own activities and in cooperation with other countries. The Government gave Parliament a report on Agenda 2030 last February. My guess is that Finland will be the first country in the world to bring an action programme to its own Parliament. In the same way, our Committee on the Future is likely to be the first committee — and Parliament’s first Parliament — to work on the implementation of Agenda 2030 at this level. So we can be satisfied. In that report we presented a comprehensive range of ways to build a carbon neutral and resource-wise Finland and, on the other hand, to strengthen equality, equality and knowledge — essential issues of sustainable development. The implementation is guided by the policy principles of long-term sustainability and power of change, coherence and global partnership, as well as the ownership and inclusion needed to make fine plans real. The Government has taken up the implementation of the report's guidelines quickly, and a lot has already happened in more than six months. Let me take a few examples: One important decision was precisely the appointment of the Committee on the Future of Europe as a counterpart on Agenda 2030 issues, and I would like to thank Parliament and the Committee on the Future for this once again. In the mid-term review of the government, we decided on new measures to promote employment and the circular economy — both steps in implementation. A sustainable urban development programme is under preparation. The medium-term climate plan will be submitted to Parliament in the next few days. The achievement of carbon neutrality by 2045 will be accelerated by many means. Parliament's report requires credible monitoring of the report. The creation of an effective monitoring and evaluation system is an essential part of this, as the chairman of the committee has just said. This has been taken up and action taken. In the spring, a wide-ranging working group defined ten baskets of indicators for sustainable development and four indicators for each basket, which will measure whether we are on the road to sustainable development. Now these goals and their results can be followed on the Government's website www.kesavahdehde.fi, i.e. these monitoring instruments, indicators, will be opened for everyone's consideration. My guess is that hardly once has a complete instrument package been created. The work on sustainable development is long-term and it will certainly be worth returning to these indicators in the future. Another key measure, along with the development of indicators, is the dissemination of Agenda 2030 to the whole state administration. The Ministry of Finance has decided to attach a section on sustainable development to the draft budget by administrative sector section. In other words, each ministry will have to weigh in its annual budget the relationship of the draft budget with the 2030 Agenda objectives. In August, ministries reported for the first time on how the Sustainable Development Report and its implementation will be visible in the administrative sectors next year. This is an important step towards mainstreaming the SDGs into the work and budgeting of the entire government. In the future, of course, guidelines and monitoring of sustainable development budgeting should be further developed. The Government’s resources for the coordination of sustainable development have also been increased, with the strengthening of the 2030 Agenda Secretariat, a study on the coherence of Finland’s external action launched under the leadership of the Foreign Affairs Administration. A new impact will also be sought on the work of the Scientific Expert Panel on Sustainable Development during the autumn. Agenda 2030 is Finland's joint action programme. Of course, the government has the main responsibility for implementing it, but we invite all actors in society to take part. In particular, we have invested in the participation of children and young people. The work of the Youth Agenda 2030 Group has been well under way. We have 20 skilled and enthusiastic young people who are sparring for the government and the Commission for Sustainable Development and who are encouraging young people in their own region to participate in the concrete work on sustainable development. Towards the end of the Government term, we have prepared a comprehensive external evaluation of the progress of our National Agenda 2030 implementation and the state of sustainable development in Finland in accordance with the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u9	Now it is possible to reserve replies by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u10	Mr President! The economy and well-being go hand in hand. Investments in human capital are also investments in sustainable economic growth. We have a lot of research evidence that investments in humanity pay for themselves many times more, and that is why the concept of a welfare economy is part of sustainable development, an essential part of sustainable development. The importance of the welfare economy is increasingly and widely understood and, at the same time, the importance of welfare investments has also been understood. For example, investments in children are very important investments in the future. That is why the SDP's objective towards free early childhood education is so excellent. According to studies, one euro invested in early childhood education comes back many times as much to society. This is what we are talking about in concrete terms when we talk about welfare investments, and this aspect has been too light on the agenda for sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u11	Mr President! This is indeed an agenda that should be taken seriously every day. It is easy to think that this is the long-term issue, but everyday actions and also day-to-day political decisions mean getting closer to the objectives of Agenda 2030. One important role, such as the Minister Even Tiilikainen said, it is true that what decisions are taken in the state administration, even if we move forward on the environmental side. In addition to looking at what can be done on that side on a ministerial basis, it is much more important to look at what can be done together with the whole group in that regard. [Interjection from left: At least no cuts!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u12	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen, for your good work. For example, this involvement of young people in us and in the world is extremely important. Today’s generation of young people is the largest in the history of the world. There are 1.8 billion young people in the world between the ages of 10 and 24. One third of the world's young people are unemployed, and over the next decade one billion more young people will enter the labour market. It is particularly difficult for girls and young women to get to school. We therefore need more quality education, new skills, new tools for it and, of course, more decent, decent jobs. Over 600 million young people live in conflict countries. The participation of young people in the promotion of peace and security is essential. If we really want to improve the conditions for peace, the conditions for democracy, sustainable development,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u13	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on the Future for a very good job. I believe that the report by the Committee on the Future contains important and fresh comments, including critical ones. Good things are happening, for example, I think it is excellent that Minister Orpo promised that the presentation of next year's budget will also be accompanied by a first assessment of the achievement of the SDGs. I hope this goes on. But above all, we should pay attention to those things where we need to improve and where we have not moved forward. The Future Committee points out that the Government's report on Finland's progress towards these 17 UN targets shows that we have not moved forward in any case during the period considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u14	Let us stick to this one-minute response time so that everyone can have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u15	Honorable Speaker! It's exactly like Mr. Hassi stopped there. The main point that has been made here is that the Sustainable Development Report should guide the Government Programme and not the other way around. In fact, the fact that GDP itself is no longer measuring well-being as well as possible has also been noted here. Digitalisation also distorts the measurement of productivity and, at the same time, the measurement of GDP. This is, therefore, very strongly guided by the fact that central government should develop new ways of measuring the growth and well-being of the national economy, for example by means of an index of human development or an index of sustainable economic well-being. Then I would like to point out that we are nothing alone. International co-operation, Nordic co-operation is the key word for these issues
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u16	Mr President! 2030 is a paper on which everyone can agree. It raises the level of abstraction so high that the question arises as to whether the whole paper has any other function than to offer us, the B-chain of Parliament, the opportunity for a peaceful general debate. At the moment we have climate change, we have structural change, we have increased inequality and the collapse of world politics. It is clear that, in this situation, 2030 is not enough and offers little or nothing, but it also raises the question of whether we have any time for such papers at all. Would it not be time for this general debate on the world to get to the specificity of what needs to be done in order for those goals to actually be achieved? If the economy were treated at the same level as all these good things, it would be regarded as irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u17	Mr President! The main theme of Agenda 2030 is that no one should be left behind from this development, but we know that we too still have work to do in the management of unemployment, there are social exclusions from different populations and there are health inequalities to be reduced, but only together can we achieve this. But I also want to speak on this global level, so I think there are four important points in this development policy report. As has been said here, one is the strengthening of the rights and status of girls and women, the development of economies in developing countries, the promotion of jobs, livelihoods and well-being, the democratic nature of society. There is still a long way to go before all the nations and governments of the world are democratic. And fourthly, it is important that we have food, water and energy all over the world and that natural resources be used in moderation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u18	Värderade Herr Talman! Minister Tiilikainen lyfte upp det att man stätter mera resurser på det rai, och det är bra. Det var det som också framtidsutskottet effterlyste, lustaså att de unga skulle kunna engageras och involveras ännu battre i den raus processen i fortsättningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u19	Mr President! In line with the international trend, Finland wants to attract companies to become more involved in development cooperation. Support for the private sector has been significantly increased through financial investments in development cooperation, and in 2018 it will already be 15% of all development funds. Economic growth and the involvement of enterprises in development policy do not automatically improve performance or contribute to sustainable development. My question is: is the government going to harmonise the indicators used by the private sector and companies so that it can be seen whether companies are operating in the same sustainable way as the private sector? Two years ago, when the government cut almost half of the private sector's development cooperation money, a big question was left, how can the performance that has been made there be implemented?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u20	Mr President! Steady and safe development in the world is increasingly linked to what is happening in developing countries. In this global agenda for sustainable development, the focus has been on the issues that could strengthen this. One of them is strengthening the role of girls and women, strengthening access to education and curbing environmental change. In Finland, however, development cooperation appropriations have now been cut very strongly. It has already reached a level of less than 0.4%. EUR 400 million has been cut back on development funds. It has been calculated that the relative share of funding for work supporting gender equality in Finland's total development cooperation has fallen from 44% to 31%. I think that what the government is doing is in complete contradiction with what has been set out in this global agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u21	Mr President! It is good that these issues are being discussed, but I would like to acknowledge immediately that I am quite a pessimist. There are currently about 7 billion of us on earth, and soon there will be 10 billion of us. This puts terrible burdens on the original nature and the environment, and it seems that, while the market economy system is effective, it is not manageable enough, but it is rioting with the power that is so global that we are not able to control it, but the excesses are taking place. The evidence that we are failing to do this is, among other things, the Paris climate agreement, which the United States is breaking away from. At this rate, this earth is doomed, unfortunately, to quite annihilation, and I am a pessimist. Still, work must be done for better things. But my overall view is pessimistic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u22	Mr President! I'll catch from these two pessimists, Kontula and Salolan, all over the hall. I thought the same way when the Millennium Goals came, ‘ Are these just paper? ’ And then, over the last 15 years, we saw how, for example, girls’ education in Tanzania, Ethiopia, was brought to quite new figures. The countries themselves committed themselves and the international donor community committed themselves. And this same commitment is needed now for the next 15 years. Perhaps I would have missed a little initiative from the government: it is important that we look at what we are doing here, what we are doing — this, that we are budgeting these things, that we look at the budgetary implications, is very good — but it is also an initiative of some kind for international participation. Among other things, Sweden held a major meeting on the world’s seas in New York, which was to catch up on one goal and set out to take it forward. There is peace here, fair societies, the status of women — such as I think Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u23	Mr President! This report is important on a global scale, even in terms of this being done under the Government. In other countries this is either under the Ministry of Employment and the Economy or under the Ministry of the Environment, as in Finland before. We're one of the first. This is truly a unique achievement in the international community — and from the Community, this common will. It is important that, alongside GDP, indicators of the welfare economy are raised and that we think of this as a whole, horizontally, that is, this must really cross all borders, both the boundaries of the ministries and other sectoral boundaries, but also regional, national and global boundaries, when we think about and strive for these objectives. And indeed, climate change is an extremely serious problem, but I am not at all as pessimistic as some in this Chamber, because we must believe in a common and good future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u24	To this stage, I would like to give the following answers: Meri, Sarkkinen, Lindtman and Virolainen. Then we will take the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u25	Mr President! I am also pessimistic about matters, and I understand this concern, which, for example, has been expressed by Mr Salolainen in his long experience. But in this context I would like to discuss the fact that the government has taken into account in these energy solutions, such as this increase in the power plant tax that is planned for next year, the idea that if we start manufacturing in Finland towards China or India, it is not a good thing for employment or global environmental protection. We must also think that we are not driving companies out where we have good conditions. And I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: that spring we talked about these same topics and Nordic cooperation in the conservation of biodiversity, among other things. Is there anything we can do? The list of endangered species and natural animals is only growing. I think 2016 was the best year. How does the government intend to work together with the Nordic countries to preserve biodiversity?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u26	Mr President! The report by the Committee on the Future is commendable. Two years ago, the government cut massive 40% of development funding, and it is great that the report advocates raising the level of development funding to the GDP share of 0.7. The Agenda places increasing expectations on the quality and quantity of development cooperation. It is therefore important that all development funding is in harmony with the principles of Finland's development policy and with the Agenda. This also applies to financial investments and the use of Finnfund's increased capital. The Finnwatch report highlighted problems with Finnfund's operations last week. Finnfund can be a good development tool and has a role to play, but all its activities must serve sustainable development and development policy priorities. Mr President! The essential word is policy coherence. All policies must support sustainable development. Peace is a condition for sustainable development, but Finland still exports weapons to countries that threaten to end up in conflict zones. Isn't there a contradiction?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u27	Mr President! Indeed, the fact that the world's population has tripled in just over 70 years is challenging the present generation. And in this respect, especially from the point of view of sustainable development, the challenge is very hard. Maybe not to fall into darkness, but it is good to note that the idea of sustainable development is like this tricycle: ecological is on the bottom of everything, because without it there is nothing, but it is equally involved in economic and social, and if one wheel takes away, then it tricycle does not pass. I must say that I agree with Mr. Jaskar. Especially now that the challenge is so tough, we cannot only afford to look to the future, but must look to the present. And in this regard, Mr Haatainen set a good example. This is where we are going in the wrong direction on the side of development funds, and the government still does not assess its own decisions in relation to social sustainability in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u28	Mr President! We know that every year more than 2 million 15-year-old girls decide their childhood to motherhood. In my opinion, girls should be girls and go to school, and they should be allowed to grow up to be independent, full members of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u31	Then we will take the ministers' speeches and they will begin with Mr Mykkänen, Mr Mykkänen, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u32	Mr President! It is an important debate, and indeed, apart from the fact that a couple of million girls are giving birth in the wrong way under difficult circumstances, in fact 15 million girls a year end up getting married as a minor, usually in a situation where it does not serve their lives. In fact, it is the number of girls in Espoo and Vantaa every day, which describes this situation. Last week we had a seminar of the Parliament's Population and Development Group, which was also attended by the Somali Minister for Health, who I am hosting here anyway — and quite fiercely discussed: more than half of births take place without the help of a decent trained person, one fifth of children die before their first year of life, staying at the girls' school — although Mr Haavisto pointed out that, fortunately, there has been an increase in the number of births — is still on a regrettable basis. That is why our new country programme in Somalia uses 60% of resources to improve the position of women and girls. That is why, together with four other countries, we were launching the She Decides initiative, which raised EUR 20 million to compensate for the cuts in the United States. That is why, in June at the London Conference on Family Planning, we announced an additional EUR 21 million in funding. That is why, in the budget debate, we also agreed on an increase of EUR 10 million in development cooperation, which is also aimed at girls' education and sexual and reproductive health. And that is why, as the representative of Estonia stressed, the last day before yesterday at the Tallinn Ministerial Conference on Development, on our initiative, we have called on the Commission to welcome the European Commission with a large package of hundreds of millions of euros for sexual and reproductive health and justice, just as we did the last time, in fact, 15 years ago, when the government of the then President of the United States withdrew its support from the organisations involved in family planning. In this regard, I am also trying to make the pessimism of Mr Salolainen a little easier, because it is precisely this sexual and reproductive health work, the improvement of the status of girls, that is, the best work of all, is also seen to be in favour of a faster folding of population growth. Here, too, we have good Nordic cooperation, to which Mr Blomqvist rightly referred. In fact, together the Nordic countries are one major factor in the field of development, bigger than just about anything else. It is also quite understandable that investment-based risk-sharing funding has been raised here. Firstly, let me repeat once again that even if we stop capitalising on Finnfund today, there would be no new euro for spending limits. No euro is excluded from the funding of Finnish development organisations, which is given in an investment form. During the past year, Finnfund has made new investment decisions worth EUR 200 million, more than half of which are for renewable energy. East Africa's largest wind farm, now the largest solar panel project in Asia is planned and so on. These are precisely the infrastructure that is needed for jobs and sustainable growth, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, which is the most important thing that we can hope for in place of despair. Despair is the one that makes people move, and no walls will eventually stop it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u33	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u34	Mr President! Several representatives asked about this international dimension. At the UN, we were one of the first countries to present their own plan for the implementation of Agenda 2030. In the EU, we were driving the mainstreaming of Agenda 2030 and it was adopted in June in the Council conclusions. In the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers, during the Finnish Presidency, we launched the preparations for Nordic Sustainable Development Generation 2030, and the programme is now ready. Finland has also identified Agenda 2030 and climate change as priorities for our Arctic Council Presidency. In other words, the implementation of Agenda 2030 is visible throughout Finland's international cooperation. Congressman Haavisto called for some initiative, some concreteness. In fact, perhaps the most visible part of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda targets, where Finland has taken a leading role in the world, is the promotion of the circular economy. In other words, this organisation of the world's first circular economy forum in June, where more than 100 countries became participants in Finland, was such leadership, and things like this are really needed. Well, then there was also a little criticism that there is a lack of concrete, that lofty ones are spoken. Yes, that's a good question. For example, when Mr Lindtman raised this social sustainability, it was quite concrete decisions about the government's recent budget: the child allowances for single parents were increased, the guarantee pension was increased, the daily care fees for the lowest incomes were reduced, the status of over-indebtedness was improved, substance abuse mothers were taken into account with an additional allowance, shelters were extended, the lowest paternity, maternity and parental allowances were increased. Here's the practicality of social endurance. Then there was the question of which first, the government programme or the objectives of sustainable development. The Government Programme negotiations took place two years ago, and only now do we have these objectives, so they could not affect the Government negotiations two years ago. On the basis of my heart, I hope that the Government's Agenda 2030 implementation targets, which have now been outlined by the Government and which have yet to be formulated by Parliament, will be reflected in the forthcoming Government negotiations, so that the Government Programme is determined to continue to implement Agenda 2030. On the side of climate policy, the question was: how do we now, do we lose jobs in Finland? Not just disappears, but we have just made a policy of rapid, rapid emission reductions at European level, while also safeguarding the position of energy-intensive industries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u35	Then we'll take another debatative tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u36	Mr President! Now we really are at the top of the question for our future, and we have no choice here on earth but to measure our own lives both socially, ecologically and economically sustainablely, and in this report the Committee on the Future has done a good job. This is what we are doing for future generations, and that is why I would have asked the Minister: in Finland too, this young people's own Agenda 2030 group has worked very actively, and they have suggested whether Finland should regulate or take such a new role as guardian of future generations, when we also have a representative for children, such as a representative of future generations, who is specifically responsible for looking at this generation in our decision-making. Has the government considered how to respond to this young people’s desire?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u37	Mr President! With a little conflict of thought, this paper is read. This report is indeed excellent, as is the report, but then we will have to think about how this will be reflected in practical terms. These priorities in Finland, which have been chosen — carbon neutral and resource-wise Finland and an equal, equal and knowledgeable Finland — certainly all of us can sign, but then, in today's policy, the government has cut off education, its policy has been a policy that promotes inequality and undermines equality, and climate change has not been answered quickly enough. I very much hope that this assurance of what is going on in this Chamber today will bring about a change, but unfortunately an example of today's decision in the EU seems to be that the government believes that logging can only be increased and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u38	Mr President! Indeed, as a prosperous country, Finland must take responsibility but also play an active role in various fora. After all, Finland has done this by, among other things, demanding that the European Commission compensate for US cuts in development cooperation in support of women's sexual and reproductive health and rights, where any change in the international role of the United States leaves much room for other actors. Ministers raised these other issues in which Finland has been active, but I think it is important for Finns in international fora to ensure that sustainable development focuses on the essentials and spends the money, even the small money that exists, in an appropriate way. I would also like to underline that it is important that we work for our own economy so that we can get our economies in order and we can afford to increase development funds in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u39	Mr President! In the context of sustainable development, the Government's climate action is ambitious and also concrete. The energy use of hard coal will be abandoned and the use of oil will be halved by 2030. It is in the budget debate that concrete measures have been taken to reduce emissions from transport, for example, by providing support for the purchase and distribution of electricity and biogas cars by developing the whole of Finland. The use of biofuels will be increased by 30% by 2030. These are concrete measures, and now the Finnish forests have been tested in the European Union, and this decision today is positive in the context of sustainable development. We can use annual growth in a sustainable way, but in energy use we can only use wood and forests as by-products, and this, if that gives Finland leverage, so that forests and trees can be used for construction and development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u40	Mr President! I would be optimistic about the future of the world, because this UN 2030 Agenda is such a valuable and good agenda for the whole world. But it is important to quote that it can only be achieved in a truly cooperative multilateral world, in a world of international cooperation. In this respect, there is cause for concern because democracy and the rule of law and international cooperation have taken a step backwards in recent years, and this is where Finland should be active and proactive. It is in the interests of a small country that the world community is able to cooperate and that international cooperation is based on rules and agreements. Here, too, we must pay attention to how we are crediblely promoting the objectives. I refer only to this income distribution report, which came out last week. Inequality has increased, and income has fallen especially in the lowest income decile. True, it is a development that does not give ordinary people faith and confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u41	Mr President! In its opinion, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health stressed the need for measures to promote the well-being and health of children and young people, which we still need. Mood disorders, behavioral disorders, depression threaten Finnish young people and we must take measures to prevent them. This is a great place to bring up the births of girls. I would personally highlight the circumcision of girls and the problems and the things involved. I have just asked a written question about it and I have just received an answer which said that, of course, in Finland the matter is recognised, the issue is being raised, it is being discussed, information packages are being distributed and school health care is being discussed, but are our means of finding out and preventing these cases? THL has also stated that the resources are still not in good condition in school health care and it is also stated in the reply to the written question. I would like to ask you, Minister: in what way do we really get these Agenda measures into that government programme and also the resources in place?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u42	Mr President! There is a lot of good in Agenda 2030. Personally, I think that the most important thing is to strive for resource wisdom and carbon neutrality, because if we fail here and climate change is progressing, then we will lose the prerequisites for success in other areas as well. What makes this so challenging is that we are running out of time. Climate change threatens to move forward in such a way that it becomes a self-absorbing cycle, and at that point the game may be lost. The cost of raising the taxation of peat or cutting fossil subsidies, for example, is much lower than if the world goes into crises, civil wars, people start moving and the economy collapses. This is a real threat, and I would therefore like these fine views, which are contained in Agenda 2030, to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u43	Mr President! Policy coherence, cooperation with other countries, as Mr Tiilikainen mentioned, and the need for concrete action. I would like to raise one point from the Equal, Equal and Skillable Finland priority, i.e. to promote the integration of immigrants in such a way that immigrants' skills are used for the benefit of Finnish society and that immigrants feel that they are part of society. At the beginning of September we had a conference of parliamentarians in the Baltic Sea. There we decided, at the initiative of Finland, to set up this kind of migration working group. There the countries of the Baltic Sea share good practices and then on the other hand, such 'lessons learned' if there have been some challenges. This is precisely the fact that this work is carried out consistently in international fora too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u44	Mr President! Of course, this finding of sustainable development models is a matter of fate for our time, and whether we are pessimists or optimists is not determined by what kind of measures we actually take globally. In this UN emphasis, I think it is essential that it specifically emphasises this inclusion of everyone, together with the sustainability of the planet. That is why I agree with the Minister that this debate, which has been taken up in Finland on a very fast schedule and is also a challenge to the rest of the world, is valuable and should be listed. Then, of course, there is reason to quote this slight contradiction, which relates to this report, and in particular to the issues raised in the report, in relation to our current government programme and the decisions that have proven to have increased inequalities. I would perhaps now raise education at this point, and I would ask and wish the government to take measures to correct the mistakes, so that we really raise this equality in education to the agenda again, because it is also a global model that we are showing and listening to Finland. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u45	Mr President! Humankind has so far published some 50 million scientific articles, half of which have been published over the past 20 years, and it is estimated that over the next 20 to 30 years it will be as much science as it has so far been combined. So maybe the next 20 years can change the world more than the last 200 years. In this context, in this process of change, in the decision-making process of sustainable development and in the management of change, foresight methods should also be used. I would like to ask the Minister: to what extent are these foresight methods used and planned to be used in the future when the policies and decisions are being taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u46	Mr President! Here, among other things, the representative of Estonia raised the rights of women and girls well, and especially those child marriages. I too think it is a very important issue, and the Minister responded very well. Here, among other things, Mr Kontula and many others have backed up these concrete issues that can be verified, and if Mr Mykkänen had been still here, I would have asked him whether it would not be possible to tie these children's marriages to smaller numbers and to improve the status of women to the development aid we also provided, so that we would be able to measure the results of this money. I hope that Mr Tiilikainen will be able to take a position on this. The second point is what Mrs Ruoho said very well about these immigrant families. I myself am particularly concerned about immigrant mothers. How can they be integrated into this society?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u47	Mr President! It's a piece of paper that takes up all the good stuff, but I really do hope that's where it's going to be. One thing that strikes me here — I read one paragraph: "Let's secure a skilled workforce in a changing labour market and prevent exclusion." It's a good idea, but this is backwards. It should be: "Prevent exclusion and secure skilled labour in a changing market." We should get out of that individual's way. This is what we are talking about: unemployed people, laid-off people or those in need of additional training can apply for labour market training. Should we not try to ensure that everyone who is unemployed or laid off gets access to labour market training, that there are no longer any problems ahead of them, that they are able to build their lives on? In addition, there was talk of those who were able to work part time. I would like to add to this the pay for people with disabilities and people with disabilities. That would be extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u48	Mr President! Many speakers have raised the issue of cross-cutting and the need to implement all the administrative sectors, and that is a very important part. Perhaps I would be interested to hear how to proceed with that in concrete terms. As an example, we had a debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in which I asked about the link between this issue and Agenda 2030 and, as it were, an official on that occasion realised that this angle had not been considered, but that would be extremely important and essential. When we think about our vast civil service, a really important part of the progress and the work that goes through the governments is that we have made a great deal of commitment to this process and that there are clear models for it. I would also urge you to consider this relationship between the individual government and the whole of the Agenda and how we will ensure that the Agenda really is the direction it is taking. It was now quite clear that, since the negotiations on the Government Programme had taken place in the past, it was as if there were a situation of necessity, but perhaps some adjustments could have been made, because this same thing will be before us in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u49	Mr President! Both the chairman of the committee and Minister Tiilikainen underlined the indicators for monitoring sustainable development and well-being. This is really important, but it's not quite easy. We know that a great deal of work has been done on this at international level, and one can only hope that there will also be more domestic research in this area and that on this basis Finnish monitoring indicators will be developed, Finnish monitoring in this important area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u50	Mr President! It is very good that Agenda 2030 is here in the debate. I think it is important for the whole Finnish democracy that everyone should be able to deal with it. It has been a problem during this process that when Agenda 2030 is supposed to be today and a long way into the future, then all those means are somehow tied up in this government programme and therefore the objectives and practicality do not meet in this case. Of course, most concretely, everyone in this Chamber recognizes the cut in development cooperation money — that the objectives are the same as in the past, but the means and the euro we are doing it with are half the old ones, and that cannot be achieved. Finland has a responsibility at national and international level, and when one goal is to keep everything involved, even in Finland this will not happen. If we do not have fewer health inequalities and even greater income inequalities, and when it is our responsibility to do this to other countries too, then we should be able to take care of this in our own country first of all that this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u51	Mr President! The report by the Committee on the Future rightly stresses that education, equality, child poverty reduction and migration management are key challenges for Finland in relation to the themes of this action plan. Much to do in Finland and the whole world to improve. I would like to ask the Minister: is the potential large increase in cheap labour as a result of immigration a threat and problem for Finland? As decision-makers, we must also remember that we must not forget the interests and fairness of Finns when we make decisions. This decision by the European Parliament on forests, the compromise proposal, was a good one. We have also raised the issue of improving the position of girls and women globally, and it is at a very worrying level in those poor countries. Population growth is equally a very difficult problem, and the population is only growing [The President knocks ] Representative Salolainen brought out nature, the environment. Of course, it is important for everyone that the earth
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u52	Mr President! In France and the Netherlands, laws have been adopted which oblige companies operating in those countries to take care of human rights throughout their entire chain of operations. And yes, we in Finland should do exactly the same and follow this example as soon as possible. My question is: how does the government intend to promote this French and Dutch model, and how does Finland better monitor that Finnish companies ensure that they operate in a humane and human rights-friendly manner throughout their entire chain of operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u53	Irade the Talman! It is great that we can discuss Agenda 2030 here and that it is directly under the Government, because that is not always the case, as Mr Kosonen has just said. The fact that it is spoken of here indicates that it is an important thing and that it is respected, but, on the other hand, it may also be necessary to evaluate those acts. The actions we are talking about here are largely coordinated at international level within the EU and the UN, which leads to the government's view of the UN and UN agencies. It is easy to assess the matter through the budget, through the cost items that were cut then two years ago. And that was when a very large part of the money from UN organisations was cut under an axe. Is this about government priorities, or was it in that situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u54	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the implementation of the principles of sustainable development here in Parliament and the day-to-day work of the committees. Some committees are naturally dealing with issues such as the Environment Committee and the Environment Minister are certainly familiar with these issues, but I am interested in how we can remember the principles of sustainable development in our own daily work in the committees and in our parliamentary groups and how ministers identify these issues in all sectors of their work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u55	Mr President! The key question, in my opinion, is whether the Agenda for Sustainable Development will guide the Government's policy actions here and now. I don't think so. A good sustainable development policy should be invested in education and knowledge, but instead the government has implemented massive billions of cuts in Finnish competence. It is great that the economy is growing, but now not everyone can enjoy the growth of the economy. The cake grows, but the pieces cut out of it are very different sizes. Income and health inequalities have increased and poverty has increased, and these are all conscious government decisions. There are more and more people in Finland who have to choose between food and medicine. The bread lines have even grown. I would like a comment from the Minister on these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u56	I would also like to give the floor to the representatives of Kontula, Haavisto and Lindtman, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u57	Mr President! I do not think I am a pessimist, rather perhaps a utopian, but the fact is that all the concrete measures that have been decided, taken and planned in this country are not enough to keep us even in place, let alone take us forward in ecological and social development. If we want to prevent child marriage elsewhere, perhaps we should first do so in our own country. If we want to talk about the environment around the world, maybe we should start by doing something about the Finnish ecological footprint four times what this ball lasts. We cannot dodge these questions by focusing on just talking about what we want. We have to start doing something, or else change will happen without our action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u58	Mr President! Some years ago, in this Chamber, we discussed whether the world's poor are interested in the environment, and there was a general perception that only when societies are at a certain level of wealth will they become interested in the environment. This has now proved to be wrong. The world’s poor actually suffer the most from these environmental changes. Great floods, droughts, wells are driving the world’s poorest people into exile. Fortunately, this programme, Agenda 2030 now includes key environmental issues, water, climate, biodiversity and others. But there is also my concern: what is the Finnish Government doing? We have been one of the key supporters of the UN Environment Programme UNEP, which I am well aware of, and now, at the time of this government, for example, we have dramatically withdrawn funding. At a time when these poorest countries and developing countries in the world need to support environmental management too, we should be able to show more of that support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u59	Mr President! The reason that Agenda 2030 has been brought here to Parliament and that it is Parliament that deals with it in an authoritative way is precisely to see whether the measures that Finland is now committed to have an impact on Finland's activities. I have to say that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech shows that his handprint is strongly reflected in this report, because the committee sharpened the agenda and sharpened this aspect of income in its own report and stressed this policy coherence and impact assessment. This means assessing the overall impact of government decisions, for example, on environmental sustainability or social sustainability. And now, Minister Tiilikainen, you listed a number of decisions, but you left out what that is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u60	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u61	Mr President! Thank you for the polar questions. I will start with Mr Paatero's question because it was very relevant, namely the relationship between this government's programme and the Agenda 2030 objectives. It is precisely because we have entered in this action programme the specific issues that we will be able to implement during this parliamentary term, to which this government is committed. We have not registered the very utopias that we then hope will be implemented by one of the next governments. The next government has great opportunities in its own programme to write down those concrete steps forward. So the long-term goal and then the steps we take now in a couple of years — this has been the underlying idea here. The representative, Mr Toivola, asked an excellent question about this cross-section, and in fact the same point was made by Elovaara: how can this be seen in all activities? In fact, I urge you, Mr Toivola himself, to ask any official from any ministry in the committee work whether the 2030 targets have been taken into account. This means that mainstreaming is progressing not only by administrative means but also on the basis of the feedback provided by Parliament. Mr Tuppurainen raised the international aspect, as did many others here, Mr Adlercreutz and so on. I fully agree that only multilateral cooperation will help in these big issues. That's what we're thinking. Finland if anyone supports this multilateral cooperation. And, yes, unfortunately, we also had to cut these funding for UN organisations, but, Mr Haavisto, I am pleased to say that UNEP funding is being strengthened. Fortunately, it is not just the money that depends on the voice and influence, but we have also replaced those financial deficits with more active action. Then, ladies and gentlemen, you have a huge number of fine and detailed questions, which, though, go firmly to all possible administrative areas, and I do not think I can answer on behalf of the various ministers. This simply illustrates how comprehensive Agenda 2030 is. Under it can be discussed about anything. But there are a few things I can contribute to: this biodiversity and endangered organisms – I am very proud that the Government will increase funding for the Metso programme by 10 million for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u64	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u65	Mr President! The Global Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 was adopted at the UN Summit in September 2015 and its implementation started at the beginning of 2016. That's a relatively short period of time. And here I would actually agree with Mr Haavisto that quite a lot has been achieved, and we have to reflect with gratitude and wonder whether our criticisms are sometimes too hard, as we expect global wonders, Nordic wonders, even a Finnish miracle, as it were during one year's implementation, and in that sense I appreciate the well thought-out answers of the ministers. One of the objectives is to eliminate extreme poverty in the world. This objective is an enormous one. It seems that only China, as the only country in the world, is a country that has declared its goal of eradicating poverty and by 2020. The Global Agenda 2030 is a unique achievement for the international community. For the first time in world history, all countries have a joint action programme containing concrete objectives for sustainable development. Mr President! The success of Agenda 2030 depends on its implementation at national level: how concrete they are and how feasible they are and what resources are being allocated to implementation. And it is easy to agree with the criticisms of those Members of Parliament who now find it difficult to see how this programme is being implemented by the government, with such drastic cuts in development cooperation. The Government's Agenda 2030 report sets out two priorities for national action: carbon neutral and resource-wise Finland and an equal, equal and knowledgeable Finland. In addition, the report sets out three policy principles on how the Government implements the 2030 Agenda. The principles are long-term, dynamic, coherent and global partnership, as well as ownership and inclusion. With regard to these priorities and policy principles, the report also sets out concrete measures, and rightly so. Finland implements the objectives of the UN Sustainable Development Programme, in particular through the social commitment to sustainable development "Finland, which we want 2050". The Government's Agenda 2030 implementation plan and the Government's Development Policy Programme want to fulfil all these commitments. This commitment 2050 includes eight targets up to 2050. The objectives include equal opportunities for well-being, a society of people with an impact, sustainable work, sustainable communities and local communities, carbon-neutral society, a resource-wise economy, life-styles that respect nature's carrying capacity, and decision-making that respects nature. When you read this list, you have to say that if we succeed, Finland can be considered an ideal society and the happiness of the universe. The Government’s development policy programme, which is part of Finland’s overall foreign and security policy, contains four priorities. Mr President, as you can see, this cluster of objectives and this enormous detail is so numb that the reader is almost distressed from within. It has to be said that we now have a huge challenge, how on earth all of this will be translated into plain language, into something that is also understandable to the public. One of the key instruments for success is carefully thought-out indicators for evaluation, which the Committee on the Future also pays a great deal of attention to. I shall wait for the concrete content of these indicators, so that we will know whether we will succeed or not. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u66	Mr President! Sustainable development emphasises understanding of the link between economic, social and environmental sustainability, and in decision-making we all know that this is a demanding task. In many cases, these three principles are, in fact, interrelated if not contradictory, at least in a tense relationship, and it is up to us decision-makers to resolve these tensions. Finding a model for sustainable development is a question of the fate of our time, as many have said here, and that is what climate policy and human well-being are all about. In line with the UN definition, it is indeed a question of keeping everyone involved and, at the same time, the sustainability of a common earth. From my background, as a docent of political history, I would like to say that Agenda 2030 is indeed a historic attempt or programme to save the world so widely, which unites the whole world. And perhaps an optimist or an optimist — to quote Mr Kontula — hopes and believes that the Agenda will be the basis of a multi-state government programme and then the means will be sought. At best, the Agenda can succeed in passing many strategic programmes. For example, today the City Council of Helsinki will be discussing a four-year strategy, and in its preparatory work the SDP Group has already made use of the 2030 Agenda, and perhaps there we already have a little more concrete in the range of means than the government has in the field of education, for example. In the next Government Programme we will probably see more of the impact of the 2030 Agenda and I hope that many parties will also take it at the heart of their own preparations. That is what we have already done in the group I represent. Well, then a little criticism and suggestions. However, since Agenda 2030's main message is social sustainability and the idea that everything will be involved, we now have a number of explanations that the decisions taken in Finland in recent years have, however, increased inequality and cut welfare, deepened poverty. The investigation is merciless here. Saving well-being, education and health in the long term usually costs a lot of money. That is why, when I went through that report and the report, I was very pleased because the report raises the level of ambition particularly here in Parliament, thanks to the Committee on the Future. For example, there in the ponies, attentions to meters are really central. Mr President! I would like to return to education as a special theme when we consider further measures in the field of national implementation. Training the entire population has been a choice of values made in Finland decades ago, which has brought us among the wealthiest countries. In the world, we have a strong educational reputation for this very reason. Economic growth and the education of the entire population have gone hand in hand with our development, building trust in society and a strong rule of law — the best sustainable development. That is why we need to take care of education in future solutions. On the one hand, it is about the well-being and well-being of Finland and Finns, but it is also about themes where we have a say and hearers in the world. For example, we can influence the position of women and girls through education, because Finland's education skills are trusted, at least for the time being. Right now we are in a situation where our own levels of education have fallen and the inequalities in education have increased. These developments have long been visible as signals, and we have now come to a situation where, for example, yesterday in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, an expert said that it is not yet too late to act. I therefore hope that the current government and future governments will correct the mistakes that have been made in recent years. We need an ambitious level of equality in education in Finland as well as in development work in the world, and these need the resources that will be discussed in this Chamber next week. As an example, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised free early childhood education. It would indeed be a future investment and sustainable development at its best. Nobellist economists have shown the effectiveness of early childhood education. The euro, which has been invested, comes back many times, up to seven times. In addition, Finnish early childhood education has been quoted for the best in the world, so we should hear the emergency screams now from the airport so that this success story is not compromised. Mr President! We know in Finland that education is the most effective way to change the world and keep everyone involved and strengthen sustainable economic growth. This is why education must be a key element of sustainable development efforts and follow-up measures based on Agenda 2030 and the reflection of indicators in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u67	Mr President! We are discussing here today a very important issue that concerns all of us and the whole world community, our common future. In autumn 2015, the UN Member States agreed on the 2030 Agenda and concrete targets for sustainable development. The adoption of these objectives was an important milestone. However, all of us need to make a contribution in order to achieve them. Sustainable development is, to a large extent, a common issue. The UN’s sustainable development objectives are universal, so they apply to all countries, but also to the private sector and civil society — that is, to each of us. Sustainable development is not a zero-sum game, there are no winners and no losers. In its 2030 report, the Finnish Government has set out two priorities for national action: carbon-neutral and resource-wise Finland and an equal, equal and knowledgeable Finland. These priorities are to be welcomed. However, it is important that Finland also plays its part in achieving sustainable development objectives at global level. The key principle of Agenda 2030 is that no one is left behind, and Finland is committed to raising development cooperation funding to 0.7% of GDP, and this must be done consistently. However, the government's cuts to development cooperation funds have taken Finland further away from this goal and affected the work of development actors, making it increasingly difficult to work for sustainable development. Mr President! It is wonderful and noteworthy that in Finland's development policy, the strengthening of the rights of girls and women is on a high agenda. The world needs feminism, equality. The world needs feminist cooperation. Finland should promote a feminist foreign and security policy. This and gender equality in general is worth investing in, and there is much to be done in Finland, although it must be quoted that we too still have a lot of work to do in Finland to promote equality. It is regrettable that children's subjective day care rights have been cut, which undermines the labour market position of women. And it is also regrettable that, when we discussed the role of girls globally in this parliamentary debate, too many girls get into adulthood too early with marriage, we also have the dark spot that Finnish legislation still allows for child marriages. This has not remained an empty letter in the legislation, but in the last 20 years more than 1,100 children in Finland have married, of which over 900 have been girls, some up to the age of 14 to 15. These sustainable development objectives also apply to us, the rights of girls and children also apply to us, and this detail, among other things, needs to be corrected as a matter of urgency. It is worth noting that the EU has set gender equality, women's empowerment and the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 as cross-cutting themes for the EU's key objectives in the UN, which are stronger global governance, peace and conflict prevention and a sustainable agenda for change. The importance of gender equality cannot be overemphasized. It is essential not only for the peace and stability of societies, but also for sustainable development and for the well-being of societies. Sustainable development cannot be built on oppressive societies. President! Agenda 2030 can best be promoted under conditions that respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It can only be achieved in the context of multilateral, rule-based international cooperation, where democracy and the rule of law are maintained. However, recent developments both outside the EU and, unfortunately, within the EU have been worrying. This requires a change, and Finland must be a guide. Commitment is needed to achieve the agreed objectives. Finland must give strong emphasis to the importance of sustainable development objectives for the future of the nations in international fora. For our own sake and for our children's sake.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u68	Ärade talman, Mr President! Just over a month ago on August 2 was the world's over-consumption day. Then we had exhausted the planet’s renewable resources this year. After that, we live in debt — spending more than the earth can produce. Every year we spend faster. Compared to 2015, the over-consumption date was 12 days earlier this year. Finland's overconsumption day was long ago, April 3. So we Finns spent our share of the world's natural resources in three months. We'd need almost four worlds if everyone were to spend like us. It is therefore clear that we need programmes such as the 2030 Agenda, which are guiding us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u69	Mr President! I said in the referral debate on the report on sustainable development in the early part of the year that the level of ambition of the report should be raised during the committee reading. Sustainable development goes beyond parliamentary periods and party boundaries. In fact, sustainable development is the fate of this round ball of ours. As a promoter of sustainable development, Finland must be an active and key actor. It is also in the interests of Finland. In this context, I should like to express my thanks to colleagues in the Committee on the Future. We worked well with the opposition-government cross-border and managed to raise the report to a new level during a long committee reading. During the process, it became clear how important and central the issue is when we discuss sustainable development. I think it was progressive that this report was just submitted to the Committee on the Future. Indeed, sustainable development will safeguard the conditions for mankind’s life now and especially in the future. Sustainable development includes equal opportunities for well-being, inclusion of citizens, sustainable work, sustainable societies and local communities, lifestyles that respect the carrying capacity of nature, carbon-neutral society and a resource-wise economy. The main theme of the UN’s sustainable development is: to keep everyone involved. It is a good guideline at global, national and also local level. On this basis, we will certainly succeed in creating a better world for all, as long as we work together to ensure that measures are implemented at the practical level. Mr President! This report on sustainable development is good and worthy in many respects, but the question is: does it genuinely and concretely guide the policy actions in Finland? Now I feel like I'm not steering. The policy is currently overly controlled by short-term cuts. The scourge of our policy is the rhetoric of necessity and optionlessness. The principles of sustainable development are currently secondary. For example, we have international research data that large income disparities are hampering economic growth. From an international perspective, Finland does not yet have a large income gap, and it has been one of Finland’s successful recipes. But this is the wrong direction. For example, next year's budget decisions will increase income differentials. This is not fair, but it is not a sensible future policy either. Investments in the well-being of all benefit society as a whole. Cuts at the wrong places cost society dearly. This has been identified in this report and should also be the aim of the government. Mr President! My message is that the benefits of the welfare economy are obvious and sustainable development at its best. The present government and the next governments should put this at the heart of their policy as the red thread of political action as a whole. Sustainable development cannot be a secondary issue. It is also not enough for the government to respect the principles of sustainable development. They must also be delivered to municipalities and local level. Right now, several municipalities are developing municipal strategies where sustainable development should be central. It should be borne in mind that even if social welfare is transferred from municipalities to provinces, the promotion of health and well-being remains the basic task of the municipality. Through them, the welfare economy can be easily raised to the strategic focus of the municipality. Work to combat climate change and decisions to improve the carrying capacity of the environment must also be a central theme of municipal strategies. A good example is the so-called carbon neutrals, or Hinku municipalities. It is at local level that good and effective environmental policies are being pursued. Mr President! The decisions now taken will have a long-term impact on the future and we therefore need more foresight tools to better measure the long-term impact of our decisions. So when we cut a certain amount of something, what effect does it have in a human and economic way? Or the other way around: if we invest a certain amount in a particular matter, can we, for example, save money for the future? It would be important to make use of the impact assessment and to calculate alternative costs. These things have been forgotten by the modern government. There is no point in setting targets if they cannot be followed in concrete terms. There are gauges, but we have not been able to make enough use of them and their introduction is very difficult. Gross domestic product alone is a very narrow measure of well-being, and that is what we all know. It is high time that new instruments were introduced and that qualitative evaluation methods were also used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u70	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr Talman! The Government's report on Agenda 2030 highlights many important aspects of the work on sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u71	Mr President! Firstly, I must say that I am extremely pleased that the Government has taken account of the ideas put forward in the report by the Committee on the Future. For example, the coordination group received resource reinforcements and is very important. The UN 2030 Agenda is even a process of historical importance, as has been said many times here. For the first time, the countries of the world have common objectives for sustainable development. If the road to sustainable development can be achieved jointly, it can indeed be the most important decision for mankind. But success depends, of course, on the extent to which the countries of the world are committed to the agenda. The position of the EU and also Finland as a pioneer is a very fine and important example. Indeed, Finland has received praise and positive attention for its efforts to push forward Agenda 2030. I think that the ministers here have said a lot about the very good things that have started to be done in that government and its office. This process has been important. The implementation of the 2030 Agenda was immediately launched and the Government presented the Action Plan as a report to Parliament. It now gives the opportunity for a wide-ranging debate in Parliament and, most importantly, for monitoring measures every year. In my opinion, the government has involved a wide range of stakeholders in the process of drawing up and implementing the operational programme. A versatile system of indicators for monitoring measures and effectiveness is also essential. By the way, it is not always easy to create a set of indicators. I am glad that this work is being done very hard. The Future Committee heard a very wide range of experts, and those selected priorities — carbon-neutral and resource-wise Finland and Non-Discrimination, Equality and Knowledge Finland — are well founded. Sustainable well-being in a changing world requires parallel indicators of the welfare economy for GDP, which has also been mentioned many times here, and this is a very important issue. The policy coherence of sustainable development must indeed be promoted on a long-term basis, and more emphasis must be placed on the sustainability of public procurement, for example. Responsible consumption, recycling, favouring local food, reducing food losses, improving food safety and renewable energy solutions for both mobility and heating are good examples of this. I also believe that the foreign policy profile of Finland needs to be further strengthened by raising the objectives of Agenda 2030 on the international tables with great effort – the Arctic Council and the Nordic Council, the EU and the UN have been mentioned here many times today in the debate, and that is how it is. The Government has committed itself to direct 0.7% of gross national income to development cooperation, and achieving this objective would require a concrete plan and a timetable. I certainly agree with the statements of the critics on this point. Sustainable development objectives will not be achieved without the involvement of the private sector. Strengthening private sector entrepreneurship and capacity in developing countries to create new jobs is to a very large extent sustainable development and a sustainable partnership. The organisations rightly emphasise the need to ensure that companies operate responsibly. Of course, that is the way it should be. Since the projects and activities of development funder Finnfund are often still misconstrued, it is worth noting that in 2016, for example, 82% of Finnfund's investment decisions were made in three of the poorest countries identified by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. In 2015, the companies financed by Finnfund directly employed 25,600 people, and the companies whose investments Finnfund had been involved in financing paid taxes and payments to the State amounting to EUR 285 million in their operating countries. No bad results. And, of course, support for the tax capacity of developing countries will continue, and Finnfund and the European Development Finance Institutions are now in the process of reforming their common tax policy. The Youth Agenda 2030 Group makes very good comments in its contribution: The active participation of young people in decision-making, in particular in decision-making that promotes the ecological and social objectives of sustainable development, must be ensured. It must be possible to stop generational inequalities. The objectives of each level of education must include understanding sustainable development and human rights education and so on. The inclusion of young people in decision-making tables and processes at all stages is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u72	Mr President! As the report of the Committee on the Future states, the origins of sustainable development are in the protection of nature and the environment. In Finland, the Ministry of the Environment has played a key role in the formulation and coordination of sustainable development policy since the establishment of the Sustainable Development Commission. Finland implements the external dimension of the 2030 Agenda through development and foreign policy actions. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the implementation of Agenda 2030 has been taken into account in concrete terms as a joint result target for next year. Ensure that Finland’s foreign policy in all areas contributes to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda objectives. In fact, Agenda 2030 is one of the major issues at UN, EU and regional cooperation and bilateral meetings where Finland promotes the 2030 Agenda objectives. In addition, by promoting mediation, which is one of the priorities of Foreign Minister Soin, Finland is implementing Agenda 2030. In February 2016, the Government adopted a Development Policy Report, which is a red thread for the implementation of Agenda 2030. This development policy agenda contains four priorities that are strongly linked to the objectives of the 2030 Agenda: 1) strengthening the rights and status of girls and women; 2) developing economies in developing countries to boost jobs, livelihoods and prosperity; 3) the democratic and functional capacity of societies; and 4) improved access to food security, water and energy and the sustainability of natural resources. In the development policy report, the Government is committed to promoting these priorities. This report on Agenda 2030 does not want to repeat all the guidelines of the Development Policy Report in detail. Finland also implements the 2030 Agenda as the Arctic Council Presidency, for example. The promotion of sustainable development in the Arctic region is at the heart of the Council's activities, and that is the way it should be. For example, Agenda 2030 requires at least 10% of coastal and maritime areas to be protected by 2020. This is also mentioned in the Finnish programme. The well-being of the inhabitants of the Arctic region is supported by three pillars of sustainable development: the economic, social and environmental dimensions. In addition, activities affecting the well-being of the inhabitants of the Arctic Council include health, water resources, energy, infrastructure and the culture and languages of indigenous peoples, thereby contributing to the achievement of the Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. One of the most important things is that the report promises an assessment of how Finland’s foreign policy in all administrative sectors contributes to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda objectives and how coherence of action to promote sustainable development beyond Finland’s borders could be improved. It is also good to be specific here, that is to say to tell us what means are being taken to achieve these objectives. In addition, monitoring is carried out annually in the Board of Directors’ Annual Report. It is also good to be aware that Finland is one of the first developed countries to draw up a national plan for the implementation of Agenda 2030. Finland is a leader in the implementation of Agenda 2030 and has received praise for its activity in the world. This is a very good thing for Finland and also for Finland's country photography work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u73	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know what is most important in the next 15 years: climate change. Climate change is not about a single policy sector or one of the others. It is even a matter of preserving a society that is far from the present. Why should we mourn the sovereign debt if money ceases to exist? What good is a few new tanks at the border if the great powers need our water resources. What will help a highly educated population if it is not even able to keep its country viable? We all know this, as is the case with the fact that this country and this house no longer have time to make any decision, big or small, without taking climate change into account. Finland cannot hide behind the fact that what such a small country can do now, because everyone can and must, because rich countries such as Finland have to take responsibility in particular and because, in terms of ecological footprint, Finland is not small but large. We spend four times what we can afford and right. Agenda 2030 hopes for a lot that is easy to join: a more sustainable and ecological world. However, it does not provide or oblige concrete means of achieving the objectives. Nor can they be found in other government documents that we would even do our part. Even if we look at all the concrete things that have been done in this country, at the concrete things that have been decided and at the concrete things that have just been planned, they will not together be enough to keep progress even at the current level. In addition to all this, in Parliament’s everyday life and practices, tomorrow’s big things are very easy to lose to the smaller things of today. We are very good at inventing excuses for why we do not have to care so much about climate change: because Finland is a northern country, our carbon footprint can be a little bigger. However, since there would be even more pollution elsewhere, our factories will be contaminated. There must be a solution to these issues, because this is no longer the way we can live, because our children will in time pay a multiple price for all the delay, for every wasted day that we are now allowing to take place. Climate change is the question against which future generations of our work in this house will measure. Climate change is the question on which future history will be written. We must therefore also ask this House how to measure its own success, with which we measure our success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u74	Mr President! At the turn of the century, the UN adopted the so-called Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), in particular on the reduction of poverty, maternal and child mortality and communicable diseases. Although not all the objectives have been achieved, there have been significant improvements in many areas. In 2015, the UN Summit adopted the basis for this issue, namely the Sustainable Development Goals. When the MDGs specifically concerned helping poor developing countries, these SDGs apply to all countries. Of course, the eradication of extreme poverty is still important, but now the starting point is common problems. We are all on the same planet, and its future lies in the hands of all of us. Only sustainable development can safeguard the environment, nature and human health and well-being in a globalised world. These include combating climate change, access to clean water and reducing inequalities. While globalisation brings many benefits, uncontrolled, it also creates problems for the environment and the health of the population. Sustainable development requires sustainable production and consumption patterns. It also requires international agreements to protect nature and people, and good examples of such are international climate agreements and the international tobacco convention, which, with stringent measures, aim to reduce the number of deaths caused by tobacco by around 5 million deaths per year. The UN listed 17 main sustainable development objectives and their sub-objectives. Many of them are related. So, for example, goal number 3, Health and well-being, is closely linked to goals such as good education, no hunger, No poverty and less inequality. When the health objectives of the MDGs were focused on communicable diseases, the SDGs strongly highlight non-communicable lifestyle diseases, which have become a problem for the world's mainstream health, but also in developing countries, not only in terms of public health but also in terms of social and economic development. Sustainable development principles play a key role in the fight against lifestyle diseases, both in us and elsewhere. While the development of medical care is important — and this is what we are talking about — the state of public health and the distribution of well-being depend essentially on lifestyles, living conditions and the structure of society. Consider Costa Rica, where the life expectancy is about the same as in the USA and much more evenly distributed, even though the US spends many times as much on healthcare as Costa Rica. A cost-effective and sustainable way of affecting public health is basically the solution to sustainable development in lifestyles and living conditions. Finland's 2030 target programme for sustainable development provides a good background for decision-making in Finland. It is a question of education and production development to support sustainable development, a good environment and the well-being of the population. In concrete terms, this is about, among other things, the means of energy production towards good climate and environmental protection or healthy lifestyles and food production on the basis of sustainable development. Although the aim is to eradicate poverty and to achieve sufficient economic prosperity, it must be remembered that the real well-being and health of the population are limited to the economic level. Money and consumer hysteria must not prevail over the health of people or the environment. Agenda 2030 also emphasises cooperation and the responsibility of the various parties. In order to achieve these objectives, partnership is needed, both with the state, NGOs and businesses. In this respect, it is good that this top-notch report is being dealt with here in Parliament. And even though it is a Government report, the implementation of the objectives requires much longer than the term of government. The report is well prepared and the priorities chosen are good. It is also desirable that Finland is sufficiently involved internationally in promoting sustainable global well-being. It is also good that the Committee on the Future has dealt with this matter carefully. The Committee's views are to be welcomed. In particular, I would like to emphasise the recommendation that other indicators of sustainable development and well-being could be developed alongside GDP. We must remember, as Kofi Annan once said, that people do not live for the economy, but the economy should serve man. I therefore hope that the principles of this programme can be implemented as much as possible in Finland. I believe that we should be talking about the 'UN Sustainable Development Goal' programme. Agenda 2030 is a very administrative bureaucratic term and it is not easy to open up to the general public. Finally, this important programme should form the basis for many decisions in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u75	Mr President! From the beginning of the week, I met with the Youth Agenda 2030 Group, and the message for young people is: today's decisions are essential to the realisation of intergenerational justice. It is important for young people to be closely involved in this work. To date, systematic actions have brought about, for example, a halve of absolute poverty and a reduction in infant mortality worldwide. Development cooperation, among other things, has resulted in more and more girls in the world getting into school. Indeed, the fifth of the 2030 targets is simply to achieve gender equality and to strengthen the rights and opportunities of women and girls. As stated in the report of the Committee on the Future, support for this objective is particularly important now that the new US administration is cutting budgets from organisations that help women and families with family planning. Family planning that respects women’s rights means that a woman can decide on her body and when she wants to have children. In 1995, many here and myself attended the UN Conference on the Status of Women in Beijing. The final document of the meeting will be a turning point for women. Women's rights are human rights and sexual rights were included. This decision could now be used by women in developing countries to defend their rights. We all know that teenage pregnancy prevents girls from getting trained. Organized and forced marriages deprive you of the right to decide on your own body. We also know that 70,000 women die every year from unsafe abortions in the world. In Finland, women's and girls' rights have been one of the main objectives of Finland's development policy for a long time, for years. In many other countries, such as Sweden, the entire policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been designated as a feminist policy, i.e. all activities and decisions will also be looked at from the perspective of how they affect men and women, girls and boys. I also believe that education should be placed at the centre of development cooperation alongside the strengthening of the role of women. The participation of girls in education and literacy continue to lag behind. However, better education for girls and women could avoid up to half of child marriages. Mr President! At the beginning of this government term, the budget for development cooperation has been drastically reduced. At the same time, the relative share of funding for work supporting equality in Finland's development cooperation has decreased from 44% to 31%. Thus, the talk of Finland’s main focus on development policy has largely lost credibility if resources are not allocated to this. Agenda 2030 applies not only to developing countries but also to us. Violence against women, the unequal distribution of family leave and a strongly gendered labour market all require decisive correction here in the country as well. Increasing inequality is also a social security issue. Implementation in Finland must not only remain on the level of speech, but well-chosen guidelines also require actions in Finland. Monitoring, indicators, everything that systematically does this work is essential and important. Mr President! It is also important to influence the management of corporate tax evasion and the informal economy affecting developing countries. The OECD, the EU and the UN agree on this problem. Finland must be at the forefront of this work, so that developing countries also have money in their own budgets and cashiers, which can then build a well-being and services, a well-being society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u76	Mr President! We need to give concrete thought to how, as a nation, we need to change our actions so that Finland can achieve the objectives of sustainable development and support the rest of the world in the implementation of the Agenda. We need everyone involved: countries, municipalities, citizens, businesses. In order to implement the 2030 measures, not only voluntary action is needed but also binding legislation and sanctions. Blind implementation of the mantra of deregulation could jeopardise the achievement of sustainable development objectives. Mr President! Two years ago, the government cut about 40% of development cooperation. These giant cuts directly affect the lives of the poorest people in developing countries. Finland’s development policy has also suffered major cuts in support of girls and women in developing countries. The Committee on the Future notes that the achievement of the 2030 Agenda targets will place increasing expectations and needs for the quality and quantity of Finland's development cooperation which cannot be met within the framework of reduced development resources. The committee is therefore in favour of raising development funding to 0.7% of gross national income in line with the UN and EU objectives. However, development funding alone is not enough to put developing countries on the road to sustainable development. We must influence the structures of the global economy, the tax haven economy and the distortion of international trade if the problems of developing countries are to be resolved in a sustainable way. Work against the tax haven economy is essential for the implementation of the Agenda and should also be more visible in Finnish politics. Mr President! Addressing climate change and other environmental problems is a key issue if we want to build a sustainable future. It is great that the Government's implementation plan and the report of the Committee on the Future have identified climate change as the main challenge. However, there is unfortunately little concreteness and new openings. Overconsumption and climate emissions are perhaps the biggest challenge for sustainable development in Finland. That is where we have the most to do, so we need more ambition and more concreteness. It is not easy and it is not cheap, but it must be done and it must be done soon. Mr President! In Finland, many indicators for sustainable development are at a good level, but unfortunately the trend is falling. As the Administrative Committee also states, the increase in inequality has a negative impact on Finland's internal security and well-being. Welfare, democracy, reliable governance, the rule of law and functioning institutions form the basis for the stability and internal security of society. Protecting them and reducing inequalities is essential for the sustainable development of both Finland and other countries. This will hopefully also be noted in the Government, as the decisions made during the Government term deepen the income differentials of Finns according to the Parliamentary Information Service. Mr President! Bills and budgets should be assessed from the perspective of sustainable development. Sustainable development must be an integrated perspective both in the civil service and in Parliament, especially in economic and fiscal decision-making. It is great that the government budget has been promised to be assessed from the perspective of sustainable development and that the 2030 Agenda will be dealt with by the parliamentary term as reports and progress will be reported as part of the Government's Annual Report. Thank you for this! However, it is important that the review is not left on as a post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex post-ex In the spirit of the Agenda, I would also like to encourage the government and ministries to carry out comprehensive gender, income distribution and environmental impact analyses as an established part of the legislative work. Mr President! Policy coherence is essential, and that is where we still have work to do. For example, the Committee on Foreign Affairs feels that the mutual cohesion between Finland's foreign and security policy and Agenda 2030 is weak. An example of this is arms exports. Peace is a condition for sustainable development, but Finland still exports weapons to countries in whose hands they threaten to end up in conflict. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on the Future for addressing the challenge of sustainable growth. Economic growth is an instrument, but today it is too often understood as an absolute value. The ultimate goal of development and growth is prosperity, which can also grow without economic growth, and on the other hand, economic growth does not always necessarily mean an increase in well-being. Instead of growth, attention must be paid to comprehensive well-being. I therefore very much welcome the call by the Committee on the Future to develop parallel indicators of the welfare economy alongside GDP and to develop reliable monitoring indicators for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u77	Mr President! Very often, in this Chamber, there is a debate as to whether environmental protection will destroy the economy, even though time and again intimidation has proved to be unwarranted. In the '60s and '70s, demands were made to clean up water emissions from industry. It was then claimed that it would end the paper industry and other industries. In the early 1980s, when it was required to clean up the sulphur emissions from factories and power plants in order to overcome acid rains, it was claimed that electricity prices were rising sharply and industry was fleeing elsewhere. At the same time, when it was required to ban substances that destroy the ozone layer in the upper atmosphere, it was claimed that it would make refrigerators and cooling impossible. In the early 1990s, when car catalytic converters were required and lead bans on petrol were claimed to stop driving. At the beginning of the 21st century, it was claimed that the Kyoto climate agreement will destroy Finnish industry. All this intimidation has proved to be unwarranted. About five years ago, Finnish industry was claimed to be destroyed when ship sulphur emissions were required to be cleaned. It is now recognised that new environmental standards for shipping have been a lucky break for the Finnish shipbuilding industry. Right now it is claimed that it is a matter of fate for the Finnish forest industry that we are allowed to grow forest fellings so much that the carbon sink of forests is decreasing, but we do not need to compensate for the climate impact of this by reducing emissions in other industries. When do we dare to trust that the choice of environmentally sustainable alternatives is actually possible and also good for the economy? Mr President! The report by the Committee on the Future is very commendable. One thing to say in it is that Finland’s baseline in the implementation of the UN 2030 global targets is good at international level. On the other hand, it states that we have not moved forward in recent years in relation to any of the key objectives. It doesn't help to lull into the self-loathing. We need to see where we need to heal. Finland’s main strengths have been high-quality education and knowledge based on it and the overall stability of society. I find it very worrying that many recent decisions undermine our key strengths. For example, drastic cuts in vocational training have led to less and less proper education in vocational training, more and more so-called self-learning, which means that the students most in need of support are in practice at a loss. Today, Aleksis Salusjärvi, a journalist who traveled through Finnish vocational schools, even called this an irresponsible human experiment. In this parliamentary debate, many colleagues have rightly stressed the need to improve the rights of women and girls and to work on sexual and reproductive health in development cooperation. It has also been highlighted by Mr Mykkänen, and the Government's Development Policy Report sets out the first priority for the strengthening of women's and girls' rights. Mr Haatainen, among other things, has already stated that in practice the government has cut development funds very sharply, by more than EUR 230 million, and, once these funds have been reduced, has the proportion of work supporting gender equality increased? No, it has decreased by 13 percentage points. Mr President! Emissions resulting from climate change and over-consumption of natural resources are the areas where we have the most to improve. It is time to realize that it is not about how virtuous we are. It is a question of whether an organized human civilization is possible in the future. The last three decades have all been the hottest in measuring history, the last three years have all been the hottest in measuring history. We have already raised the carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere higher than it has ever been during the existence of Homo sapiens. And climate change is not the only thing where we are crossing the limits of the planet's resilience. Mr President! I fully agree with what many Members have said about climate change, such as Mr Kontula. How society now views climate change,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u78	Mr President! What unites the world’s 7.6 billion people? At least two things: this world that we share and the dream of a better tomorrow. We all dream of the same things: being able to realize ourselves and be a meaningful part of society, being able to build a little better starting points for our own children than we had. And for this we all need the same things: clean water and food, the opportunity to go to school and find work, a safe place to call home, respect for our human rights, a society that offers us opportunities as well as a safety net that supports and captures if we fall. For this to happen, we must take care of the carrying capacity of our common earth, its natural resources, forests, seas and climate. The Agenda 2030 targets will contribute to this. Mr President! Work to promote these objectives must be carried out in all countries and at all levels. It requires decisions from us, both here in Parliament and in the provinces and in our own countries. It also requires action in international arenas, the Nordic Council, the EU and the UN. In its report, the Committee on the Future has proposed ten concrete ways of promoting these objectives. They're worth it. Citizens must be involved extensively in achieving the objectives. Coordination is needed, there is a need to link objectives to other policy programmes and practical decisions. Finally, we need to reach 0.7% of our development funding, and it is important to create indicators to monitor the progress of the objectives. Mr President! The 2030 targets also apply to Finland. Finland has traditionally been at the top of the world when studying e.g. school success, safety or equality. Our story is less successful in terms of decent work, responsible consumption, climate action or forest protection — where the indicators show us red. And it is not even a matter of taking for granted that we maintain the strength that we have now had. For example, massive cuts in education threaten our skills. Instead of surgery, we need genuine training efforts. Everyone must have the opportunity to study regardless of their parents' income and to provide adequate support throughout the learning process. All children must have the right to early childhood education, because we know that this is the key to equalising the school path for children from different backgrounds. We need a fair policy to reduce inequalities, reduce income disparities and ensure adequate basic security. Unfortunately, the decisions taken by the government have been the opposite. Mr President! The greatest challenge of our time is the fight against climate change. We need an ambitious climate policy where Finland will be carbon-free by 2035 and where protected areas will increase instead of logging. We don't have time to wait. Climate change is progressing rapidly, accelerating itself. From the point of view of combating climate change, it is therefore worrying that the report's climate action is largely based on the Government's energy and climate strategy. It is worrying because the strategy is inadequate and does not meet the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. The worst shortcomings are the use of peat for energy purposes and increased logging in the name of the bioeconomy. In addition, compensation for indirect costs of emission auctions to industry and the diversion of auction revenues from development and climate finance is incompatible with both the SDGs and the Paris Climate Agreement. I cannot fail to raise the issue of development cooperation cuts either. The Government has closed a number of successful development programmes. The sexual education and education of girls has been cut, although equality was supposed to be one of the priorities of development policy. We need global accountability and the fulfilment of the promised 0.7 commitment. Mr President! The goals of sustainable development show Nordic values — no wonder, because the Nordic countries have played a key role in achieving them. This is something to be proud of. We have a responsibility to act as a pioneer in the implementation of sustainable development goals both at home and in the world and to find financing models that serve as an example. Let's carry it in a way we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u79	Mr President! This Government Report on the Global Agenda for Sustainable Development states that the Government Programme of Finland is strongly linked to the objectives of Agenda 2030, such as the bioeconomy and clean technologies. This is a good example of the long - range wisdom of the government programme when it has already been able to prepare for this in advance. In other words, the programme has already guided the government programme in advance before it was born, as has been required and stressed here how the programme should work. The programme also states that foreign and security policy supports the promotion of a global partnership by emphasising international stability, peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality in the world of interdependence. Sustainable development is also a prerequisite for a secure society in a changing environment. On the other hand, the overall security of society and the vital functions of society depend on the realisation of sustainable development. Maintaining security is a fundamental task for society and all its members. This implementation plan sets out the main Government priorities and measures for Finland’s domestic implementation, which improve Finland’s sustainable development in economic, social and environmental terms. Mr President! In my opinion, one major change in the Finnish sustainable development policy took place during the Government negotiations in spring 2015, when the bioeconomy and clean solutions were included in the programme. The availability of energy and the sustainability of natural resources, which rely on sustainable development, are the right direction to take the objectives set in a direction that there is no return from. Although Finland is a small and sparsely populated country, the example of our country is making a global contribution to the fact that large, population-rich countries, which are, among other things, in waste management at the level of Finland’s development in the 1980s, will rapidly develop their waste management in the same direction and develop second-generation fuels from their huge waste streams with Finnish technology, and at the same time our exports will increase for this reason. This is the focus of my government, namely the bioeconomy and clean solutions, which supports the Government's report on the Global Agenda for Sustainable Development in the best possible way. This is also supported by the European Parliament's decision today to adopt a change in the land-use sector's emissions calculation, which is equal for the Member States. The vote reversed the random calculation of carbon sinks in forests, which would have relied on the historical level of use and would have destroyed Finland’s sustainable development goals. Mr President! The government has therefore succeeded in this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u80	Mr President! The objective of the 2030 Agenda is to increase social justice, ensure the environment and at the same time improve the sustainability of the economy. These are good objectives, and hardly anyone will deny it, but I see that the implementation of the practical implementation of the programme at international level by all countries will be extremely challenging. True Finns see that tightening energy taxation under the 2030 Agenda and any reduction in subsidies are threatening to turn heavily against environmental and economic objectives if they are implemented alone by Finland and other European countries. True Finns do not want to pay for sustainable development goals from the pocket of a Finnish worker. This would be the case, for example, if the objectives of the umbrella organisation for development cooperation, Kepa, were to be met. For example, if subsidies for energy-intensive sectors are over-removed, they will move away from Finland. This is a so-called carbon leakage in which industry escapes to countries where the environment is ignored. I hope this does not happen. True Finns want to keep industry and jobs where the environment is given high value, and it can be said that Finnish work is a real ecological act. We must not think that out of sight and out of mind. Mr President! The objectives of Agenda 2030 are good in their own right, but the Finns fear that all these objectives will not be achieved if Kepa's hopes, for example, for the abolition of energy-intensive sectors or agricultural subsidies are realised. The Finnish is a responsible person who wants to leave a clean environment as an inheritance for posterity, and that is why we want to keep the yarns in our own hands. Mr President! The ecological crisis is a reality, and it is now and in the future that international cooperation is needed to deal with it. I am sure we will all agree on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-13-ps-86.u81	Mr President! At the end of the day, a couple of things briefly and perhaps even a little together. Despite all the problems, I want to believe in the future. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development demonstrates the importance and strength of international cooperation. The role of the UN as an international organisation in the world of conflict is central. If there is a common view on such an important issue as sustainable development, then we must believe that the international community will be able to do anything, for example, to eradicate poverty in the world. It is good that Finland’s development policy focuses on improving the position of girls and women. However, it is not fitting that the government has drastically cut the budget for development cooperation, precisely for those organisations that are working to improve the position of girls and women there at grassroots level. In the face of the great challenges facing the world, there is a danger that Finland will curl up, and this should by no means be the case, but we must rise to be a bigger player in the world, because it will benefit everyone, and so should we ourselves. Sustainable development is not an activity to be pursued there somewhere, it is an activity here, every day, in every choice we make and in every decision we make. It must be kept in mind that in a world of interdependence, challenges in the world are also challenges in Finland. Mr President! We must now all ensure that this report does not remain dusty in the file, but begins to live in the choices and decisions of our decision-makers. That's how it lives in the everyday lives of every citizen. This is how sustainable development becomes a reality. That is what we have been chosen to do — to make decisions about a better world.
