ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given by Mr Tuula Haatainen and others. to the intermediate question VK 2/2017 vp on the government reform of social welfare and health care. After the Government's reply and the speech by Mr Tuula Haatainen, the debate on the interim issue will take place at a rapid pace, with group speeches of no more than 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u2	Every time a new one is created, questions and concerns arise. There are concerns that we share together and that have been actively sought for solutions. Answers have also been found in the preparation. This is a very important reform. We take the feedback from the consultation that ended last Wednesday seriously. We have wanted to look at factors that will certainly make Finns a good choice, which will start in 2019. However, there are bogeymen who are painted purposefully by the opposition and who are too glaringly black in color. I hope that today's debate will dispel unnecessary fears and provide answers to those who genuinely worry about the future of our social and health care systems. The Government acts as a responsible guardian of the future. In its criticism, the opposition forgets the current situation in practice completely. If nothing is done, the services will continue to decline slowly. Among other things, inequalities in access to treatment are increasing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u13	Madam President! We are prepared to work together to achieve the goals of the social welfare reform at the turn of 100 years in Finland. Social reform is so important that it should not be built around the ideology of any single political party. The main force behind this reform should be the confidence created only through parliamentary preparation. The Sipilä government chose otherwise. It put a political agreement ahead of trust, a political agreement which, through an internal crisis within the government, is tied together by a market model and a regional model. The government plays with people's health and well-being. The changes in the government's timetable are so cosmetic that they do not remove major concerns shared by experts and also by opposition. Basic services, such as health centres, must be incorporated in this government proposal and made to compete with private companies for customers. "The model of freedom of choice does not contribute to the original The planned timetable for implementation of the reform is too tight without the freedom of choice model and consideration should be given to staggering the implementation of the reform." This is not the case with the opposition you accuse of intimidation. This is what Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo's hometown Turku states in his statement to the proposal for the incorporation of the Board of Directors. [Left: Ohoh!] Mr President! People want simple things from social welfare and health services: You need to get into care without waiting in line. Customer fees should not prevent you from going to a doctor. The quality must be in order. Social services must be complete. In particular, care must be taken of children's protection, the elderly and the disabled. These are the things people wish for, and these must be answered by means of social reform. However, in the government's social welfare reform, people have been forgotten and replaced by caring for the benefits of private health giants. The incorporation proposed by the Board of Directors splits up the working entities. A mixed number of companies are born, and a person sails between payment notes, customer bills, budgets and direct choices. "Mollioncomplicated because it leads to a massive number of contracts between different This is the verbatim statement of the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u20	Let us now turn to the round of
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u21	Madam President! During our independence, the health and well-being of Finns have greatly improved. We have created a good maternity clinic system, central hospitals and health centres as well as versatile social services. The system is still good internationally. As a rule, patients and customers appreciate it. At the same time, it must be recognised that problems have increased, particularly in basic services, access to doctors and care for the elderly. There are a number of reasons for this: the growing aspirations of citizens, the increased opportunities for medicine, the ageing of the population and the changing focus on funding. There is also a problem of inequality in access to and use of services. In recent years, different healthcare reforms have been prepared both in Finland and elsewhere. Previous attempts have fallen into constitutional problems and public confusion has grown. People are generally interested in services and not in the underlying administrative structures. Sipilä’s government set out to build new social services on the ground. The regions constitute a natural area for the organisation of services, particularly in view of the main issue of reform, that is, the basic services people need in everyday life. Instead of existing multi-channel funding, regions can use their own decisions to secure adequate funding and provision of basic services close to people and to their wishes. It is great to see that, unlike previous positions, there seems to be a considerable consensus in Parliament now on the regional base chosen by the government. The debate has therefore moved on to the complex and extensive details of the reform. But as Nobel Prize winner Holmström said about reform in this Chamber, 'I have to move on'. It would be political propaganda to say that the concerns expressed on the interplay issue would be in vain. Officials and the government have worked hard to make the social and regional government a functional entity. The reform of the social security system and the related freedom of choice must meet the constitutional conditions and the objectives originally set for the reform and be feasible. The criticism is directed in particular towards the freedom of choice model and private service providers. Two indisputable advantages must be borne in mind: the inclusion of private services increases customer choice and significantly increases capacity for basic services. Many municipalities would not currently be able to organise adequate services without partnership with organisations and businesses. The challenge is, of course, to ensure sufficient integration, but the province can secure integration through its own decisions and financial guidance, among other things. And the sooner we can build better information systems, including social services information systems, the more integration can be controlled. Citizens must receive services from one door combined with the necessary social and health services. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group] The question of reducing differences in health and well-being is at stake. It should be borne in mind that these differences arise mainly outside the service system and are issues of national health policy and the promotion of the well-being and health of municipalities. The aim of the Sote reform is to reduce differences in access to and use of services and to strengthen services for children and families in the fight against problems and exclusion. Personal customer plan and budget are important ways to improve the services of people using services. The regions will have very good opportunities to decide in more detail on the organisation and direction of services, such as the activities of private companies, the safeguarding of local services and linguistic rights. It is very important that regional specificities can be taken into account. Child health clinics are the crown jewel of our social welfare system. The decision of the Board of Directors, in which the provinces are allowed to decide on the organisation of maternity clinic activities, is a good one. This enables family centres, which are currently being prepared in many regions around the maternity clinic. The timetable for the introduction of freedom of choice would have been ambitious, but it is now being ensured that the situation in the provinces is taken into account in a step-by-step manner. At the same time, it has to be said that the preparation of the reform is quite advanced in many regions, such as the Siun sote in North Karelia. [Riitta Myller’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u22	Madam President! The Government will reform Finland after a long period of stagnation. The results are visible: the economy and employment are improving and confidence has been restored. The most important long-term reform is the county war. Ten years of trying to reform the war. Last season, under the leadership of the SDP, a municipal project collided with the Constitution. Learned From It The Sipilä government is building a reform on the basis of 18 provinces. There will be broad shoulders and a strong counterpart to large companies already active in the market. We all know that the project is big and difficult, but the result of the negotiations has been obtained, and that is the most important thing. Mr President! The opposition is intimidated by corporateization. It forgets that the province has an obligation to join only when the province performs tasks in a competitive situation on the market or when the services are subject to the customer's freedom of choice. [SusannaRoom call] For the customer, the most important thing is quality services, not what sign is on the doorpost of the social service station. What is also important is that customer fees are reasonable. The Constitution requires that the payment be without prejudice to access to any social security service. Public spending on social services amounts to almost EUR 20 billion per year. In recent years, growth has been around 2.4 per cent. It is necessary to cut growth, but there will be one-off costs during the transition period. When the regions implement the integration of service chains, data management and financing are mainly on a capitation basis, expenditure growth will slow down. When digital mobile services are introduced and implemented as "operable at home for as long as possible", costs will continue to fall. Reasonable use of expensive facilities and equipment and excellent professional staff will reduce costs. The reform of procurement and ict services will generate savings. Nearly 200 of the organisers will be transferred to 18 provincial organisers. A huge number of administrators will be shut down and bureaucrats who serve them will be transferred to more rational tasks. Responsibility will become clearer and cost growth will slow down.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u27	Mr President! I met a nurse I know. He told me he'd been waiting for weeks at the health centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u38	Mr President! The reform of social and health services is important. We are in favour of reducing welfare and health inequalities, ensuring equal services and curbing costs. To begin with, a few quotes: "The possibility for the service provider of direct choice to provide additional services to the customer for a different fee may lead to an increase in inequality." And as a follow-up: "This can open a new path to inequality and lead to the customer's ability to pay may become a more important principle of access to the service than the need." And add: "In addition to the differences between regions, the regional inequality of the population within the provinces is evident because private service provision is expected to arise, especially in regional centres and their sub-regions." Regarding the existing care chains: "The implementation of integration is challenging in the multi-producer model because service production is not directly controlled by the province." Does that ring a bell? These quotes are not intimidation by the opposition but direct quotes from the government's own bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u45	Mr President! When I was 15 years old, I woke up on the night after the exercise, and I had a lot of chest pain. I woke up my parents. After a while, I was at the health center, at the central hospital in the morning. Rapid access to treatment, effective emergency services, and good treatment and rehabilitation enabled me to recover from pericarditis. When I have discussed myself with people who have become even more seriously ill, one thing connects: gratitude to the tax-paid health system and its workers. You understand the value of a system when you have to resort to it. Each person must receive timely treatment without queues, regardless of the size of the wallet and the postal code. Services must be organised and funded in the same way. Information must be made to move with each customer visit. That is why social reform is needed, but not at all costs. The implementation of the reform as proposed by the government is as big a problem as the collapse of the reform once again. Mr President! The Greens commit themselves to implementing the social welfare reform once the Government commits itself to implementing the original objectives of the reform. All parties are committed to reducing health and welfare inequalities, curbing cost growth and securing seamless care chains. Marketisation of social services threatens all these objectives. This is not a intimidation of the opposition. This is the central message of the government's own impact assessment, which has also been highlighted by the leading professors of social and health policy. This is not populism, this is Nobelism — as we heard last week in this Chamber. Instead, it is populism to keep quiet all the criticisms of experts and to make pure ideological claims. The problem is not freedom of choice in itself. It acts as a good coach and a complement to the public sector. However, the Rengi is being turned into a host by taking the market model to extremes and making it a one-off rush. It does not solve problems, it breaks down functioning structures and creates new problems. Mr President! The crisis in social security funding always turns into a crisis in social services. People with low incomes and people living in remoteness are the most affected. Some large companies are able to choose people who do not incur costs but who receive compensation through marketing, placement and the use of occupational health care customers. A small and local care company will not benefit from this presentation; it will be eaten. There is a distorted incentive for the economy and public health: healthy people are over-treated and sick people are under-treated. Of course, attention should be paid to the effectiveness of treatment. However, incentives guide companies to select customers and send those who need a lot of services to the province. The Greens cannot accept the government's proposal — not now, not even after the transitional period. The show has to change. The green option guarantees the original objectives of the reform. First we need to guarantee seamless care chains, then we need to combine the funding of services. The regions must be given the right to tax. Finally, the customer's freedom of choice will be promoted and the market will be diversified without any claims for compulsory company involvement. Everyone shares the original objectives of the reform. Why is reform not done together, with the power of the whole Parliament? Mr President! It is not a question of which politician or which party has said or done what at different times. This is an elderly person who needs services to bring home because the nearest health centre is many ten kilometres away and public transport is not available. We're talking about a young man whose home is broken and school days go mainly to a nearby mall. This is a mother who needs help with her own survival and whose child is in an ear infection spiral. It is about caring for people as a whole, how the system best helps to reduce health inequalities, curb cost developments and ensure seamless care chains. Mr President! The reform must be made before public health and equality of people, not before the market. That is why the Group of the Greens supports the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u46	Mr President! The initial starting point for the reform of social welfare and health care was to correct what does not work but does not break what works. The problem with Finnish healthcare is not a lack of competition or alternatives, but a lack of equality. In a comparison of 35 European countries published at the beginning of the year, the Finnish health care system was found to be the most cost-effective in Europe. In quality comparisons, the investment was the eighth, i.e. Finland beat the countries that had been renovated in the commercialisation of services, such as Sweden and Great Britain. In Finland, health care expenditure accounts for the lowest share of GDP in the Nordic countries. The main disadvantage of Finnish social welfare and health care is the inequality of treatment and, in particular, the difficulty of access to care for low-income people. Basic services suffer from a persistent shortage of resources, which is reflected in the long queues of health centres and high customer fees. The organisation of social welfare and health care currently costs about EUR 3500 per person, of which only about EUR 130 goes to the open health care of health centres. Health centre visits in Finland have decreased considerably since the beginning of the 21st century, while social welfare and health care customer fees have been raised to the highest in the Nordic countries. These problems had to be resolved in the reform by transferring responsibility for the whole of social and health care to one body. This has already been successfully done, for example, in Kainuu and Eksote. When responsibility for both social services and health care lies with one body, cooperation models can be created that take into account the diverse needs of patients. Instead of bouncing from one line to another, services for families with children, the long-term unemployed and the elderly can be built. At the same time, resources can be transferred from heavier specialised care to basic level, social work and health centre receptions, thus shortening queues. The abolition of the central health charge would increase equality and at the same time reduce red tape. Mr President! The Sote reform had to correct what was broken: create integrated service chains, stronger public services and improve regional equality. With the government model, we will not achieve any of these objectives. Obligation and outsourcing is a violation of service chains. The responsibility for organising the region is not sufficient to establish cooperation when the persons responsible for the care chain work in private social services centres, the subcontractor companies of the social services centres, the county company and the business establishment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u49	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! At this point in time, it is worth recalling the objective of the whole social welfare reform: improving access to care, reducing health inequalities and reducing costs. In the government model, the administration has played a far too big role. The Swedish Parliamentary Group suspects that the solution to our problems would be a new level of government. The focus is now on the giant administrative apparatus, but not on what should be the clear objective of the reform: easier access to doctors and other treatments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u50	Mr President! A broad common view is therefore that the objectives of the social welfare reform are first and foremost smooth service chains through the integration of primary health care, specialised medical care and social services, and the shift to basic and lighter services, second, equality between citizens in access to services and thirdly, savings of EUR 3 billion on cost growth by 2029. On the basis of these objectives, the whole opposition has expressed its will to commit itself to a social reform. However, the government has not involved the opposition in the preparation. Instead, the government is pushing for a reform that would revolutionise Finnish social welfare and health care thoroughly, but does not contain sufficient means to achieve the goals set. Mr President! Our great concern about the government's social welfare policies is about abandoning the goal of integration. The overall responsibility for social services is still not covered by the same roof. The government’s model of forced companying shattered service chains, and at the same time the costs may get out of hand. In particular, chopping-up treatment chains weaken the situation of citizens who need a lot of services and also bring additional costs when the customer is still bounced from the hatch to the hatch, now only between a private and a public service provider, and at worst the customer falls between the hatches. There is a need for more human resources, doctors and nurses; the services must be timely. Resources must also be transferred to basic services that strengthen well-being and prevent them. This would increase the well-being of citizens and also bring the savings that have been sought. Mr President! The big question is the functioning of information systems. If the information systems are not in order at the start of the reform, the reform cannot take place. The situation can even be life-threatening for people who need a lot of services. Patient and customer information must be transported seamlessly and safely. The need for compatible information systems has been known for several years. Time has been wasted and money has been burned. It is probably the problems of information systems that prevent the reform from progressing on its timetable. Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliament is in favour of freedom of choice for citizens and is in favour of its gradual expansion in social and health services. However, significant changes are needed to the model of freedom of choice in order to really increase the freedom of choice of citizens rather than to reduce it in the future. The Government's current policy on the implementation of freedom of choice would give too much scope for regional private and large international mergers and thus threaten the real freedom of choice of citizens. From the citizen's point of view, a truly wider choice would be guaranteed by a model that the government calls narrow freedom of choice. In order for citizens' freedom of choice to become a reality, including smaller service providers, small businesses, organisations and foundations, it must be possible to continue their activities after the reform. At the moment, it is precisely the small operators who are in a very precarious position to be able to operate on the basis of the reform. In order for the Christian Democrats to be able to support the government's social model, this must also be corrected. Mr President! The freedom of choice model is the weakest link in social welfare reform. It is to be welcomed that the drafters have already been informed of the readiness to modify the proposal in a direction that strengthens equality and improves its functionality. The KD-Parliament Group requires the government to place the customer, i.e. the citizen, and the main objectives, at the centre of the reform, not only equal opportunities but also integration and the savings that will be achieved. We are trying to take a constructive approach to social reform and to contribute to it, but our concern about the direction and timetable of the reform is very great. We recommend critical reassessment and progressive, better-managed social welfare reform. The KD delegation therefore agrees with the motion of censure put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u51	Before the debate, I would like to speak to Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Rehula. First Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u52	Mr President! The whole of the social and regional reform is the largest single reform in the history of Finland. Governments, ministers, parliamentarians, other factors come and go, but the reform remains. That's why we're careful. That's why we're determined. There have been several stages of the war, as we all know in this Chamber. The reform started because, in the long term, the cost of social services was running away and the resources of the municipalities would simply not have been enough. The main objectives of the reform will continue to be to reduce health inequalities and manage costs. The objective is that by 2030 the costs will be around EUR 3 billion lower than they would be without reform. We're holding on to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u55	Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u56	Madam President! First, a few words on the preparation of legislation. The hearing period ended on Tuesday last week. The claim was made here that the previous time, when the Government promised to hear the feedback of the opinion in respect of this regional and social law and the implementing laws, it was not heard. On the basis of that feedback, significant changes were made, for example in relation to the status of municipalities: the tax ceiling was changed, the Act on the organisation of social welfare and health care no longer has a service institution — there is a business establishment — and one step was removed by staff transfers, such as transfers of businesses. The most important changes. Secondly, today’s work on the basis of this commentary has been described in the guidelines for which the articles continue to be written. These have all been linked to integration, access to services over the board, a financial solution and a particularly critical implementation schedule. They have been taken into account; they are matters that have come about on the basis of a statement of opinion. In what way and what's going to happen to this spot? The day will come when we have a referral debate in this Chamber. We have been preparing this for the consultation since the first opinion came to the ministry, starting to read the opinions and those who have worked on them, and today we are in a situation which has been mentioned in the debate on the interim question as to what can be said. Secondly, the arguments that the main objectives of this change have been forgotten, in a situation where basic services are falling apart, in a situation where equality exists in relation to social services in this country at a level that must be able to change, in terms of inequality, equality in access to services. The Board of Directors is responsible for equality, access to services: First of all, the fragmented management system changes with regard to organisation, so that the current less than 200 players become 18. That is a fundamental change. Similarly, it is often the case that the person with the money also has power. In this model, the province has money and, as provided for in the law, criteria are being laid down for service providers, and the province will also have power over the way in which service providers receive the money. The basic decline, just as the opposition has said in several speeches, is the problem. It will be answered, not from the point of view of the administration, but from the point of view of the person, and the freedom of choice legislation will enable those queues not to lengthen, but to shorten, and a situation will be created where the person who needs the services has no threshold for access to the services. We are creating a model where there is no porter outside the door. Or when the SDP claims here with absolute certainty that customer charges, for example, are rising: they are not going anywhere as a result of this change, nothing at all. Then the central issue, which has been the whole of this social war that has been going on for over a decade, is service integration. Service integration, i.e. caring for people when specific, basic services are needed: these services are used, used geographically in different localities. The means that exist are written in the law. If the text of the law, the articles, is believed, then integration is being carried out up to financial solutions, that is, if the text of the law is believed — then it is different if you do not believe it. Ict is central to the success of this whole change. Knowledge must go through both man’s own knowledge, the usefulness of his own knowledge, and those responsible for the service system. In order to support their design, we need to have access to information. Mr President! You can flirt with it with the fact that 'change, yes, but not like this'. The statements by both the RKP and the Social Democrats made fundamental changes, on the one hand, from the much-discussed common objectives, from the achievement of social integration, and, on the other hand, from the idea of going into the municipal model. You might want to read the opinions of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee from February to March 2015, and you will get a pretty valid answer about the existence of a municipality-based model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u57	Let's start the debate. I would ask those who wish to participate to sign up by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u58	Madam President! This is the social reform of the century, and yet it is incomplete. Minister Rehula, I didn't flirt when I spoke. I explained what the experts have said in their thousands of statements and we asked you, the government, to respond to these concerns. We still did not get those answers, and it really does seem that the political agreement reached by the government prevents us from finding solutions to these issues. It really seems that this is a government card house that they want to keep up under municipal elections. Could you tell us how you will answer these questions we asked you? We didn't get any proper resistance to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u59	Madam President! In this debate, I have been disturbed by the fact that Mr Haatainen and others have quoted a very large number of statements which have been made very unilaterally with regard to the concerns that have been expressed. A lot of positive points have also been raised in a number of opinions, and this mere mention of concerns must confuse the audience.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u62	Madam Speaker! The debate showed that there is consensus on the need for reform, indeed the necessity, but that is where it ends. I would have expected clear alternatives from the opposition to this model, which is the basis for the debate. You five opposition parties had a majority in the government last season. You didn't bring about any reform. For Finns, it is an extremely important tax issue, the fact that companies pay their taxes to Finland. Last season, even though you had the Minister of Finance, you did not intervene in this matter, and that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u65	Mr President! When there's a nodules in the chest, we need to get to the treatment quickly. The unfortunate fact is that the queues are unequal. Why do you in the opposition reject the government's option when you have no new means of securing better basic services? You have no choice. You do not even know whether you want the articles quickly or the careful preparation. I'm really wondering about that. I was looking at your social media options. There you are in favour of the current competition. But you know what problems it has had for people with mental disabilities, for example. Why are you not in favour of freedom of choice? If a person chooses, then neither the Procurement Directive nor the Competition Directive apply, but then the person can choose. Why can't you do this? People with mental disabilities, for example, have waited a long time for personal budgeting to prevent them from being thrown in here. You've forgotten about the human being and that's where the whole core of the social welfare reform is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u66	Mr President! It is quite clear here that the political agreement that was reached at the time when this was the province and then these private companies had further confusion when listening to last week. Suddenly there was some sort of immigration policy, then there were big cities, then there were all cities, and then the Prime Minister said that there were new guidelines this week after these comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u69	Mr President! The Greens believe that social reform is needed: narrowing health and well-being gaps between people and regions, curbing cost growth and ensuring seamless care chains. Marketisation of social services threatens all these objectives, and this is no intimidation of the opposition. This is the key message of the government's own impact assessment and experts in the field. The green option ensures the quality and availability of services. First, seamless care chains are guaranteed, then combined with the financing of services, the right to tax is given to the provinces, finally, the freedom of choice of the customer is promoted and the market is diversified without coercion. It is about caring for people as a whole, about the health of all of us. Implementation of the social welfare reform public health and equality of people, not the market, above. What does Minister Rehula think of this option for the Greens?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u70	Mr President! I find it a little confusing that here on the right side of the Chamber and the ministerial box are accused of intimidation the opposition and painting black boogeymans when experts say exactly the same thing. The former Director General of the Social Insurance Institution says that inequality is likely to increase, and Professor Hiilamo notes that the risks of freedom of choice outweigh the benefits. But, Prime Minister, in reference to what you have just said, I would have asked: if corporateisation and freedom of choice are such a great thing, why would you, as a potential future provincial decision-maker, recommend that maternity clinics be regarded as provincial businesses?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u73	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Now, in this reform, we should listen to these experts. I myself have been browsing through these statements, and I have a statement from the Supreme Administrative Court in my hand. Among other things, it states: "The emphasis is on the multi-producer model of services rather than on how customers' services and rights are safeguarded in the multi-producer model." This goes on to say: "It is also unclear how, in practice, the responsibility for the services of a customer using services at the same time would be shared between the provincial business and the direct choice of service providers. An unclear allocation of responsibilities can increase costs and pose challenges for the implementation of seamless customer service chains and packages." And also, "The model is also complex because it leads to a massive number of agreements between different actors." And then it is said that "the number of legal disputes will increase..." So how do you government respond to these, and how do you intend to ensure that small companies will also be able to contribute to the production of these services in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u74	Mr President! The citizen, the patient, needs to get the client to a fair level of focus. The operations must be customer-oriented, taking into account the adequacy of the personnel and the possibilities for operations. Information technology must be made to function seamlessly so that staff can concentrate on listening to and treating patients rather than information technology. There has to be enough time. Humane action is needed to give the weaker and the older people the help they need. My question is this: has the government taken sufficient account of older people and their needs in social and health care when planning changes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u75	Madam President! The opposition here is accusing the government of creating uncertainty. The fact is that the opposition is the only source of uncertainty, and the reason is clear: the reform of the social economy has been very clever in harnessing it as an election weapon. In particular, the SDP repeats the opinion of the draft Act on Freedom of Choice, which has already announced here today that it will make the necessary corrections. In fact, the majority of the experts consulted in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for example, have said that social welfare reform is necessary, at last implement it. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u76	Mr President! It should be noted that this criticism, which emerges from the opposition, is the criticism of experts. It is not a particularly inventive criticism, but it is precisely the criticism of the experts. [Department : Should have supported the reply! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u77	Mr President! The Euro Health Consumer Index 2016 published a few months ago gives an interesting picture of the state of Finnish health services, because according to the comparison, the price-quality ratio of Finnish health care is the best in Europe — the best in Europe. Of course, there is room for improvement: according to the same report, Finns are not able to compare the quality or effectiveness of the treatment they receive, unlike, for example, Norway, the Netherlands, Germany and Switzerland. My question is: how are we supposed to choose our services freely if we do not have comparable data, where do we base our choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u79	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for this excellent proposal, for the fact that the structures of health care and social work in Finland are now being put on a sustainable footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u82	Madam President! Social reform is indeed needed, but not just any social reform. And now, unfortunately, this political trade in beef and veal from the war is not going to meet the objectives which, in the last period, have brought together all the parliamentary parties, such as narrowing the gap between welfare and health. Instead, in this debate, the government has focused on accusing the opposition of intimidation, even though the serious concerns we have raised come from experts. So do you think that the experts, a good government — and I would appreciate that the ministers, the President, also listen when we speak — are wrong in these criticisms? And these cosmetic changes, which you have just said you are making to the timetable here, do not alter the flaws in the structure of the infrastructure, which the experts have specifically expressed their concerns about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u83	Madam President! The government must be congratulated. This reform will improve access to services for people who are currently disadvantaged, i.e. people who cannot afford private health services or effective occupational health care. 19,000 people have been waiting in line for more than three weeks for access to the health centre, that is far too much for us, and that is why this reform is being carried out. The ideological blocking of the left is jeopardising the improvement of services and the realisation of equality. The main objective of the opposition seems to be to overturn this reform. That is a completely irresponsible speech that has been heard. The goal for the assembly and the government is not freedom of choice. It is a way to provide people with better access to care, better quality and equal services. Freedom of choice is therefore a means, not an objective. It is a good thing that we are now making progress, that freedom of choice is being achieved and that people are getting better access to better quality care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u84	Madam President! Last season, all eight parliamentary parties worked together on this social solution, and only one of them promoted this freedom of choice, which Mr Jokisen has just praised, and the other seven did not support it. Now, however, the government has taken this one party's freedom of choice as its starting point. And when you follow the money, you can see who benefits from this: when the freedom of choice model was announced, the stock exchange prices of private health companies went up and the co-operatives went to private health companies to work. This freedom of choice is coercive and forced outsourcing. I quote from an expert: "Externalisation should be very reserved. It may seem an easy solution to buy services from big companies, but functionally and economically it is a bad system over a long period of time." What expert has said that? This statement was issued by Pekka Puska, then Director General of the THL.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u85	Mr President! With regard to freedom of choice, it would be time to discuss not only the producers but also the strong province, the 18 service providers and their very responsible role, so that the doctor can get there, so that the social work meets the customer and the services are equal. It is the deepest core of this model. In this regard, I very much appreciate the fact that the government has decided, in the case of maternity and child health clinics, to support precisely that province's own autonomous strength and evaluation in the interests of its own province, how the services should be organised. I also appreciate the Prime Minister's own wish and guidance that services should be integrated into the regional business community, because the government has spent a great deal of resources to create a strong set of services for children and families around the core of the maternity clinic in Finland. The best way to achieve this is now that work is only in its early stages, within the framework of a strong organiser, where this involves, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u86	Mr President! The risk now lies in the fact that the government in itself spoils a good thing, that is, freedom of choice, by rushing and bringing here a savage who will then fail and prove the judgment of the critics to be correct. This is the risk. I read this summary of expert opinions and it is devastating to read. Criticism comes through the line, especially the timetable, and it also seems to concern the project manager Thomas Pöyst, even the Ministry of Finance. It has been a long time since the Minister of Finance has also become a flirt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u89	Madam President! Regional equality has been one of the most important objectives of this social welfare reform. It is clear that the conditions for freedom of choice in central cities are quite different from those in sparsely populated and remote areas. Similarly, the 1,6 million inhabitants of Uusimaa will certainly attract in a different way than, say, over 70,000 inhabitants of Kainuu. Unfortunately, this government model seems to bring more of these unequal factors from a regional point of view. Here, in the government's own proposal, it is said that the regional inequality of the population within the provinces is evident. This could be described in such a way that today, to the non-rasy grandmother who goes to the private health centre to pick up her services and pay some of them herself and receive Kela benefits, in the future all of us taxpayers will pay for her private good health services, but the grandmother in Kainuu who does not receive decent services today will not receive them in the future. In what way are you responsible for ensuring that regional inequality does not just increase with this government model?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u90	Mr President! For me and certainly for many viewers, there is a feeling that "my day as a marmot", i.e. that I have heard this conversation once before. In fact, Mr President, when the government reached this political agreement, in which these provinces and the assembly were given this market model, we expressed our concern that this political agreement might be an obstacle to achieving the original objectives of this reform, that is to say, to getting the right care at the right time and at the right place. Well, now that the hearings have been seen, the experts have said that the concern that we expressed then a year and a half ago has come true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u92	Mr President! It sounds a bit like the opposition has not heard or wanted to listen to what Mr Rehula has said about what has been done here. There has been a round of opinions, criticism has been heard, substantial changes have been made to the draft which was previously on the table, starting with the phasing-in, and this current model, which is now, or should be, in the debate, is incomparably better than the one on which the criticism was given. It seems to me that you, Mr Lindtman, have an old record on top. Check the record, Congressman Lindtman. Mr President! This has now been done, whether it is three or four governments or five governments already. Quite a number of governments have said that there is a need to do something, someone such as this kind of reform is needed. I think this is the first government that can do something.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u93	Mr President! I am not sure whether the chairman of the central parliamentary group, Mr Kaikkonen, did not read the group statement of his own parliamentary group. It also stated that the very concerns we bring about by the experts are quite right. The problem here is that when you stick to this political agreement, this will destroy the opportunity to make a good social welfare reform for all. The Coalition Party has announced that we must become a market model and if we do not, we will not be able to get through this larger band of shoulders at all – this is good to know now. This will prevent you from making changes other than six months there or six months here. In four days, there were great expectations. The Prime Minister also promised that the key changes would now be made, to respond to the concerns of the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u96	Mr President! I remember from the last parliamentary term when the cover of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities included the then Social Democratic Minister for basic services and the title was 'I have solved the social tie'. But it didn't seem to be solved then, and it still doesn't seem to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u99	Mr President! War reform is indeed a major reform and should therefore be done with care. No matter how much time has been spent on this, there is no point in rushing at the end of this period so that bad things are done. That is why these concerns expressed by experts in the opinions should be taken seriously. The fact that each party has, over the years, put its own agendas ahead of the organisation of human health and well-being services is a disgrace to our parties, but at this point we must build together a model that will last for the coming decades of 100 years in Finland. And this is not the model, for here we are splitting these chains so small that the whole is not under anyone's control and the cost threatens to run even higher. Now we must return to the tables together to complete this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u100	Mr President! Social reform is indeed needed, but this government's social model is irresponsible. We have presented our own realistic model of social services and we will also make it available to you. The government model threatens to raise the costs of the system, to break up service chains and to increase regional inequalities. In its opinion, the Kainuu regional reform states that freedom of choice can lead to dispersal of social welfare and health services chains, resulting in higher costs and reduced services. That's pretty clear, isn't it? The government seems to have forgotten the person and his service chain when it comes to the privatisation and incorporation of services, but the government also seems to have forgotten the cost-effectiveness of the services. I would like to ask: how will cost savings be achieved with this model, if not by cutting down on services and increasing customer charges, when almost all the commentators have said that this is for the privatisation and incorporation of the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u101	Madam President! I have received three text messages from experts who compliment the government on the fact that your agreement is a good one,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u104	Mr President! This compulsory incorporation and, as it were, the more beautiful word 'free choice' attached to it would be honest in this Chamber. In principle, this term "free choice" sounds fantastic, but when we look at what lies behind it, it is not so fantastic, at least from the perspective of ordinary Finns. I didn’t want to believe it at first either, but last Friday the exit of the Finnish Financial Association was startling. Direct quote: "We also strongly support the idea that customers can buy social and health care services with their own funding if necessary. The funding secured by insurance, as well as own funding, is an important part of the customer's freedom of choice." Now I would like to ask directly to whom is this reform being carried out: for insurance sellers or for ordinary Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u105	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! A lot has been said about important maternity clinic services here, and perhaps Finland's best preventive service, the maternity clinic activity, must not be driven down. Regular visits to a familiar nurse bring security to young families, and this cannot be overemphasized. The follow-up of children's health and development in health clinics continues as an uninterrupted process in school pupils and health care, and these services are mutually dependent. School health care is falling outside the scope of freedom of choice, and this should also be done with regard to maternity clinics. Now children and young people are threatening to fall between systems if care chains and services are run or distributed to different actors. Do you agree with what has been said here, Mr Government, that maternity clinics do not fall within the scope of freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u106	Mr President! The most important thing is that a person gets help from his trouble — I say ‘person’, I do not use the word ‘patient’ or at least ‘customer’ — that a person gets help from his trouble and that he can then continue to choose from whom he asks for help, more than he can choose from now, from where he can apply for help. Congressman Puska said, "Stiffing or action"? Of course he told me to get on with it. But I will say it even more strongly: if this goes a long way now, it will become a malignant stomach bill, which will suffer the credibility of the entire political system for a long time. After 10 to 15 years of massage, it must now be brought to an end, because there is also enough to be corrected by future governments. The message of this Parliament would now be important to the provinces: go ahead with courage, use your own senses, take responsibility in the provinces for completing the social work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u107	Madam President! Minister Ruhula, you just gave me the impression that Eksote could continue as it was. However, this is not the case. According to various experts, Eksote has to be dismantled and it has to be broken down into different companies and businesses. Do you think these experts are wrong because you're shaking your head? At present, Eksote is a good example for many regions of the good work that would be hoped to move forward. Eksote organises and produces all basic health care and social services, as well as specialised medical care, with around six hundred private service providers supporting Eksote’s activities. Madam President! I would now like to ask Minister Ruhula again — please state clearly whether it is necessary to: Exoten dismantles its own system and incorporates it into businesses and different companies, or can it
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u108	Madam President! The question has been asked of whom this reform is being carried out. This reform is being carried out for man. Then we've been asked to make different models and slow down here. Do you want a person to wait? Do you not think that a person is in a hurry to be treated if necessary? I think too long today you have to wait to see a doctor. I think it is very important that patient safety is taken care of, and that we get this model, the social reform, to the finish line, will certainly increase it. Various producers and operators have been raised here. We already have a share of improved service housing, which is close to 60%, produced with the help of a private service provider. We have foundations, we have associations — you forget all about them. They have social responsibility, and they do not do business, but develop their activities, and they have a responsible way of dealing with older people, among other things. I think it is very important that we maintain jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u109	And also the representatives of Järvinen and Nurminen, and then the speeches to the ministers of Orpo and Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u110	Madam President! It is quite clear that each of us wants a Finnish person to be able to quickly access services in the future. This is hoped for by a person with mental health problems who needs help, and also by the problem user of drugs who needs rehabilitation. These organisations are largely responsible for the activities, work, assistance, which are now becoming impossible due to the fact that the government continues on the road to strong incorporation. This same problem threatens to escalate in the context of regional reform, as employment services are also incorporated and a large proportion of the activities of the hard-to-work long-term unemployed are assumed by various organisations whose activities are becoming impossible. That is why I ask: how are you going to secure the activities of these mental health workers and those with substance abuse problems, on the one hand, and the associations providing assistance to them, on the other?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u111	Mr President! I would also like to point out the role of staff, because you are about to launch negotiations on more than 200,000 mainly low-wage and female-dominated workers. We have a number of examples of situations where employees' wages and benefits have been reduced since privatisation. Just last week we were able to read about the fact that the big care company decided to change the appointments of such nurses, which meant that the responsibilities and duties were maintained but the salary fell by several hundred euros a month. This phenomenon will grow through incorporation. According to experts, the number of atypical employment relationships will also increase, including zero-hour contracts in the care sector. How, Minister, will you ensure in a few years' time, after the end of the contract, that the salaries and benefits of the staff are maintained? This is an important issue for hundreds of thousands of municipal workers and their families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u112	Then Minister Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u113	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that this millennium reform is progressing. This is absolutely necessary for two reasons. First of all, today's social and health services do not work everywhere in Finland. Equality in access to services is certainly not being achieved in today's Finland. That is what all parties in this Chamber have agreed on over the last few years. The second reason is that, in the coming years and decades, when we have a significant increase in demand for social and health services due to our age structure, we are also forced to reform this to be more efficient and productive and better in order to make our money sufficient. One of the objectives of the reform is to reduce the cost of 3 billion by 2029, which we will and have taken care of as this reform progresses. Today, the government has adopted guidelines on how to build the articles of this last open section of the Act on Freedom of Choice. This work is done with care. We have looked very closely at these statements, including the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. We have listened to the experts, we have listened to the public debate, we have listened to this good debate here, which, in my opinion, is part of the parliamentary dimension, and on that basis we have sought a solution in which freedom of choice takes place. The basic solution is therefore that on 1 January 2019 the Freedom of Choice Act will enter into force in all provinces. It is then that service vouchers, personal budgeting, freedom of choice in oral health care are launched. But since we know that we need time to prepare for this, we will, as pilots, give the regions that want to start off six months earlier, if and when they are ready — and we know that these regions exist — and, on the other hand, the regions which, for example, because of the ict, which has been raised by experts, will face challenges, by 1 July 2019 at the latest, will also be able to move with this centre. This social centre is the one that gets either an update or a follow-up, but freedom of choice itself and legislation comes on 1 January 2019. In my opinion, this has genuinely taken into account experts. We have genuinely heard the concerns associated with this. We have genuinely wondered that this will result in its smooth access to treatment, that a person who needs a doctor’s service should be able to get there smoothly. Today it takes 28 days on average in Finland to wait without an urgent medical visit, and it cannot continue. Through freedom of choice, we take out the queues for doctors. A smooth access to treatment ensures that we also save a great deal of expense, because a person gets the treatment he needs right away and not in 28 days’ time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u114	Minister Ruhula, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u115	Madam President! The opposition raised 11 questions in its interim question. In the government’s answer, those questions were asked one question after another, answering them. It is then a different matter if, for example, in relation to the whole of incorporation, where, as a result of this model, the incorporation is the way in which service production is carried out within the scope of freedom of choice services, this answer is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u118	And Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u119	Madam President! All the questions have been answered, and there have also been guidelines on the main content of the feedback, which will enable the sections to be finalised. Firstly, on this feedback and on the fact that we still do not have the objective of strengthening the basic level: That is why this freedom of choice is implemented at a basic level. There is a genuine freedom of choice for people regardless of the size of their wallet, to choose either a public or a private operator. It will also certainly shorten the queues for access to the doctor. The feedback on the opinion has been taken into account in the implementation. Then these alleged claims of cream peeling. There will be clear clarifications to the paragraphs. The financial criteria have been changed. To pay the tax. As I said, social responsibility and the transparency and transparency of tax payments become a provision of the law which obliges companies operating in this sector to have much greater transparency than is required by the law on limited liability companies. There will be corrections to constitutional issues, such as equality. On this implementation: First of all, the law and freedom of choice will enter into force on 1 January 2019. It comes with a customer voucher, a personal budget, and oral health care everywhere goes to freedom of choice. The Sote Centres can start from the beginning of July 2018. It is prepared in several regions and supported by pilot funding. The Sote Centres must be operational by July 2019 at the latest. It also gives this ict more time to prepare, which was one of the comments in the opinion. And for special reasons, you can apply for more time. On the basis of these guidelines, I would now urge all the provinces to make bold progress along these lines and to be ready, even as a pilot province, in such a way that the following, later on, can then learn from the experience that comes as a result of these pilots. These registrations will start to be received, and I hope that a proper debate will now take place in the provinces as to whether, in just over a year's time, there will be a readiness in your region to pilot freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u121	Let us return to the ministers' speeches a little later, and now let us continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u122	Madam President! This cosmetic change of timetable does not eliminate the fact that the government is thus setting up provinces, which is the will state of the centre, in accordance with this political agreement, and then setting up our public health centre services and putting them on the market coldly to compete with private companies and international health giants. This is the fundamental problem with this whole solution, and this is in fact the political lock that prevents you, Prime Minister, from telling us — perhaps you would like to tell us when you wish — that there will be no competition in the market in private companies. You wanted them to stay in the provinces, but now you say it's up to the county. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u123	Mr President! Of course, the focus of the Sote reform is on the patient, the customer, but also the staff, more than 200,000 social workers. This reform, at its best, means that there will be a better and more sensible use of staff and that the health centres will hopefully no longer be affected by the shortage of doctors. The reform is also the largest single transfer of personnel from one employer to another in our country. When more than half of the employees in the municipal sector move to provincial groups, everyday life changes quite thoroughly in municipalities. Management of changes in municipalities and personnel change training must be taken care of. This is particularly true for women, who account for about 90% of the staff. Mr Rehula, what is to be done to ensure that staff remain involved and can also influence this change?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u125	Mr President! Strengthening primary health care, improving access to care and reducing health inequalities are important objectives. But almost all experts, with their crushing criticisms, have estimated that the government’s model will not lead to these. Similarly, the municipalities have issued very critical statements, including my own home town and the home city of Minister Soin, Espoo. I ask: why do you wipe the table with all these expert statements and municipal statements? A six-month delay in timetables is not a change, however, when you are aiming at forced companyisation and the marketisation of health services. Nobellist Bengt Holmström urged us to proceed through experiments, meaning that we could find our own models and strengths in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u128	Mr President! Freedom of choice belongs to everyone, and one aspect has been forgotten by the opposition: 10% of our citizens actually spend most of our social and health services. In fact, for them, their customer responsibility is in the province. There is a customer responsible person who makes a personal plan for these people with substance abuse and mental health problems and for the disabled. They are those who actually need integration. Integration does not take place between organisations. It's done as a customer-off phenomenon. Is this integration of customers, people, not good enough for the opposition?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u129	Madam President! At the beginning, I drew attention to the fact that Minister Ruhula mentioned that the provinces had power. The person who has the money also has power, and in practice this goes so far that the provinces do not have the right to tax at this early stage, but the money comes directly from the state. This development of one's own activities will then be incomplete when one does not have the opportunity to raise money and then the opportunity to think about how the income will come, but is always dependent on the government's framework. In this context, I ask: where is the real power of the provincial government and the opportunity to influence those activities, what will they take forward in the process of social reform? They depend on state funding all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u130	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about who has received what, and it has been said that the centre has received a regional model, the coalition has gained freedom of choice. In fact, the Finns of Peru have been pushing for both a provincial solution and the right choice since the last parliamentary term, and it can be said that the Finns of Peru have both received them. But that is not all, in addition to what our group speaker Kankaanniemi said here, the Finns of Peru also want strict tax legislation on this, that taxes will be paid to Finland in the future. Having whispered on this right side of me, on the left side of the President, that what these means are, it is this significant calculation of the turnover limits for country-specific reporting and the limitation of the right to deduct interest, these two examples, many other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u132	Mr President! I just said, "That's a good question." Should have been and should have been a long time ago. President! I do find this a confusing situation. Here, as has been said, there has been a political agreement: the centre has been given the provinces, the coalition has been given this market drug, and the Finns of Peru are allowed to remain in the government. That is what this is all about. This is very unfortunate in the sense that there is serious concern about this. I talk to people every day, and the last question that was asked was whether the government was upset now that the whole of Finland is being traded and put on the market. It's a serious matter. It's about people's health. And as has been said — I want to underline it, President, here, because it is so important — we base our concern on criticism from experts,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u133	Mr President! This reform is good, this reform is good for man. This reform is based precisely on the values of the Finns of Finland and on our ambitions to have 18 provinces instead of the former 200 organizers and a reasonable, human freedom of choice, which originates from the freedom of choice of the citizen, not from the freedom of choice of the company. The ordinary Finnish can choose, the ordinary Finnish deserves to choose, and the ordinary Finnish must be given the freedom to choose. We are destroying those privileges, as if the unequal situation, which we have after the socialist governments, that only the wealthy can afford to choose. From now on, everyone has a choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u134	Mr President! I would like to congratulate the government on finding a sustainable path in which social and health services can also be secured for citizens in the future. This has been prepared without results for up to three parliamentary terms. The opposition also says that we need social reform, but your answer is that we go back to square one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u136	Madam President! I am surprised at the speech that has just been made, which says that we want to go back to square one. Perhaps you have not been listening, but, as I have told you here, last season we had a joint project between all the parliamentary parties in which we brought the government's proposal to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u139	Mr President! Freedom of choice is not the invention of the coalition. In fact, it is a workable everyday life in the rest of the Nordic countries and in Europe. It is quite obvious there that man is part of the treatment and services he receives. THL, National Institute for Health and Welfare, proposed freedom of choice in 2013. Why? Because they saw that it is the only way we can effectively strengthen basic services and overcome the unequal situation of people waiting in line for basic services. The opposition has had no new way of getting people out of line. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u140	Mr President! We welcome the fact that the government is staggering the entry into force of freedom of choice. The RKP has also proposed this on a number of occasions, so this is a very good start to this phase-out. But, Mr President, it would be good to have an answer to a few more questions. Firstly, how will the government ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises and the third sector are able to cope with this reform? How can you guarantee they won't suffer for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u141	Madam President! The most important thing is not that the province gets money and the power parties gain power, but that the patient gets treatment. The KD's parliamentary group is in favour of increasing freedom of choice, in particular by extending the service system, but these proposed policies on freedom of choice are the weakest link in the area of social welfare reform. I ask, as Mr Nylander did: will smaller companies, organisations, really remain in service production, or will the freedom of choice of the customer mean a bright future only for large health companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u142	Mr President! It seems to me from this debate that, as our group chairman, Mr Kaikkonen, said, the opposition has many of these 'yes' types of phrases, but 'yes', and a lot of old homages, which are certainly heard quite a few times in the eyes of the citizens. I agree with Mrs Kääriäinen that political credibility is very strongly tied to the promotion of this social welfare reform throughout our system. And as far as the content of this freedom of choice is concerned, when, for example, we highlight particularly vulnerable groups of the population or small and medium-sized enterprises, it is worth noting that the model of freedom of choice also includes a very important personal budget and customer voucher that will bring about a change, which is one of the manifestations of freedom of choice in this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u143	Mr President! Now we are talking about this personal budget, and at the same time we are talking about the payment voucher, the voucher, which makes this freedom of choice possible. Now it seems that this voucher is like this kind of squirrel skin, giving it there or here we get a different kind of treatment. I ask you now, Minister Ruhula: have you calculated what is the value of this voucher? How many of this kind of squirrel skin, voucher, is needed when choosing it as a private best possible doctor? It is a good thing that people are allowed to choose it, but what the price is, that is what we need to know, we do not know. We know at the moment that the capitulation, for example, is going to take about 250 million in the first year, but it does not bring back as much tax dollars or savings. How is it financed? In what way will this matter be brought to the finish line in such a way that it will benefit all of us? Now we are talking about money — where are we going to get that money?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u144	Mr President! A few words about health differences and queues: By 2029, the state will reduce regional income funding by EUR 3 billion. The regions must be able to cope with a declining financing situation in which costs increase. Since the regions do not have the right to tax, the funding gap will have to be bridged by increasing customer charges and limiting access to services. The risk is that the additional services of companies in particular will become the main products of those who will be able to pass the queues with their own extra money, i.e. the health gap will increase. As the contribution per knob is relatively small, the companies still need to regulate demand, so the queues do not disappear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u145	Mr President! I think it is excellent that the province's decision-making powers were increased in this regard. This determination of the fate of the health clinics there is the right and wise solution. On the other hand, this timetable that the regions with the ability and the desire to go out with freedom of choice can do so, and then there is a backseat that everyone has to come to it within a certain period of time, is a very wise and clever solution. Thank you for who made it. Mr President! The Social Democrats spoke about their regional model. They would like 18 regions in Finland, and in that model, however, municipalities would pay part of the fees. This was the one that knocked down the last exercise you led. Municipalities cannot pay if they have no decision-making power. Then there will be government coffers, Mr Nylander, and therefore quite a lot of decision-making in the use of funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u146	Madam President! Our model, which was therefore based on its 18 regions, would be tax law. It would be collected at the same time as a municipal tax, so that it would not emerge from the present entity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u150	Mr President! From the perspective of people's freedom of choice, it is of course important that these messages of the consultation have already been responded to during this consultation. For us in the regions where this social integration has already advanced considerably, it is of course important that these good practices do not need to be abandoned and that the deep integration that has been achieved can be supported by means of action and funding, as is now being done here. I think it is important for this exercise of freedom of choice to be flexible, i.e. to be phased in. I welcome the fact that some of the regions could join us as early as 18. For example: In Kainuu, we could join as one pilot before 1 January. In this respect, I also welcome the fact that, if I listened correctly to the Prime Minister's message, it will also be possible to obtain some kind of change support for these pilots.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u151	Mr President! Both experts and many commentators are against this model of government freedom of choice, and this criticism has not been adequately answered here today by the government. North Karelia, for example, has developed this Siu social policy, which has been mentioned here today, and very few of us in North Karelia think that the government's way forward in this freedom of choice legislation would be good. You don't want to coerce you, but you want to continue to develop your activities on your own model, and you can read this in almost all statements sent from North Karelia. Why on earth are the provinces not allowed to choose the right course of action for themselves? Why are we being forced into this coercion? And do you, Minister Rehula, really think that forced-on is not going to break up Siu's mess?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u152	Madam President! It must be said that it is terrifying to hear, for example, how chilly the attitude of the SDP towards Finns currently in line for treatment and research — the thousands of people who would benefit from freedom of choice and get treatment more quickly and get MRIs and so on. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u153	Madam President! Now we have to correct this information to Mr Kopra, that in Eksote, 620 different operators are acting alongside Eksote as a service provider, with less than 20 % — I think 18.6 % or what — of the service production budget being a purchasing service. But I'm sure this is the kind of thing that we're not supposed to start twisting about here. I would now like to ask Minister Ruhula: What is the future of non-governmental organisations? Are you driving the NGOs down in the social welfare reform? There are now different interpretations that if health care cooperates with an organisation, for example, and the aim is to support rehabilitation of the person undergoing rehabilitation, this legislation requires that the NGO should incorporate the form of cooperation it carries out with health care. As a result, if this happens, the organisations must not:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u154	Mr President! Indeed, Finnish non-governmental organisations play a very important role as factors of Finnish well-being. Associations provide social and health services as non-profit-making, domestic actors and, in addition to this service production, organisations have low-threshold activities that promote health and well-being for all in cooperation with municipalities and many other actors: volunteering, peer support, pilot and development activities of various kinds. However, this organisational assistance activity is located between voluntary activities and service production, and an important part of its funding has come from municipalities. But who will finance this third sector in the future when social and health services are transferred to the provinces? It doesn't really belong to the municipalities anymore, but does it belong to the provinces? Minister Ruhula, I would like you to answer: will public benefit associations now be left out of the playing field, and how will they be protected in the social welfare reform? They are extremely important for our Finnish welfare society. I'm sure you'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u155	Madam President! This debate has been the same as it was during the last parliamentary term when we made sharp criticisms to the government about social reform and many other issues. There's nothing new about this. It's just that the two sides have changed. It is just that the SDP has the starting point now that this has been misfired and it has been wrong to do so because you are not deciding this. This is the main reason you're against it. The average TV viewer doesn't understand or care about much about anything in this "society" crap.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u158	Mr President! Mr. Niikko, there is a clear difference. When the minister here, Mr Saarikko, referred earlier to the fact that there is a great deal of prestige attached to this social reform, that authority is now government authority, because in the previous period we did this together, but now the government parties have taken over this major reform. And it is necessary, President, to say that in the opposition we Social Democrats are in favour of social reform, we are in favour of wider shoulders in the organiser and we are also in favour of freedom of choice, but we have a few very heavy remarks. The first relates to the fact that, under the pretext of this social welfare reform, a whole new regional government must be built with all functions other than social and health services. It has clearly made it more difficult for the reform to proceed. Our second comment concerns freedom of choice. Why has the concern of experts not been taken seriously but taken forward by this reform? Would it not make sense now to prioritise services first, because it is the most essential thing here that ordinary people get treatment? But the government has lost its priorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u159	Mrs Kiuru and then Mr Mattila and Mr Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u160	Mr President! I welcome the fact that social and health care reform is being carried out, but not just any reform should be made. So the direction must not be that any reform is acceptable, and I find it extraordinary that movement is now the most important, i.e. ideological movement for you. Looking at a hundred, this reform is starting to look pretty bad. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I hope you will all see how this level of funding in your own province will go. The regions such as Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta, Pirkanmaa, Kymenlaakso, North Savo, Central Ostrobothnia, Kainuu and Lapland will have to think seriously about whether this amount of funding that the province will receive can handle these services. I am serious — seriously — asking you: is it fair that we are here to reform where some regions may lose so much money at an early stage compared to real costs — that saving objective, EUR 2.8 billion in the next decade, plus then these costs of setting up and all the other costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u161	Minister Mattila, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u162	Madam President! Yes, it is good that the opposition is involved in the debate and it is good that the opposition is involved in parliamentary work. With every possible debate, this issue must be taken forward. But let's talk about the whole truth. Mr Paatero, you raised this regional model of yours, which has tax law. I wonder why you did not do this last season when you had the opportunity, or did you not have the opportunity to do it? [Anneli Kiljunen’s interlude — Susanna Huovinen’s interlude] This model is much, much further away from what you were driving last season than, for example, what the Finns have presented as their own model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u163	Secretary Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u164	Mr President! I would also like to say a few words about this issue of staff: It is true that when more than 200,000 people in the social services sector are here to change employers, it is a really big deal, and we have to make sure that it happens in a controlled way there too in practice. But then I would like to remind you that here in the parliamentary committees there is already a law on enforcement, which states very precisely what happens, how this transition will take place, and that will be done on the basis of the principle of handing over the movement as old workers, and this will take place in two years, from the beginning of 2019 until the end of 2020. This seems to me to be a good and absolutely necessary point here, and indeed applies to every employment relationship, both those who are under the Employment Contracts Act and those who are under the Municipal Civil Service Act and those who are under the State Civil Service Act. And then also with regard to pension provision: these pension laws are already under discussion here, and so it is that these regional companies can also join the Keva member communities. And if companies choose a private employment pension insurance company, the company must safeguard supplementary pension benefits. In other words, it is important when we know that the municipal side also has these supplementary pensions, that these things are secured on top of the last. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, then I would also like to say a few words about these changes, which have mainly been made to this implementation: I note that it is not cosmetics, what we have done with them. It is very important that we create such an implementation of this freedom of choice law that it can take place in a controlled manner. Our provinces, 18 provinces, are different at this stage, different sizes, different levels of preparation, and the markets will also operate differently in these provinces. So there must be a controlled market opening, and then information management, information systems, customer data management, all of this, must be in order to take this forward. And that is why I think it is good that we are going in stages now, as we are speeding up, but let us also be flexible in time. So if we go through the pilots, we will already have tools on how to implement that freedom of choice. And then a province which does not have the opportunity to implement fundamental rights and which does not have the opportunity to open up this market sufficiently, that is to say, difficulties in implementing it, can also be given that extra time. Finally, I would like to say that, when it is said here on the part of the opposition that this is bad about it and for that reason, starting from the beginning, suddenly a joint parliamentary work is being created, which of you believes that we will now sit here at the same table and suddenly find that common note. If that is the way it is criticised, it is very much highlighted, it is not possible to achieve a common tune in this parliamentary term. Now we need to take legislation forward with determination and at the same time ensure that the regions have real opportunities to make that change in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u165	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a yes, I must say, a nice day to be saying that this is really going to move. When this was discussed before Christmas and the basic guidelines were obtained, much remained to be agreed. Then it was agreed that we should now send an opinion and get more information from it, and now we have listened to them. More than 600, as many as 700, and the eyes red have been read and watched and listened to. I am very proud, even as a person in the industry, that we have actually taken them into account now and have found an even better model than was agreed before Christmas. Changes have now been made to implementation, and I am proud that we are leaving in the front. Pilots can already start implementing these various tools of freedom of choice, even social centres and personal budgets. Then everything, the entire freedom of choice legislation, will enter into force in the whole country on 1 January 2019 and one tool, i.e. the social media centres by 1 July 2019 at the latest. But like I said, you can start before. Why are some being given this six-month transition? That is why we have come out of the mire that information systems are not going to move everywhere in time, and they wanted to listen to this, of course, and that is why there will be the possibility that 1.7. there will then be one tool in place. Everyone else will come earlier and even 2018. Then integration. Integration is an enormously important issue and must be taken care of. We will also strengthen the obligation for social centres to integrate, and this will also be taken into account in funding. Just as Minister Rehula said in his speech, the financial system changes precisely so that one cannot part-optimize, cannot postpone to the central hospital or to special services, but must take care of the whole. It's that integration. The reason why I am very pleased about the content is that it has been given feedback, that the content has not been clearly stated in Article 15 or whatever it is, but it is now, and now it has been made much better than the content of the statement, and one can say that the content is even wider, because it has been sought to bring it to the social side, because it has been a poor social side in that first version. It's that integration. SMEs will be taken into account, social responsibility, staff will be taken into account. And then leadership: change leaders are needed, we also need that Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we have talked about that too. Then there's the exception. If you are not able to implement all the tools, you can apply for a transition from the Government. However, you have to compensate with tools: if you cannot take a tool, you have to add others. Freedom of choice comes on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u166	If you want to, now we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u167	Mr President! The government's social welfare policy does not meet the original objectives of the reform. They have been replaced by ideological coercion and the shovelling of tax resources to the private health business. This reform can be summed up in three words: Attendo, Bee and Health House. But my real question concerns the role of cities in the reform process. The cities have wondered why the Kainuu province of over 70,000 inhabitants, the smaller region of Central Ostrobothnia and a private company can act as service providers, but, for example, Tampere of 230 000 inhabitants or Helsinki of over 600,000 inhabitants cannot. Last week the government was told that the big cities would be able to provide services in the future, and now I ask what the government's line is: can and will Tampere be allowed to act as a service provider or not in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u168	Madam Speaker! Integration of services and improved access to basic services are key objectives of the reform. The implementation of a service and management plan for the citizen must be monitored by the various producers. At the moment, we are not able to implement it, at least in computer terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u171	Mr President! The functionality of information systems and the flow of information at different stages of the service chain can be a matter of life and death for patients. It has been assured that it will be ensured that this information systems are working properly, but unfortunately we have experience of the information systems of the Rural Development Agency which were not completed on schedule, which led to major delays in payments of subsidies, as well as of the transfer of income support to Kela, who, equally, left the most vulnerable support waiting for their money. I would now like to ask the Minister how you will ensure that, at this point, these information systems will function seamlessly and will you promise to increase resources to that point if it does not appear that this will happen? Secondly, I would like to ask you a few more questions about Siu's mess. It has been said here that it can continue in the same way as before, but on the one hand it has the producer and the organiser in the same way and, under this law, it must be separated from each other so that I would like to do this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u172	Madam President! When Mr Marin was talking here about forced company, I would like to remind the Social Democrats that during the last parliamentary term, when you were in the government, there was actually a forced company. At the time, municipal businesses were incorporated because they were active in the open market, and I thought it was sensible. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u173	Mr President! We are pragmatic about this company debate. For example, if an energy company operates on the market, then it makes sense to act in the form of a company.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u176	Mr President! Social reform has been a hot topic for a long time. Reforms are always called for, and constructive criticism is in order when new and better are being prepared. There is always uncertainty and concern about the impact of such a major reform, but we still need to move forward because the social and health sector needs surface renovation and a more profound correction that the previous governments have not achieved. Responses to the opinion have been heard and changes have been made. Freedom of choice does not mean turning the social and health sector into a rampant set-aside, where there is nothing but bees, but the public sector will continue to be a key provider of services. The aim is to move the change forward in a controlled way and the transition period is to ensure the success of the reform. We'll have more time if we need it. I would ask the Minister: Many people in the future would like to choose a familiar actor, for example with customer vouchers. How will customer choice affect the potential of this small operator in the future? And I'd like to ask you about the clinic services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u177	Madam Speaker! In my view, the most important thing is that, when the Finnish ageing population and the tax euro are limited, there is a model for the realisation of equal services in the kingdom. The government should be congratulated on this, because the previous governments have not been able to do so. However, this is a fact. What can we do now, how to create conditions in those provinces? With the knowledge and skills that you representatives have, you should now encourage people in the provinces to participate in the preparation and discussion that could spread the good forms of care, the service chains and the successful ways in which they have done so, and encourage people to contribute to the public sector's continued visibility and good role. That's our job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u178	Madam President! Freedom of choice is to be welcomed in itself, but the model chosen unfortunately does not promote equality of services, not regionally or between different groups. Firstly, this obligation of incorporation should be waived. The responsibility for organising and the integration of services will not be achieved in the desired way if the basic services are transferred to the responsibility of companies and market-based management. Services are fragmented and integration will not take place. I would also like to say to Mr Kalli that in these sparsely populated areas there is no private service market for services. We have a large province and large areas where there is no genuine competition. The challenge is to create the customer’s influence in these situations where the customer does not have the ability to assess his own service needs or to decide which provider he or she is looking for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u179	Madam President! With regard to this slander of private companies, I would like to say a few words because the opposition sees only bogeymen in this matter: a private service provider can also be very good, and let me just give you some examples of where the services have been produced in cooperation with Pihlajalinna through Kuusiolinna Health Ltd for the second year. People get to the doctor there and quickly get the right treatment, the regional hospital is working again with this, and the cost is under control if you look at the financial statements, what the municipalities have at the moment. Only positive feedback has been received, including very positive feedback from customers on what has been done there. I would particularly like to say this to you, fellow demars, to the representatives of the SDP, because when you look at our decision-making here, those decisions have been taken unanimously. Ask the SDP delegates there in our area of origin how they feel about this. Feedback is very, very positive, and when feedback is also good from the citizens, this model should also be available, all over Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u180	Värderade Talman! There is quite a contradiction between the statements on the one hand and the speeches of the government on the other. As far as this cream peeling is concerned, it was not the idea raised by the opposition, but it is found in the government's own impact assessment: it is suspected that this could happen. Minister Rehula said that the reform will create a good opportunity to reduce health inequalities and create a framework for equal access to services. Only 17% of municipalities feel this way. That is an amazingly small number, and I ask: is this because the municipalities do not know what is best for them, or perhaps do not understand this reform, or is this now linked to the improvements or changes that have been made here? What is this about, because the municipalities are not convinced that these hopes will be fulfilled? There is, of course, a certain logic to corporateisation in that it places private and public operators in the same position, but from the point of view of integration it is quite damaging because it builds a firewall between the province and the social welfare company. This is quite unambiguous. In an independent province — which itself is unable to control its own budget, with a state as guardian, capable of interfering with operational activities and investments [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u183	Mr President! Finns have been allowed to choose their place of care within public health care for almost nine years, and that is a good thing for the customer. Now that there is more choice, there will be more private and organizations and foundations, that is better for the customer. Now, in a few speeches, it has been criticised that this system of freedom of choice chosen by the government is different within the provinces, so that only large cities have freedom of choice and not small municipalities. But you who have visited the smaller municipalities, I am from there, look at them: there are already bridge stations in every one of these municipalities, there are occupational health services, and they are coming, they are certainly coming. When you talk to these health professionals, they say that a city with 2,000 inhabitants is the kind of place to go. We've got plenty of freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u184	Värderade Talman! Congressman Keränen was talking about foundations and others. Minister Risikko said here a couple of weeks ago that the obligation to enter into a partnership may also apply to foundations and other associations, and it is in fact a pretty serious matter for elderly care in small localities, because foundations and associations manage this to a large extent, especially in Swedish-speaking regions. My question is: will this compulsory incorporation also apply to these? In that case, it is a rather serious blow to the availability of certain services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u185	Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and then the ministers have a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u186	Mr President! In some speeches here today, it has been argued that freedom of choice is one of the most important objectives of this reform for all citizens. But, in fact, the model presented by the government will not be warmed up by the public either, because according to the recent THL Reforming Social and Health Services survey, only one in five of the respondents chose freedom of choice among the three main objectives. In this survey, people stressed that the most important are the strengthening of basic services, equality, integration of services and integrated care chains. Now I ask: how on earth, for example, is forced-to-carrying serving integration or intact service chains, which these citizens consider to be the most important objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u187	The ministers now have one minute's response because three ministers had already asked for the floor. I'll admit it to everyone, but the one-minute answers at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u188	Mr President! The Language Act is in force even in a situation where a change in social welfare and health care is taking place. Secondly, the province has the opportunity to influence the way service production is managed, and then, among other things, Swedish is one of the drivers that can be used. Secondly, how are small and medium-sized enterprises? Confirmed cases: bill, personal budget. And then we have written articles on the freedom of choice law so that small companies can also be on this journey. The province can also contribute to this. And then the voucher and the price. There will not be a single price in parliamentary debates, because each province will decide the size of its own bill. The law gives the frame, the province decides. About staff: I encourage progress in each province to allow time for staff to be involved
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u189	Minister Mattila, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u190	Mr President! Mr SDP, you asked what was going on with the basic Finnish county model. Very well, thank you, as is the case with the party's policy programmes. This is a government proposal — is it not? — but last season you did not get your own proposal through the government. I do not know whether you will get the opposition this season, or whether you have decided which model you are choosing? But this is a government proposal, and this is now being taken forward with determination. And, as I said, there are certainly not very many models here to be tested and tested. This government, too, has the legacy of the previous period and also the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which we respect. Mr SDP, I did not really hear from you what came out pretty well here from the government and from all the parliamentary parties: do you, for example, concern yourself with the status of staff? I did not really hear it many times about your speeches, but this is something we should discuss.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u191	I have the floor again, Mr Vehviläinen, for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u192	Mr President! To Mr Marin, the population base does not always decide. The basis for this reform has been very much that of the current hospital districts, almost in line with it. If you want to get a certificate why the population bases alone do not decide, you can dig up statistics from 2015, which compares the productivity of hospital districts. I have to say, that's where those little hospital districts are located very well. Then there's been many appearances here. You've got a lot of social work that I know well, too. Of course, you cannot continue your social security as such when it is now a joint municipal authority — everyone knows it. It will become the province of Meija, as they say themselves, and will have the same province group as the province itself, the business and these companies. Finally, I would like to say in particular to Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen and also to Mrs Krista Mikkonen about this integration. I'm surprised that you're coming, too, because... For example, when you're in war, you've been involved in the incorporation of support services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u193	Mr President! One of the biggest issues of uncertainty and even fear has been today that large international companies are going to take over the market. This is at least what the opposition is afraid of at the moment. However, overall responsibility, gradual progress in freedom of choice and ensuring the role of SMEs are in the process of preventing this. Many still remember that even at the end of the 1990s, the decision of the Lipponen Government opened the Kela compensations to private producers. Do you think this would have been one of the biggest policies of the SDP? Currently, multinational companies are doing business and export profits almost duty-free abroad. The previous government did nothing about this, just talked to them to warm them up. I should actually ask Mr Urpiline and Mrs Rinte why this has happened since the time of Minister Lipponen. However, I will leave the question behind because they are not in this Chamber and I do not want to cause any unnecessary regret to anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u194	Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, along with Mr Kulmala, another person who has asked but has not yet received the floor is Mr Hoskonen. — Mr Hoskonen, now you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u195	Mr President! Over the decades, Finnish health care has changed dramatically, and we must admit that. So it is clear that we need reforms, the old model cannot go. After all, the strangest situation in Finland is that we have more doctors than ever in the history of Finland. Nevertheless, there are more and more people who are unable to see a doctor. So we're gonna have to do something about this. And it is absolutely essential that, now that Parliament takes a new decision on this matter, the government brings a bill to Parliament, that we control that every person actually gets to the doctor, and precisely so that, with reasonable cost burden, we do it and no one is left out of health care, because it is quite fatal if a person does not get to the doctor: his disease can become so bad that he even becomes a bed patient at the end of his life because he cannot get to the doctor. So this is what we need to fix. The second point is that cream peeling must be prevented and care taken to ensure that services in remote areas also work. That's where it starts, and they build it. I don't think we're gonna come up with a rubber wheel the first time, but this is good when we're tough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u196	And even after 3:25 p.m., the reply was also requested by the representative of the Sea. — Mr Meri, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder about this situation in the sense that this government proposal really came after the turn of the year and, as Minister Risikko said, this has been being developed all along. I saw in the Aamulehti that in November the 13th, Rinne has stated that it is more likely that the government will not be able to pass through the social model. He has already wished and thought so at the time, and he has said that the SDP will change this freedom of choice for the wars. In some ways I was thinking that, when we did not even expect the model to end, which is still in progress, when it was announced in November that this was bad and that it was going to be overturned, I would support the idea that there is a political question here that we do not really want to hear about it. Then I would have asked: has the situation in Uusimaa between Helsinki and Uusimaa been considered from there on the basis of statements? That's what the local executives are for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u198	Mr President! I would also like to hear the answer to my question from the government's ministerial committee — as Minister Risikko shook his head, but I want an answer now in a clear Finnish language — whether the big cities can in future be service providers or not. I hope for an answer in a clear Finnish language. This is also what Tampere is thinking about, and I know that many other big cities are thinking about, and this was flashed last week through the news, and that is why I want an answer. The second point to which I would like an answer is this transitional period. It has been said here today in the cabinet that six months before or six months later, but Minister Saarikko, who is still here, was present, and he pointed out that this transitional period could be up to two years. Is that correct? [Parliament : Likes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u199	Mr President! Every time major, big and historic reforms are made, the debate begins that quite a few things are quite well. In fact, our social and health services are falling apart at the basic level, and they have been falling apart for a long time now because this reform has not been carried out. So it is absolutely necessary to do so now, and the government is the longest ever. It is quite clear that, in many areas where preparatory work has been going on for a long time, freedom of choice will certainly also move faster, but it is extremely important that the government has been able to change this implementation so that even slower ones can prepare it for longer. The debate was also important: the maternity clinics remain strongly on the public side, and the provinces can decide on them. I find it amazing that when the opposition is asking questions here, sometimes the provinces have too little power and, on the other hand, the provinces have too much power again. Now the provinces decide on the clinics — try to decide what to think
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u200	Mr President! In this speech by Mr Sarkomaa, he wondered that the opposition had given no concrete alternatives or solutions to shortening patient queues. I can say that on several occasions the RKP has provided its own response, namely that during rush hour, doctors and nurses could be added to the health centre, inter alia, by providing these service vouchers to customers. Then here freedom of choice has been praised by giving everyone the same opportunities for fast service. But is the private producer always better in terms of quality than the public service? That's what I'd ask. And can everyone, the weak and the old, actually benefit from this model of freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u201	Mr President! It is a thin content for freedom of choice that you can list yourself once a year to a social welfare centre, especially if it costs increasing customer fees and reducing services. From the point of view of genuine freedom of choice, it is essential to strengthen the autonomy and involvement of patients in decision-making and choices concerning them, and this could also be promoted without incorporation and this extensive privatisation. Mr President! Although cream peeling and customer choice are prohibited, individual companies can circumvent the prohibition of cream peeling in many ways: decisions of establishment, marketing and transfer costs to the province's business. A major problem with cream peeling arises from the so-called passive choice, i.e. if a person does not actively choose a health centre, he will be listed as a customer of the nearest social welfare centre, even if it is private, and will receive money from it even if he does not spend one single time on that service during the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u202	Mr President! It has been interesting to listen to this important debate that has taken place. Indeed, this is an exceptionally large reform of services. Of course, the city centre is moving out of people's services. But it is also a question of good governance, of service management, which will be very demanding in the provinces. I myself am concerned that the provinces will understand that the services also extend to the provinces, to the sub-regions. Of course it is possible, but it requires clear guidelines from the decision-makers in the province. Mr Kääriäinen said here that this is an exceptionally big reform in Finland's 100th year. That is why I am a little puzzled that the SDP, as such a large party, cannot clearly define what it really wants to do about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u203	Mr President! Mr Government, you have now set a new time limit for this freedom of choice, you have given it six months more time. However, it does not remove the concerns that experts have expressed precisely in terms of this freedom of choice and patient safety and the functioning of information systems. This may have been an example of the fact that if you are a multi-sick elderly who goes to a new private health centre to see a doctor, so that safe, good treatment, proper treatment, can be made possible for the patient, the health centre needs the patient’s prior knowledge and needs information on existing diseases, medications, drug allergies, many other things. Here, in many ways, the stumbling block is precisely this functional information system. Now Minister Risikko has just said that if this does not work, then we will do it some other way. I would now like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how will you ensure patient safety in this problem of information systems? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u206	...I will have to come to you when,after the time-spanning,Mt.Standards are over,there will also be an
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u207	Mr President! By the way, I must say that there is a difference between your left and our right, and there is a difference between how we view people and the ability of people to make their own decisions. Your view is that people are governed by government, and we see again that every person has the right to self-determination, whether disabled or ordinary. This is the ultimate difference. Even today, when we have freedom of choice within the public sector, it is increasingly important to send a message that people say that you have a choice, even if they do not use it. One point I would like to raise to the end: I agree that organisations should ensure that organisations in the Regional Law have a status that provides voluntary work, including peer support. Their role must be guaranteed and recorded in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u208	Mr President! Indeed, there is an ideological difference between the fact that we want to have services for all people in the future. Now these risks, which have been highlighted by the experts, are not the risks we have come up with, but are shared by the hundreds of experts. 93% of social welfare managers fear that this will not happen, and they are the people who are currently responsible for almost the best social and health care system in the world. They're worried. I don't know where to find the experts you're listening to. As Social Democrats, we want all people to have services in the future. That is why I do not understand — once again — when school health care was guaranteed as a public service production, why maternity clinics cannot be secured as a public service production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u209	Mr President! The same thing goes on here. The opposition, in particular the demars, continues the concerns expressed in the legislative consultation on freedom of choice, to which the proposed corrections have been reported in several ministers' speeches. This conversation isn't going to take this job any further. But, Mr President, there is another matter. There has been a lot of discussion here about this incorporation. Minister Ruhula said — a direct quotation — this is what he said: “The company is a useful form of organisation. Companies can be used to ensure the comparability and transparency of effectiveness and costs." I couldn't agree more. We believe that we as taxpayers must also demand this in the public sector. Whether the health centre is doing the right thing, whether health and services are produced in maximum terms is really important and also an important motivator factor for our more than 200,000 employees in the social services sector. They want to do the best they can.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u210	Värderade Herr Talman! Valfrihet i sig är bra och bolagiseringen behöver inte Heller vara ett problemm, men den ruus modlen som regeringen har gått in för är nog synnerligen krånglig och byråkratisk. Framför allt är jag orolig för hur integrationen ska kunna lyckas i den ox.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u211	Mr President! I would have asked: Who determines what kind of service a person receives and what the promise of service is now being given to Finns with this social welfare reform? Great concerns have been expressed about freedom of choice in terms of the possibility that costs may run away, and if so, where will additional funding come from? Of course, it has been said that customer fees are one, which is flexible, and more money can be collected there. The second option is, of course, to cut the level of services. But will these be made in the provinces, will there then be different services available to people in different provinces at different levels, or will there be a national policy that gives the promise of service to which every Finn is entitled and what is the minimum?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u212	Mr President! Ideological differences really do exist between us, and they have also been reflected in this debate. I find it very unusual and a little regrettable that it often seems that public service production is always very inefficient — and this is not the case in many countries either. I would also like to say, for the sake of clarity, that of course we are signing that we certainly have problems with access to a doctor in basic health care, and we all know and recognise that. But that is precisely why, last season, we still felt jointly that by ensuring social integration, we were able to put prevention in place. Now that integration in this model does not come or is very difficult to implement, it is very unclear where we are going to put these drinks in this reform. I believe that we are a little divided on this basic point,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u213	Mr President! I have followed this debate for a long time here, and it is only inevitable that the opposition here will deliberately misunderstand and question the same things many times. Of course it is the right of the opposition, but really when you think that you really want to make a big reform, in which the government has now succeeded and actually has an impact there on the provision of services, then, too — you talk about freedom of choice all the time, you want to prevent that freedom of choice — you want to be involved in choosing a good reform for Finland now and be involved in the way that this can actually be carried forward. Then we must remember that this freedom of choice is not something to be feared because we have to think that the government is now proposing a transitional period. When not all provinces are in the same position, i.e. there are different positions and capacities at the moment, it is given a good chance. Then you have to remember one thing: you can't choose that client; you choose that client. Remember that now, people, every time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u214	I now have the floor to the Minister. After that, representatives from Haatainen, Saarakkala, Laitinen-Pesola and Taavitsainen will be on the list. — Now Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u215	Mr President! There have been concerns about integration here, and the last question in this connection was who will monitor it to ensure that it is implemented. If there is anything in this legislative package, then there is control and control, which means that, in these areas, the lack of supervision does not leave integration. Secondly, the financing solution is such that it encourages. In my previous speech I said that there are many things in this package of laws that if there is an A, then it will result in a B. The same person who has spoken in this Chamber today, in which he was concerned about the status of the staff, spoke in which he said that, when this comes to this time of the year, the time for a person to commit to that service provider, the time for freedom of choice will be slim. You should decide what you want now. If you want to safeguard the status of staff, for example through this way that you have to commit, you will be helped to reduce the state of uncertainty and confusion that has been deliberately attempted to spread in this debate. With regard to Ict: In its reply, the Government stated that as regards further work, both in terms of resources and in terms of know-how, it will be ensured that the ict solutions make progress so much that we have the information on the day it has to go. Then on the status of organisations: At the moment, we are in a situation where the organisation has to decide for itself whether to rely on the municipality or the province in the future. When I have been asked, I have instructed every single head of organisation to contact the head of social change in the province and to make a sound that the organisations are involved in this. This is where this whole corporate thing came up. After all, we have a situation in history where the law was unchanged, but when the interpretation of the tax authority changed, the housing services of the elderly had to be incorporated within a few weeks. Such a situation should not arise, but should happen consciously. The thing I myself am concerned about — and I am concerned about a few other things — is that this share of peer support and its voluntary work would not disappear in this whole way, so that it would not fall into the hands of the organisations. There is no advice to do this except to communicate at the national and regional levels with the actors who are driving it forward. Well, as far as Exote is concerned, you don't have to break up Eksote. A rather strange organisation is the one that today is able to know what should be an administrative model or an operating procedure in 3 or 5 or 20 years' time. In the future we will have Exote, run as a whole and functionally in a situation where we do not have to break up Eksote. There are results units there today, which are very independent. Operating model, functionally, Exote,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u217	And I would like to repeat these comments which I have marked here, namely the representatives of Haatainen, Saarakkala, Laitinen-Pesola, Taavitsainen and Sarkomaa. — Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u218	Mr President! Once again, we Social Democrats and the opposition as a whole want to see a social reform, but we would like a controlled solution. My question is: what is the reason why the government stubbornly adheres now to this method of incorporation and takes it forward with such a timetable, which all the experts warn that it will become chaos? It is precisely the interoperability of these information systems that is being warned of the Kela. In their opinion on this income support reform, which has now been quite problematic, they state that it took two and a half years just within one of its operators, within Kela, to make those ict systems work, and they warn that the government's corporate model of freedom of choice is impossible if it is intended that the services of freedom of choice are to be provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u221	Mr President! Mr Marin asked what this timetable is for this reform and the transition to freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u224	Mr President! In this debate, too, it has been said on many occasions that our main problem at the moment is that we do not have access to a doctor in basic health care. I would like us to expand this debate a little. Whether there is freedom of choice or there is no freedom of choice, the question is that we have effective division of labour and that it is precisely when you need to get to the professional who needs it. It may be a physical therapist, it may be a diabetes nurse, it may be an asthma nurse. So it's not just a question of whether it's a doctor, it could be some other professional. Another is the concern that when freedom of choice comes, how can people choose? Freedom of choice does not in any way undermine the obligation of a trained professional to continue to direct and advise patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u225	Mr President! I would like the ministers to be able to tell us even more about this social welfare bill, which is part of this reform and is, I believe, coming into force on 1 January 2019. It is rather bad that we do not have it in this whole discussion. In Finland, the social security charges are very high internationally and should be reduced. This situation was exacerbated by the fact that last year the government authorised municipalities to increase these fees by 30%, and this was used in many municipalities. Today, the health centre fee is 20.90 and the hospital’s clinic fee is 41.70 in many places. In Mikkeli, for example, this means that more than one in ten people in Mikkeli have missed a doctor because of a lack of money. This information comes from the financial statements discussed yesterday in the City Board.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u226	One last response to Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u227	Mr President! Social welfare and health care, which is the public's responsibility, are at its best. Freedom of choice is part of it. I am very pleased to hear that the government does not rush into this legislative process on freedom of choice. That legislative feedback when you read it is like the whole Dostoyevsky production, and it needs to be carefully reviewed. I personally think three things are important. It is very important that public service providers are considered to be involved. We don't want monopolies, we don't want oligopolies. In order for the multi-producer model to work, there must be a strong involvement of the public producer, SMEs, sole proprietors and organisations. Secondly: it is important that the impact on staff is transparent, people make those services. Thirdly, yes, as a Helsinkier, I say that the timetables must be such that Uusimaa is involved. These are important and I look very closely at them. To the opposition, I say: Your social model has a competitive model that favours big companies, i.e. the way the municipalities compete, the big ones do. Freedom of choice may:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u228	Mr President, it was quite a busy time. — Let us now move on to the list of speakers, however, so that if the Minister still has reason to speak for one minute, for example, on the basis of what has been heard here... Apparently not. So we move on to...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u229	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked a simple question here twice. I have not given an ideological speech but asked a simple question because I want an answer. Can or will cities not be able to act as service providers in the future? This is the kind of news that was read last week in the papers, and now I want an answer. I hope the Minister will respond. This is not an ideological speech; this is a genuine question. The second thing I asked is this timetable. Could it be a transitional period, not six months in one direction or another, but even two years? On these two points, I would like an answer. You're the minister. Do not mock us as representatives of the people, but answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u230	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u231	Mr President! Sote has also talked a lot about municipal elections. There was a conversation that I was especially fond of. A pensioner couple in their early 70s came to me and said that the government is doing a really stupid thing when it comes to implementing the social welfare reform. They felt that everything was fine: they have good occupational pensions, they are relatively healthy, they have a delay in accessing the health centre, and they have a short journey to the university hospital if they need specialist services. And they could afford to go to a private doctor, too, if that's what they want. Kela also replaces part of that visit. So, what do they need a social welfare reform for? Many residents of a municipality on the outskirts of a small province have come to express their concern about the social welfare reform: Will they remove even a small amount of social and health services from municipal centres? What if, with freedom of choice, there will be no companies to provide social services, is there no service available at all? What if pension is not enough to provide health services? Although Kela replaces a part of the taxi journeys exceeding EUR 25, it costs EUR 50 for a taxi ride back to the central hospital. Are these people in need of a social reform that many opposition parties have harnessed as an electoral issue? They are scaring us with reform, and false information is being released. Many municipal decision-makers have also been anxious over the years to see that even one patient requiring long - term special care, such as a patient who has been put on a ventilator after an accident, may have made hundreds of thousands of breaks in the municipality’s annual budget. Do these municipal decision-makers need social welfare reform? Mr President! For over a decade now, various government formations have been trying to reform the war. It is the biggest reform in the history of Finland's independence, and it is necessary to achieve it. Annual expenditure in tens of billions of existing social and health care structures is becoming increasingly packed in the publishing of special-level services. At the same time, basic services and support for health and functional capacity, i.e. prevention, are increasingly being neglected and funded. This development must be stopped, and that is what social reform is all about. As visible to man, the change brought about by the social welfare reform is that the treatment chain will be unbroken. Customer and patient care is no longer a random and uncertain consultation of different professionals, insufficient information from one doctor to another and constant phone calls after one's own business. Yes, the basic idea of the social welfare reform is that social and health care professionals adopt a new way of working together for the benefit of the patient and that the patient can also be motivated to take responsibility for his own health or for his post-operative rehabilitation, and that the electronic information systems in which patients’ medical records, medication, X-ray responses and laboratory test results should be passed are carried out. Accessible information systems are a prerequisite for the overall reform of social services. Mr President! The Centre wanted to implement a social welfare reform in the government programme because we have the very basic idea that we want to secure adequate social and health services, including for citizens further away from the growth centres of small municipalities, including those citizens who are not blessed with perfect health, those citizens who do not have access to occupational health care and those who do not have a large salary or pension to protect them. The centre wants a social welfare reform so that municipalities and municipal decision-makers can focus better on promoting the municipal vitality, education, culture, construction, infrastructure and the well-being and health of residents. Mr President! What did I say to the well-being pensioner couple for which they need social welfare reform? I asked the counter-question if they had children. They replied that there are three and there are seven grandchildren in total. I said that you have ten good reasons to hope that the social reform will finally be achieved. We have one of the world's highest quality specialised treatments, but we have been somewhat blinded by it and forgotten that the most cost-effective and humanely sustainable is to provide basic services. We remember to idealize the doctor who successfully cuts lung cancer, but who honors the health center doctor who motivates hundreds of customers to quit smoking? Basic services to honor, they are the soul of social welfare reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u232	Mr President! The government's historic reform of the social and regional reforms in relation to the related freedom of choice legislation has received a great deal of criticism as expected in the recent consultation round. The government parties have looked the truth in the eye and this morning they have given birth to the necessary changes to freedom of choice. We did it. The power over the future of freedom of choice lies in the provinces. As the opinions indicated, freedom of choice in the form previously presented was perceived as a risk in terms of costs, public service provision and practical implementation. A lot of people thought they were getting too big a bite at a time. We should proceed in stages, with more restraint and with greater care in terms of freedom of choice. However, the freedom of choice that has been re-created today is a good one. What is kept from the previous performance is that the manor-Volvo will no longer be able to pass the Esla driver to the doctor, but the waiting time will be the same for both of us in the future. Mr President! The regional model of the 18 regions as such has gathered a great deal of praise. And if you think of a clean regional model for the people without freedom of choice, that would be all that matters, it must be recognised. Firstly, the gap between primary health care and special care could be bridged by the same organiser and, in practice, the same producer region. The integration of services would be much better as information would pass and part-optimization would be excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u235	Mr President! Here it emerged from the opposition that it is like a day in the ground, but I suppose it could be said that even the opposition has done their part in this, having made this sort of re-programme here in our Parliament, which we can talk about again and again. On the other hand, it can be said that the reform of social and health care needs this talk and reflection, perhaps finding common lines. Firstly, whether freedom of choice is the most demanding part of this change: I would argue it is not. I would argue more that the regional reform itself is even more demanding than freedom of choice because we are talking about the reorganisation of over 200,000 people in the new provinces. Let me take an example that has risen here before: the province of Uusimaa has 55,000 employees and 30,000 professionals and experts in organizations and companies, i.e. nearly 100,000 people, which is more than the people in our smallest province. I would even argue that we will be demanding real change managers and also management experts. A few thoughts on freedom of choice: Firstly, I would say that this model, which has now come from the hands of the government as a proposal, is the best thing I have seen in a long time. I am basing myself on the fact that for the first time I have seen how customers, our citizens, have been divided into four separate parts according to their life situations and the different types of policies needed in these life situations. The first part is — each of our citizens is part of it — to support the health and well-being of the population. In this respect, of course, the municipalities will play a first-ranking role, and then the question arises as to what kind of bonuses we are giving municipalities for the welfare task that will then also save them social and health care services. At the moment, the funding model is more rewarding for the regions to have more disease than for reducing the number of people with diabetes 2 who are directly known to cause multi-disease over a long period of time, and also, you can say, costs. Then, if you look at one part of which we have, you can say, the greatest amount, you talk about the need for integration, then 10% of our citizens are those who use about 80% of social and health care services. The opposition here has been screaming for integration. Integration is not only due to the fact that the organisation is putting operations together, it is primarily due to the fact that we are doing it on a customer-based, human-based level. At this point, this 10 per cent group will be the responsibility of the province: there is a customer responsible person who makes a customer service plan, i.e. integrates the services of our people, such as substance abuse, mental health or disability, after which they will be able to exercise their freedom of choice, even when choosing a rehabilitation site. I would say that this is the real integration combined with a controlled freedom of choice. On the other hand, when it comes to people who need services at random — let's take Mrs. Little Huopalahde: Mrs. Little Huopalah has a visit to the Laakso health centre when she has no other choice, but she has very little income. Freedom of choice also gives the lady the opportunity to choose Dextra, who is near there. Suppose there is a longer line to the Laakso health centre and there is a shorter line to Dextra. For the first time in her life, she will have the opportunity to choose a place where she can be treated more quickly. I do not understand why the opposition is opposed to giving everyone a choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u236	Mr President! During this term of government, the level of the government’s lawmaking has got the hairs up for many. Bad lawmaking is, for example, the fact that the government has been arrogant about experts’ assessments and opinions. So it does not just apply to this bill, but to many others before that. But if we talk about this bill, there may not be very many experts who would support, for example, this model of freedom of choice proposed by the government. I do not believe that the government has been able to respond adequately today to the criticisms of experts and commentators. The government has accused the opposition of intimidation, but when all the criticisms that have been made here have come from experts and statements made, not just from us, then there is a great deal of concern in many quarters as far as this is concerned. The government’s way of bringing the poorly prepared model forward stubbornly raises great wonder in many quarters. So there is a need for social reform, and the SDP accepts the Government's original objectives for social reform and also the transfer of the responsibility for organising to larger entities. The main objective of the Sote reform is the availability of equal services across Finland as well as integrated care chains. People need to get to treatment, and there must be a reduction in the playing from one door to the other, or it really needs to be stopped. Unfortunately, the government itself has forgotten these original objectives. The government model does not include the integration of services, integrated care chains, equality, de-bureaucraticisation and even cost control. The government has built a model that leads to forced companyisation and the breakdown of service chains, which also makes cost control more difficult. In future, tax resources will not explicitly target the provision of human services, but will be channelled into the hands of private profit seekers. This tells us a lot about the real interests of the government. Mr President! I think freedom of choice is a good thing. Even now, citizens can choose a health centre, and in special medical care, the doctor and the customer are wondering which hospital, for example, would make sense to do something. Such freedom of choice is very much to be welcomed and should be promoted. So freedom of choice could be achieved on the basis of current legislation, so that everyone has the right to choose their own social centre. The organiser, or province, could even outsource these centres if he wanted to. In addition, the use of service vouchers can be increased and personal budgeting introduced. Many experts have given a green light to these ideas. It would be very important for the provinces themselves to be able to decide how they operate and also to enable municipalities to be even service providers when the province so decides. Mr President! Thus, both experts and commentators have taken a negative view of the government’s model. I must wonder, then, whether the government is really going to push through, for example, this forced takeover. We in North Karelia have developed an excellent way of working with Siu's wars, and very few of us believe that the government's way forward or model would be a good one. Even representatives of government parties in the councils are not in favour of this coercion. You don't want to be incorporated in two years' time, but you want to continue to develop your activities on your own model. Both the Siu Sote Council and the majority of the municipalities in North Karelia have objected in their statements to compulsory companyisation. I have to ask: Why are the provinces not allowed to choose their own course of action that suits themselves? Why is it not possible to start or continue such pilots? The government model threatens to wreck the development work we have achieved in North Karelia together and together. Unfortunately, today there has come to be very contradictory information from the ministers as to whether or not Siu's war should be broken up with the threat of forced takeover. So I still do not know, I did not receive any answers, because Mr Rehula and Mr Vehviläinen answered my questions and Mr Mikkonen in quite different ways. Together with Mr Mikkonen, we do not know what we are going to say in North Karelia today or tomorrow, because we received quite different answers. Finally, Mr President, the timetable proposed is absolutely impossible and can even lead to chaos. Better services and cost control remain only a dream. There should be a person at the center, but now this is completely forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u237	Mr President! The social welfare reform was supposed to reduce health inequalities between people, facilitate access to treatment, become cheaper than the current system. In a word, it was to ensure good help and care for all those who needed it. All parties agree on these objectives. But then came the regional reform of the centre and the freedom of choice of the coalition. The whole content of the reform was renewed. The means became goals, and at the same time the original objectives were forgotten. A person in need of treatment was left at the feet of the system. We must now take a step backwards: we must return to the original objectives of the reform, so that we can ensure good care for everyone. Mr President! One expert after another has warned us that the goal of good care, as presented by the government, will not be achieved. These are serious warnings, we play with the health of people. Social reform has not been called the reform of the century in vain; it affects the lives of all of us. If we fail, the consequences can be very serious. The Government bill gives responsibility for the success of the regional councils. It is the responsibility of the Board of Governors to ensure that the treatment chains work. The Board of Governors must make service-producing companies, organisations and local businesses cooperate. The Board of Governors must ensure that the county organises the services if there are no other producers. But how, there's no answer to the bill. The provinces and the councilmen don't have a social worker's wand, and by waving it all over it, it's like a dance. The tools of regional councils are strategy and agreements with service providers. Are they enough? Many experts and commentators say they don't. The Government’s proposal will dramatically increase the number of service providers. In addition to their own companies, sprained ankles and tough fluns can also be handled by private health centres and organisations’ offices. The province should somehow ensure that the care chain works and the information passes, even if the same person is managed by a handful of different actors. What if it doesn't? It's bad for the county to go to a private company and tell them how to arrange the treatment. The regional councils had to increase democracy, but now a system is being created whereby delegates are left between wood and bark to cope with an impossible task, and it is called democracy. Genuine democracy will not come about if the decision-makers are not given the power to assume responsibility. There is a need for the right to tax in the provinces. Mr President! The best treatment is timely treatment. Access to care as early as possible saves both human suffering and money. The aim of the Sote reform was to facilitate and speed up access to treatment. There had to be plenty of basic services available to deal with the problems before expensive special services were needed. The opposite is happening now. The Sote Centers receive money from every client, not every care. It means that the less care the company gives, the more profit it can get. In such cases, it is advisable to offer as little basic services as possible to make the treatment as cheap as possible. It doesn't matter if the patient gets worse and needs special services, because they are arranged by different parties. Then the bill goes to a different address, from ditch to alliikko. A financing model is needed for the social security system which ensures access to basic services and reduces the need for special services. The model proposed by the government does not meet these criteria. Mr President! The good care of people must not be sacrificed to the pursuit of victory. We need a social welfare reform, but it must be carried out from the needs of people, not the social welfare companies. The Greens are of the opinion that there is no need to go back to square one in the process of social reform. It is enough to return to the marching order recorded in the government's own programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u240	Mr President! Since it seems that the government is not listening to the opposition, I hope you will listen to the statements. Unfortunately, this does not appear to be the case in the light of today's debate. I am now reading some of the statements made by my own region, the constituency of Oulu. The city of Pudasjärvi states: "The regional and social reform is necessary and is supported by the Instead, the exercise of freedom of choice, as set out in the draft law, in practice would make it impossible to achieve the desired benefits. Freedom of choice in this way would increase health and well-being differences and reduce equal access to services. The proposed way to implement the freedom of choice of basic and specific services through the obligation of incorporation and market mechanisms runs counter to the objectives originally set for social and regional reform in terms of equality, integration of services and cost control. The model limits the right to decide how to provide services and to direct services as a whole, which is inherent in the responsibility for organising services and self-government. It is practically impossible to assume responsibility for organising and integrate services when basic services are transferred to the responsibility of companies and market-based management. Service production is fragmented beyond the actual control power of the provinces, and from the customer’s point of view new interfaces are created. In practice, it is impossible to achieve an overall package of governance proposed in the draft law that would achieve the objectives of the reform and manage the structural risks inherent in the model." — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — So it was Lake Pudas. The regional reform of Kainuu states: "The implementation and implementation of the Freedom of Due to long distances and poor demographic structure, the alternative services required for freedom of choice in a large part of Kainuu are unlikely to be achieved with reasonable accessibility. Freedom of choice can lead to dispersal of existing service chains in social and health services, resulting in higher costs and reduced services. Companying and services of direct choice can also contribute to increasing competition for social and health care professionals, which may put pressure on the salary costs of municipal and joint municipal boards. Furthermore, the decline in the availability of professionals may jeopardise the proper organisation of social and health services, even though the province bears the final responsibility for the organisation of services. A deterioration in the availability of professionals may jeopardise the proper organisation of social and health services, for example in the case of on-call activities." — — — — So it was a regional reform of Kainuu. The City of Oulu states: "The availability of services alone does not solve As availability improves, there is a risk that increased supply and competition for customers will create additional demand in services where it is not appropriate from the point of view of effectiveness and the health and well-being benefits produced. There is a risk that the most needy and vulnerable citizens will be deprived of good and effective service as producers try to direct them to someone else. This can even increase both costs and health and well-being inequalities further. The proposal does not provide sufficient guidance for the province, both in terms of the quality of services, access to services and the economy." — — — — So it was the city of Oulu. The municipality of Ii: "The proposed method is in part incompatible with the objectives originally set for social and regional reform in terms of equality, integration of services and cost control. Taking responsibility for organisation and the integration of services is a challenge when basic services are transferred to the responsibility of companies and market-based management." The Association of Northern Ostrobothnia: "The structural risk is that healthy and functional customers will exercise freedom of choice and seek reception more often, while customers in need of services will not use this possibility, which would in fact increase health and well-being differences." Mr President! I could continue to quote these statements for a long time. My intention was to show that a great many commentators, both experts and regional and local actors, are now very concerned about what this freedom of choice legislation does in terms of the integration of services, the health inequalities of the population and the costs. I very much hope that the government will read these statements and hear them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u241	Mr President! Yesterday I was in Pori at a meeting of the Sasatette Steering Group, and it was a social meeting where we did not talk about administrative structures but focused on customers and equal access to services in Satakunta. I have to say that all the municipalities in Satakunta had a good spirit to move forward, and that is why I was a little confused about the speech made here earlier by Mrs Kiuru in connection with the preparation of the war in the province. It felt like we were living in a different province. In this reform, too much has been said and, in my opinion, far too much has been said about these different structures, and then customers, patients and staff are easily excluded. However, this whole reform will be carried out for customers, and the staff will implement it in practice. The reform should result in a well-functioning high-quality service system that provides health and well-being benefits for citizens. Since I was a little critical of the relatively little talk about staffing, I was thinking in this speech of my own to raise a few points. Therefore, staff will play a key role in the success of the change, and it is essential to secure the status and empowerment of staff. This will enable staff to genuinely commit themselves to the transition process. Increased competition raises concerns among professionals. This is reflected, among other things, in the opinions of key trade unions. Of course, concerns are directed both at the maintenance of jobs and the conditions of employment in the future. This uncertainty can and must be alleviated by keeping staff involved at all times. The fact is, however, that the need for skilled social and health care staff in different workplaces will in fact continue to be greater than there may be in the free market. The success of the reform in practice requires anticipation, adequate resources and good management of change. I would therefore like to emphasise the need for good management of staff. In particular, close managers have a key role to play in such a long process of change: on the one hand, they need to be able to support staff and on the other hand they need to be able to support them through this change. This future change will challenge us, cause uncertainty, but there is always an opportunity, even though in public debate, as is the case here today, there seems to be an increase in these threats. Like every one of us, I have met a lot of both social welfare professionals and potential patients in recent weeks who have been rather confused about what is going to happen. However, such one clear idea in these discussions has been that now is the momentum that something has to happen. People really expect things to change for the better. These people also have an understanding that it may be that things may not be the best possible right away, but they may also need to be corrected. I thought it would be a good idea to quote Tehy's previous honorary president, Toini Nousiainen, a respected health professional. He often said it was worth remembering that the best is the worst enemy of good. So let's at least do a good thing now, if not the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u242	Mr President! Social reform is essential. First of all, it is needed to reduce the differences in well-being and health that we have experienced. The difference between the life expectancy of a rich and poor man in Finland has increased much more than ten years, and this requires correction. Quite often we in Finland have been following the example of a neighbouring country, Sweden. However, as a result of a similar health reform in Sweden, equality in the use of services has deteriorated. Medical visits to those in need of little help have increased and those in need have decreased. It has been found that when you focus on increasing visits, quality and content suffer and so do very sick patients. Are we now in the process of a reform in which health inequalities continue to grow? The government's quick repairs in this respect are not very convincing. Secondly, social reform is needed to improve equal access to services. However, these 18 provinces, on whose shoulders the reform of social services is now being brought together, are of very different sizes. In these smallest provinces there will hardly be freedom of choice in the same way as in the large urban areas. Similarly, in larger provinces there is likely to be much freedom of choice in the centers of the province, but not so much outside the centres. Equal access to services is unlikely to improve with the government model. As in the neighbouring country, as a result of a similar health reform, equality in the use of services was weakened. New health centres focus on densely populated and well-managed areas where the need for care is low. Thirdly, the aim is to curb cost growth by EUR 3 billion. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the implementation of the system of freedom of choice when the market for social services is opened up once and for all throughout the country. The scope of direct choice services, agreements with producers and compensation practices determine how significant cost savings will be and whether they will be at all. It also raises concerns as to whether all regions have sufficient knowledge to conclude these agreements. This, too, can lead to an increase in costs. Effective integration between social and health services and between primary health care and special care is a prerequisite for achieving savings and good care. Now that the Government’s social welfare model splits into countless parts with the selection of alternative social welfare centres and then with the provision of services with a payment voucher, how can this model be made to function as a coherent service chain between many different actors? Add to this the partial splitting of special medical care into customer vouchers, so how on earth does this whole work in an integrated way? Another cause for concern is that at the same time, our well-functioning special care may be broken up into parts and, at the same time, the remaining most demanding special care may become more expensive than it is today. Furthermore, the part of services once placed on the market will no longer be returned to the public. Mr President! The big threat is that the savings sought will only be achieved by increasing customer charges or redefining the service promise, i.e. by providing less publicly funded services than in the past and at a higher price. This, in turn, may lead to an increase in private health insurance and gradually to insurance-based social security. There is a risk of getting further and further away from a good and affordable Nordic solidarity-based social security model. At the same time, the government is refusing municipalities the right to provide services in full. All municipal social and health services are transferred from municipalities to regions that should create functional systems in less than two years. The government is about to give an insufficient six months when experts say that two more years are needed. In the opinion of the SDP, organisation and production should not be separated, as it has already been declared ineffective in many places. We too believe that we need wider shoulders to provide social and health services, but would it not be good to save what we have and build on it and not break our entire social and health service system and rebuild it from the very beginning? A region or region could be responsible for the social and health services of those on its territory, i.e. organising them. We also believe that they could mainly provide those services by using municipalities, the private sector and the third sector, at the discretion of the Commission. This would ensure integration and cooperation between other publicly produced services. Mr President! Last week, according to economist Bengt Holmström, it would have been good to try different social models in different regions. According to him, it is clear that this government reform will have unexpected consequences and will have to be corrected several times. According to Nobellist Holmström, there is also a risk that the service provider will accept healthier patients who will receive financial compensation but the expenses will be small. In some cases there may also be over-treatment and in others under-treatment. The model should therefore move towards more cost-based compensation for service providers. I hope that the government will listen even to the Finnish Nobel Prize for Economics, even though the opposition does not want to listen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u244	Mr President! Finland’s social and health services are obviously poor and expensive — no other conclusion can be drawn from the vigour with which the government wants to dismantle the current system of social services. In comparison, the Euro Health Consumer Index 2016 published a few months ago gives a surprising rating on the state of health services in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u249	Mr President! Finland needs a social welfare reform, but not a regional reform. And if I could be more specific: Finland needs a reform of health services, but not necessarily a reform of social services. The availability of social services is very good and there would be no need for such a reform — only to improve some of the practices, including the one-stop-shop principle and the elimination of such clear shortcomings that have been identified together. And that would be much, much cheaper than what is planned here. The regional reform will increase the administration, the cost and the municipal self-government. That's a lot of questions everyone's thinking about. Within the government, MEPs also wondered, particularly on the provincial side, what this would achieve in the end. When the reform of social and health services began some ten years ago, the aim was to provide smooth and cost-effective services, to ensure special care for all, to reduce health inequalities and to reduce red tape. And one of the most important goals was to stop cost growth with a certain delay in time. However, according to the expert opinions we have received, almost all the objectives are not achieved in this reform. This is an alarming message, and I think it would be sensible to go through these feedbacks and really think about how this works in practice. And if such a huge number of experts, some estimate that almost 80%, consider this reform to be impossible to implement in this way, then it should certainly provoke serious debate and intervention in all concerned. Mr President! The whole Finnish people, not only the opposition, have the impression that the reform now planned cannot be carried out within the timetable proposed by the government. Once again, many experts have made public the idea that the whole reform should be carried out in stages. It is still possible, and that is why, in this debate, too, many people have hoped and spoken and asked that reason should now prevail and not be obsessed. It is absolutely psychological violence to force, for example, the capital region and Uusimaa to change well-functioning practices in order to implement the new regional model. For 16 years I have been in Espoo Council and various cooperation bodies in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. For 12 years now, there has been a combination of the implementation of health services, centralised knowledge in different hospitals, significant benefits, tried privatisation of health centres — benefits have been achieved and the satisfaction of residents with the services is at a very high level. All the goals set by the government could be achieved by developing existing health services in cooperation with the private sector without massive national coercion. Mr President! However, it has become clear that the government is carrying out its reform as it has thought. So what do we have ahead of us? Quite a lot of ignorance, questions — people do not know what is actually happening on 1 January 2019 — uncertainty, some even say that there is total chaos ahead. But perhaps the biggest thing — this would be the most important thing to say — is the expectation of an increase in costs, the fact that, in the end, these sought-after cost savings with this model will not materialise. This should raise us to such a common debate that the citizens at that screen could say that there is a lot of action to be done, that now the Parliament has finally won its senses, the Members of Parliament and the Government together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u250	Mr President! First of all, I cannot fail to comment, Mr Laukkanen, on your speech. I believe that we also share ideas on the development of social and health services, but I would nevertheless like to say that I completely disagree with you on two fundamental fundamentals. Firstly, you said that Finland needed reform of social welfare and health services, but not regional reform. I myself again feel that, as I recall, during the last parliamentary term, we ended up with problems precisely because we were unable to build a model in which power and responsibility would have been transparently and transparently known to the public as regards the decision-making of their social and health services. A solution was therefore needed, in which decision-makers were elected to decide on matters relating to social and health services. After all, we have shared the view that we need wider shoulders to shoulder the responsibility for these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u257	I am not going to open a wider debate, but I think it is reasonable to give Mr Laukkanen an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u258	Mr President! Mr Saarikko quite well raised counterarguments here, and I am happy to respond to them. Firstly, when this reform started in the first place, the main problem for which it was being carried out was this huge inequality in the implementation, access to and cost of special medical care. This was the central objective that we were looking for: it would be important for every municipality to take responsibility for this special care. This was one of the key topics for discussion and I still think it is important that it should be implemented. Secondly, there is, of course, a lot of development in social services, but not to this extent, and certainly also the need for reform, but not to this extent and in the price category where we are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u259	We will return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u260	Mr President! The war reform talks, not for no reason. It is a major reform — so great that the previous governments did not achieve it. I've had enough talk. The most painful point of reform seems to be freedom of choice. The opposition and its supporters intimidate the freedom of choice on purpose, because it is a decision taken by the current government. I think intimidation is an exaggeration. In addition to criticism, solutions should also be found — including an option that is neither unconstitutional nor utopian. Some time ago, I read the SDP's Human Social Security brochure. It was quite interesting to read. It includes freedom of choice, i.e. private services, as does the government's model. However, the model of the SDP is clearly unconstitutional. It is essentially the same content as the municipality-based model that fell into the non-constitutional state in the winter of 2015. I think it is a good question to ask why the SDP offers a model that has already been declared unconstitutional and which is absolutely impossible to implement. Wasn't the Secretary of the SDP responsible for creating a fallen model? Freedom of choice will soon be a daily life for everyone with little money, and that is right. Until now, a private doctor has been admitted if you have had enough money in the account. Freedom of choice provides the right to change the supplier of the social services under conditions laid down by law. The service provider won't make a decision for you. Every taxpayer has the power to decide. In the future, you should vote with your feet if the previous service provider has been bad. Public access to the activities and finances of the companies operating in the sector will be reviewed. It is not easy on the basis of the current law on limited liability companies and publicity, but we must find a model for it. I welcome the fact that, under the new system, all companies providing social services will have to disclose their tax and financial information. The activities must always be transparent and transparent. Each of us, as a taxpayer, will also be able to choose a service provider who will pay his taxes to Finland and assume his social responsibility towards his employees. It's in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u263	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The need to finally implement the reform of social and health services is great. The government has committed a great deal of prestige to its social model, and it is not easy to move from its position. The opposition has been excluded from the preparation of the reform this period from the outset, so it is no big surprise that the opposition parties are not willing to listen to their criticisms. However, this criticism has now been accompanied by the best experts in the country. It would be time to listen, Prime Minister Sipilä and the government. Mr President! The Government's proposal for a social welfare reform has been returned to several parts, and it is not very easy to understand the whole. The issue is so huge and its impact on people's everyday lives is so great that we, as responsible decision-makers, should be better able to know what kind of model is finally coming. The main doubts lie in the proposal for freedom of choice. It is, in principle, a wrong procedure to put in place an incomplete and confusing model for statements, on which the Prime Minister has also stated that it will never come into force as such. Now more than 600 statements give a total blow to the freedom of choice model. The proposed freedom of choice will take us far from the original objectives of the reform. It does not reduce health and well-being differences, it does not curb cost growth, it does not provide sufficient conditions for regions to manage service production or service networks, and it poses a number of serious threats to the availability of services. The Government's freedom of choice model threatens to fragment services, which poses major challenges for information flow and care chains. Freedom of choice is increasing for people living in towns with low access to services. There is not necessarily a choice for rural areas. A major question mark in general is how to ensure that people have sufficient and correct information about the exercise of freedom of choice. For many and many different services, making choices is challenging, if not impossible. In terms of cost management and health and well-being differences, the reform should start with timely access to services and basic health care, effective care chains and prevention. The most significant reform in 100 years should be based on the needs of the person, i.e. the user of the services. We are now going ideologically on the terms of the market and creating a disproportionate regional area from the point of view of power policy, which is not appropriate for the organisation of services. At this rate, the services are threatening to end up in chaos. Mr President! We all have concerns about the availability and quality of social and health services. I'm sure we all want to improve access to the doctor. It can be invested in more than just a model presented by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u268	Mr President, värderade talman! Social- och halsovårdsreformen har inte beretts som sig bör, och nu pressas den igenom trots flera experts varningar. Speciellt oroliga är vi över den planerade valfriheten, dess innehåll och alldeles för snäva tidtabell. Många kommuner sköter nu sin social- och älsovård kostnadseffektivt, nära medborgaren och med tyngdpunkten på rådgivande verksamhet och den förebyggande vården. Nu blir kommunerna med Svarte Petter påhanden. De kommuner som hits scött sin älsovård kostnadseffektivt och haft pengar över för let viktig verksamhet blir effect reformen beroende av statlig finansiering och statsandlar. På vilket jätt motiverar det kommunerna att satsa på det halsofrämjande arbetet som enligt vård- och landskapslagen blir kvar på kommunens ansvar? Det behövs en social- och älsovårdsreform för att trygga alla medborgares Jämlika rättigheter till vård. Men en trygg vård kan inte vara föremål för en ideologisk kamp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u269	Mr. Speaker! The main objectives of the social reform have already been highlighted many times in this debate, but one of the objectives of the whole history of social reform has been to find wider shoulders for the provision of services. Now we've found those shoulders, which means the provinces are organizing. More than 200 organisers will be replaced by 18 provinces. The intermediate issue calls for a broad public responsibility for services. It's coming. Public provinces organise and manage social and health care in their regions. They have a thumbscrew, they have the opportunity to give instructions, they have the opportunity to accept a producer or they have the opportunity to reject another producer, unless its activities meet the needs of the organisers and customers. Mr President! Until now, we have had the customer's freedom of choice in the choice of public health care. It has been possible to choose a health centre, its unit, and even a special medical hospital. Well, that's good for the client. As the ongoing reform now also enables individuals, foundations, organizations to be selected, I believe this is even better for the customer. From the customer's point of view, the choice is also relatively simple: select the basic-site centre. For four out of five customers, this choice is enough. That one in five needs more. For him, a public producer, i.e. a regional business, makes a management or service plan, manages itself according to the plan, but here, too, the customer still has the option of choosing the producer with a customer voucher or a personal budget. Mr President! Although this system of freedom of choice is customer-friendly, there are certainly some tricky points to this reform: the incorporation of public producers, the competition in quality, the effective control of producers, the correctness of the funding of different producers, the exclusion of such cream peeling, the real possibility for small companies to enter the market and the retention of tax money for large companies at home. They are, of course, issues that are probably still under discussion. Perhaps the most criticism has come from this tight schedule. There is plenty of time for regional reform itself, but there is a great deal of administrative and information technology and bureaucracy in the exercise of freedom of choice, and that is where the timetable would really be on hold. It is a great thing that the law now allows the provinces to move either to accelerated or delayed freedom of choice. Mr President! Finally, I would like to ask a question about the difference between expertise and policy. The expert is very familiar with the current situation in his own area of expertise, possibly with scientific grounds for the possible development of his own field. The expert shall form his own opinion on the basis of these facts. But in politics we have to think for the benefit of all our citizens, we have to think about the sustainability and long-term survival of our citizens, we have to make choices, we have to dare to reform and we have to be visionary because no expertise can predict.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u275	Mr President, värderade talman! We could talk about this a lot, but maybe briefly: I'm most annoyed by the fact that you're saying one thing, but then you're clearly doing it differently. For example, we talk beautifully about patient safety and reducing health inequalities. However, as part of this large package, the aim is to weaken the central hospital on the coast of Ostrobothnia, which is at the forefront of many studies in patient safety. I cannot understand whose patient safety in this country is improved by weakening the best central hospital in terms of patient safety. As far as health inequalities are concerned, should the aim not be to improve the health status of all Finns instead of just talking about reducing them? Or are we also satisfied that the differences are narrowing as a result of the weakening of health services in some groups? I don't know. There are also some fine words about the crackdown on standards. It was now heard that this package also includes controls. I don't know what that has to do with it. There is also a great deal of talk about freedom to try, but at the same time we want to ban, for example, the government's own employment objective, which has long since been achieved on the coast of Ostrobothnia, from maintaining, with its own money, a system of special medical care that is absolutely part of the ecosystem of companies competing in global markets. This type of political Excel table management at national level is extremely inappropriate for today's global economy, where regions and business clusters compete globally. In other words, these regions compete globally — not everything is worth looking at nationally. I have also wondered many times why there is no attempt to assess these big government proposals even with a view to the future operating conditions of private companies, other than social enterprises, in particular the export industry. I do not know what the government thinks we will finance these services in the future, whatever the model, if the impact on the business environment is not of interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u276	Mr President! Why reform of social welfare and health care? The recent comment by Mr Strand that the provinces have their own money seems rather strange — in this context, we are seeking uniform access to services throughout the country. Several international experts have highlighted Finland's well-organised package. According to the European Consumer Survey Euro Health 2015, Finland provides the best value for money in health care. Our problem is poor functioning primary health care, and you can't get to your doctor on the same day. There is regional and socio-economic inequality in access to basic services. The main reason is the inappropriate allocation of resources. In the first decade of this millennium, private doctors and occupational health care both increased their number of doctors by 50 to 60 per cent, special care by about 20 per cent, but basic health care at all. Thus, doctors and other professionals were guided by employers’ and employees’ organisations to care for healthy, working people whose life management was in order by society’s decisions. Due to the shortage of doctors that they experienced, municipalities were trapped by backpack companies and, in particular, the excessive pricing of their on-call services was acutely affecting municipalities. So we have to do something. The main objectives of the social welfare reform in the Government Programme are to improve the availability and strong coordination of the services needed by the citizen, and the means of achieving it are the integration of services, the transition to a single channel of funding and the increased freedom of choice of the citizen in services. Mr President! European experts evaluating the Finnish social welfare reform found that freedom of choice is a matter to be sought but requires compatible information systems so that, at least at regional level, patient information is available to all, both small and large, health and social services producers. Now we are very far from that goal. I agree with Minister Rehula that the introduction of freedom of choice must only take place once health information systems are integrated. The challenges of the integration of the social reporting system are many times greater. Another concern is the measurement and reporting of the quality and effectiveness of service production, its criteria and costs at national and regional level. We don't have a system for this. The region needs to know in a timely manner that service providers operate in a uniform and agreed manner when providing services. Sub-treatment is the greatest danger: the necessary diagnoses are not made and social services are not implemented. Mr President! We therefore have problems with the reform of the information systems. Despite the problems, progress must be made and the problems must be resolved jointly. A key issue for discussion has been the timetable for reform. As we heard from Minister Rehula, the separation of the start between the provinces will take place and the time span for implementation will be extended. First, the starting provinces act as pilots, and their activities must be closely monitored and analysed, the unsolicited effects identified must be addressed immediately, the legislation must take immediate corrective measures to achieve an integrated set of services to be sought and built around the citizen. In the implementation, our Nobel Prize winner Holmström also recommended learning in his speech in Parliament last week. Strong-acting integration is the core of citizen-oriented and cost-effective operations. Promoting well-being and health and self-care play a strong role in this. For this reason, cooperation between the municipality and the province is absolutely necessary to shift the focus of social services to preventive and preventive measures on disease and crisis management. In insurance-based schemes such as Central Europe, the financier keeps the reins tight. In practice, Finland is an insurance-based system: the state and, in the future, the provinces are insurers. If the county does not have the means to monitor producers, the costs will get out of hand. Services must be provided on a uniform basis with health benefits, as the demand for public health services is endless. I would like to reiterate: the county responsible for organising must have a uniform reporting system for the production of services and a monitoring system when the freedom of choice of care and services is introduced — under these conditions, therefore, towards implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u277	Mr President! The debate on the reform of social and health care services has been movingly unanimous that everyone here shares the key objectives of this reform, that is to say that we want to reduce the social and health inequalities between Finns, that we also want to achieve cost savings, and that the key means for this is the integration of services. It is great that we are in agreement on these objectives. Then the key question is whether this government model is now implementing the objectives on which we agree. So that this model does not achieve these desired objectives, only politically, and I can say that when you ask the experts for an opinion, the answer is quite unambiguous. Now the hundreds of commentators who have given statements to this government's proposal on the freedom of choice law have simply gone through the pitfalls and duubios associated with this government's proposal, and this opinion by the experts is very eloquent. It is strange, therefore, that when the opposition parties here have accused the opposition parties of intimidation, the only intimidation that I believe involves is that the government parties are afraid to believe the opinion of these experts. After all, here the opposition has echoed one of these opinions from experts and instead of being arrogant about them, it would be worth taking the advice. Here the government parties have also accused the opposition of false claims. It is quite strange to blame the opposition for false claims when they are taken directly from the government's own motion. It has now also been seen that the government's proposal itself is already justified, which is why it is not appropriate to regulate this legislation. I don't know if something like that has ever been encountered here before. Then there has also been a lot of reference here to this political credibility that political credibility will suffer if the reform of social security is not carried out now as the government has wanted it to. But if you ask the other way around, how much political credibility suffers from making the wolf and the second and not being sure what will happen? There is no need to remind you of what happened when, from the beginning of the year, the basic payment of the income support was transferred to Kela. Even then, it was assured that this schedule will work and that everything will work perfectly. Then it turned out differently, so I would be quite careful not to make a bad reform, which will then be visible to the citizens. Now that this debate has led you to hear what changes the government has made to its original proposal, it must still be said that not all problems have gone away. It is still difficult to see any benefit in the fact that our public production is being forced to company, which only brings more and more friction costs, due to the radical increase in the number of operators. I have still not even found the answer to the question of how to say with heart that the timetable after these changes will be kept — when comparing these statements from the regions with the fact that, for example, these preparatory work in some regions has still been very limited — and, overall, that this model now responds to the original objectives of reducing health and well-being inequalities and also cost savings. That is why it would be a great wisdom to accept not only the criticisms and advice of the rapporteurs but also the suggestions for improvement that have been made here in the speeches of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u278	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health services has been taking place for over a decade. This reform has always come across something, generally not to take care of the constitutional requirement to implement democracy in such a way that not only responsibility but also duty rests with elected representatives. In fact, at the end of the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave a very clear report on the fact that there are three ways to implement this reform: on a municipal or provincial basis, or by taking over the whole of special care. I think it makes sense for Finland to move on to this European model, where almost the rest of Europe is: a regional model or a regional one, an elected one. It ensures that we do not have to make the biggest municipal reform in history, which the previous government was prepared to take to 70 municipalities in Finland and wipe out quite a few municipalities on the map.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u281	Mr President! The sitting government is mocking Parliament, us parliamentarians. I have sat in this Chamber for more than 5 hours, asked three times the same question as whether cities can be the producers of social and health services in the future, after this reform, or not. I have not received any answers from the ministers on this question, despite the fact that I have repeatedly asked this very simple question, which the ministers should also be able to answer. The second question I have asked several times in this Chamber — and I am not the only one — concerns this timetable: what is the real timetable for this reform? We have been told here today about the ministerial box that this slip of time is six months before and six months after the 2019 fold, but for justifiable reasons you may then be able to continue to implement this reform. I would now like to know what this real transition period is, whether it is six months, until July 2019, or whether it is even two years, as the future Minister Saarikko on that side of the hall earlier called out that up to two years the provinces could have a transitional period for this new model. On these two points, I would like to receive the answers I have asked. I raised this first question because last week Minister Risikko flashed and suggested that large cities could still be service providers. So this proposal came from the government's own ranks, and we in large cities, including Tampere, are currently confused about what the real angle of this reform is, whether municipalities can be service providers in the future or not. A very simple question for which I do expect answers from the government. I very much hope that Mr Ruhula, who, fortunately, is still here today, will be able to answer these questions. Not so complicated, two questions: a timetable, whether it is actually six months, whether it can be two years, and then the question of whether municipalities can still be service providers in the future. In particular, this role of the big cities makes me wonder because, in the case of smaller municipalities, this reform is not in fact so important. More than 200 municipalities already manage social welfare and health care services in cooperation with other municipalities, for example, the responsible municipality model or the joint municipal board model, but the big cities still have shoulders, strength and, at present, all of these services, both the responsibility for organisation and the responsibility for production, in their own hands. That is why this issue is particularly important from the point of view of our cities. Is this an election act, that before municipal elections such things are flashed, but then in reality, when they are asked here in Parliament, they are simply not wanted, able or able to answer. What the answer is, that is what I want to know, and for so long in this Chamber I am hoping that I will get this answer on this side of the day. The original objectives of the reform of social welfare and health care were simple and were jointly accepted by all parties in this Chamber. These included reducing welfare and health inequalities, improving the equality and accessibility of services and curbing cost development. These were the objectives we agreed on together last season, and now the government has forgotten about them. Instead, it is carrying out regional reform, not just social and health care reform, but regional reform, putting the state in the renovation of the regional government and everything else, just as this whole of social and health care had not had enough work to do. Yes, it would be, and we would very much like to do so, but on that side, unfortunately, the government has rather chosen this privatisation model, the incorporation model, the market-based approach. Instead of these goals, we will have the Bee, Attendo, and Health House. Here representatives of the government parties have said earlier that there is also positive feedback from experts on this reform. I would be interested to know whether these positive contributions have perhaps come from former special assistant Turuse, whether they have come from former Minister Laura Rädy or whether they have come from former MP Lasse Männistö. All these people are currently working in these private health companies, which will in future, with public tax money, produce an even greater share of our shared services. That is what this reform is all about. I would like to receive an answer on these points from Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u282	Mr President! The Finnish welfare society, this Finnish social model, is changing to its foundations. From the outset, our system has been built on the basis of municipalities. Local authorities have chosen their decision-makers, decision-makers have decided how statutory and self-decided services are organised, produced and financed. The growth phase of our welfare society was also implemented through cooperation between municipalities and municipalities. Although Finland is sometimes called a welfare state, well-being is nevertheless performed in municipalities and joint municipal authorities. The municipalities have been even more so: they have been the cornerstone of Finnish democracy. Experience and trust acquired in municipal tasks have also been the most common route to other political power. Now that democracy is being challenged and called into question around the world, we should strengthen the foundations of our own democracy. Mr President! The biggest change in the history of the Finnish welfare society is now being presented. Half of municipal tasks are transferred from people to remote, new levels of government, regions. Great reforms should be made on the basis of a great consensus. The consensus on the government reform proposal is far removed. The opposition is on the sidelines — the interim issue before us is an indication that our vote is merely an objection. Even the government parties have no consensus on the reform. Both the centre and the assembly have their own goals. The Centre wants to ensure that the regional government created by the threat of the collapse of the government is implemented and that as much power as possible is concentrated in the provinces. The most important thing for the assembly is that the services can talk about freedom of choice. Well-being, democracy, they're of no interest to anyone. The policy chosen by the government is particularly regrettable because the opposition would be able to support the reform work. There is no opposition to freedom of choice and there is no desire to exclude companies from care and care services. The only question is that the model now outlined is not cost-effective and does not achieve the objective of reducing health inequalities. The opposition also understands that the provision of services requires an adequate population base. Instead, it is difficult to accept that an additional level of government will be built in the name of reform. Violent cities, such as Oulu and other large cities, have to hand over the services they provide elsewhere. All they have left is debts and responsibilities. In turn, the financing base for the new administrative level will have to choose either a tax law that increases the overall tax rate or a state financing system that distinguishes between decision-making and financial responsibility. Mr President! There is growing concern among ordinary people about the future of social and health services. People's concerns need to be understood. The Board of Directors' decision to transfer the basic part of the income support from the municipality to Kela failed very badly. People have not been given decisions on income support, rents have been cut off, medicines have not been bought and food is at the end of the day. What if the social reform goes into chaos in the same way? What if the financial statements don't hold up? What if other important things have been forgotten when the focus has been on building a regional government staircase? There is agreement in this country that reform must be carried out. It is time to move ahead with something that has already been prepared under three or four governments. There is no need to delay decisions, but to set priorities, services first.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u283	Mr President! Today I would have liked ministers to have been able to explain more about the content of the Act on customer fees related to the social welfare reform, as it will enter into force on 1 January 2019. I think it is a bad thing that we do not have it in this other piece of legislation. Apparently it, or some drafts of that law, is not coming until the summer. Customer fees are an integral part of what we have in the middle of a mess at the moment. The fees for social services are high internationally in Finland. The situation of the people was exacerbated by the government itself by authorising municipalities to increase these customer fees by 30% last year. The opportunity was taken advantage of, and in many municipalities the voting decisions of the government parties raised those fees. In my own hometown of Mikkeli, this means that more than one in ten people in Mikkeli have missed a doctor because of a lack of money. This information came from the city's financial statements, which we discussed yesterday in the City Board. I would like to know whether the government is going to reduce the charges for social services, which is absolutely essential for access to human services. You can't talk about freedom of choice if only those with good income can afford to use the services. Now that the government is talking about private and public spending on the same line, will payments also be placed on the same line and what line will be taken as the starting point? About EUR 50 to 100 is a private visit to a doctor today, so it should be a brisk discount. Mr President! Will there therefore also be a reduction in the fees for future private social services centres and how will this be financed? Or is it intended to take as a starting point the current private payments, that is to say, to raise our current public charges with real briskness? There are no health centre fees in Helsinki. There may be other municipalities that don't inherit it. So what happens to people here? Will they continue to be allowed free of charge to visit social welfare centres, including those run by private service providers? This is what people deserve to know. Customer fees are crucial for access to services and freedom of choice. Because of today’s high fees, many, many people struggle between going to the doctor and buying food, and many people have to live in service homes without services because of their high cost. We have a good example at hand from the beginning of this year of what happens when people’s health care is blocked by payments. With the increase in the price of antidiabetics, people have not bought them. The situation is currently endangering patient safety, is inhumane against people with diabetes and will increase the overall cost of healthcare in the future due to exposure to additional diseases. The cost of healthcare for diabetics is about EUR 1.3 billion per year, of which EUR 883 million is due to the treatment of supplementary diseases caused by diabetes, and prevention of these costs is essential to curb the increase in the cost of diabetes. Ten years from now, we'll see. The effects of the cold policies of the Sipilä government on human health. Mr President! At the end of the day, the service voucher is also a good example of how only in theory it allows everyone to choose. In practical life, the ownership of the service voucher has often been set to such a high level that low- and middle-income people are unable to make use of the banknotes. There is a need to change these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u284	Mr President! A couple of weeks ago, when I was travelling around the province in municipal elections, I was able to talk to a man who introduced Pek to us today about the subject of freedom of choice. Pekka, who works as an entrepreneur, is one of those who took part in the choice experiment in my home town of Jyväskylä, and he wanted to give encouraging feedback on his experiences. As a result of the experiment, the man who suffered occasionally from back pain had received help without waiting in line, the quality of the service had been first-class, the absence of illness critical to the sole entrepreneur had been reduced — all of the goals that each party wanted to achieve at least at some point in the social welfare reform. Mr Pekka's biggest concern was that the desire of the red-green opposition to destroy freedom of choice would be fulfilled. He found it wonderful why the parties that are promoting small people’s affairs do not want to provide poor Finns with the same service as the rich or those who are currently using occupational health care. Mr President! Unfortunately, the answer to this question has not been heard in today's debate. Instead, the air has been thick with the familiar fear of having to choose, forced-to-ship, abandoned elderly people, and so on. This aspect of freedom of choice legislation has not been put forward. Let us take an example of this so-called fear of coercion: What is the significance of what form of company in a social welfare centre for people in need of services? Even now, 800,000 people in good health enjoy health care provided by Attendos and Pihlajalinna, and no one is calling for a change. Companying is an administrative measure that guarantees that producers are on the same line and that the necessary information is public to the customer. Is it not also in the interests of us all to have transparent social services from the economic point of view? Is that not just one of the key tools for eliminating the frequent cream peeling threat here? Another and more important tool to prevent cream peeling is the fine-tuning of the capitulation system in the freedom of choice system. This refers to the setting of framework conditions for the competition of social welfare producers for patients. This work is in progress at the best time and its starting point is clear: a different amount of money is followed by a basic healthy patient than by a long-term ill elderly person. It ensures that treatment is not focused on just one group but on everyone and that no group is over-or under-treated. Mr President! The last point to make is the most cheekless argument of the opposition that the new system is forced to choose and that its consequences, for example for many elderly people or groups in need of special care, would be to abandon them. I hope you on the green left don't believe this either. In the new system, freedom of choice is also not. If sticking to the present is enough, no one will demand a change. In fact, the care of elderly people in need of continuous care is facilitated through personal budgeting. However, on one point, Mr President, I am also concerned about this freedom of choice, I admit that. Indeed, I am concerned about how well we can make the information produced by patients and social welfare producers move within the social welfare system. Free circulation and up-to-date information is critical that we, as users of services, can make sensible choices. Similarly, companies providing social services must not become obstacles to the movement of information from new regional borders. These are issues in which the government should be extremely vigilant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u285	Mr President, Herr Talman! After all, the original objective of the social welfare reform was to correct what does not work and at the same time try not to break what is right in our health system, and unfortunately it is going to be the exact opposite. It is also sad that, even here today, quite a few people have spoken that the most important thing is to be ready. That's scary talk, 'cause this is a lot of security. President! Only private health service companies seem to take a positive view of this model presented by the government. It is easy to understand why they are so positive about this. This is an annual business of between EUR 8 and 12 billion — a very large account coming to these private health services companies, and it is perfectly understandable that they are very interested in this. There are a lot of people who are critically or even negative about them, and they could actually be categorized into five different categories: The first category is the government itself. In many respects, the government’s own bill justifies all the problems that can arise with the adoption of this law. Yle’s journalist Tiina Merikanto reported and summed it up very well: she wrote that it is a draft law that explains why the law should not be enacted. Among those who are critical of the second category are the municipalities and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, i.e. those who are currently managing these services and who know the challenge and all the problems associated with the organisation of these services. Of those who are critical of the third category, 93% are social welfare and health managers. 93% of social welfare and health managers are critical of the government's model. Fourthly, more than 80% of nurses — i.e. those who should carry out the whole reform — are sceptical or critical of the government’s model. And the fifth category is made up, nothing less than professors, experts, ministries, the Supreme Administrative Court and so on and so on. Against this background, only one conclusion can be drawn: it is not a model based on knowledge, analysis and health inequalities or good health services supported by experts; it is a political agreement, as has often been the case today. Mr President! Many here today have also referred to the examples of Sweden. Many refer to these examples and experiences, very few know them. For ten years I have been following very closely what has happened in Sweden and this could be summed up in the fact that the social imbalance in health centres has been strengthened. Let's take a look at the facts. Between 2010 and 2011, 190 private but publicly funded health centres have been established in Sweden. Well, what are these health centers born to? 88% of these health centres have been created in areas where the level of care and services is already good or very good. 58% of these were born in three major cities: Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Not a single health centre, i.e. not one private-owned public health centre, has been created in an area where the level of care is low or very low, not a single health centre in the areas where it is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u288	Mr President! Freedom of choice offers alternatives to public health care. This means a significant increase in the rate of access to treatment throughout Finland. It is clear that this is a major change and represents a major challenge for management and information management. Without a determined strengthening of both, it will not be possible at the same time to speed up access to health services and to curb the increase in costs. The proposal will create a better financial framework for equal access to services. Once the reform has been completed, the information will pass from one operator to another. The "Knowledge Follows People" principle facilitates treatment. The province is a controller who receives all information. Significant investments are made in information systems. A key element of the reform is the integration of basic health care and social services into a smooth service chain. According to the impact assessments, this is essential for reducing welfare and health inequalities. Integration of primary health care and social services creates good opportunities to effectively reduce differences in well-being and health compared to the current situation. Mr President! The government parties have a common will to bring the social reform to the finish line. It is good that the entry into force of the reform is staggered, taking account of the readiness of each province to reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u289	Mr President! Those who have lived in Uusimaa for a long time know that in that sense there is no Uusimaa to form a unified province, as many other provinces in Finland have: Häme, Savo, Karelia and so on. In fact, Uusimaa is made up of four regions: the capital region, which consists of four municipalities, the eastern Uusimaa, which has a Swedish-speaking population in part, the Western Uusimaa, which has a Swedish-speaking population in part, and the railway-side up from Vantaa to Hyvinkää. The fact that there is a seven-day newspaper everywhere in these regions — even a single regional newspaper — reflects the fact that the region is differentiated. People know each other in the capital region and so on in those areas, but it is difficult to know beyond the area. However, in this system of 18 provinces it has been considered that the two largest parliamentary districts in the country, Helsinki and Uusimaa, can be combined to become an area of 1.5 million people. If the regional elections are held at the same time as the municipal elections, it is obvious that a candidate from Helsinki for the council and the county council will be able to attend to potential voters on the street, in squares or in Turku or through newspaper announcements at the same time. But whoever leaves Mäntsälä will leave in quite the back way — if anyone else leaves Mäntsälä as a candidate but possibly Antti Rinne. The threshold for the number of votes to be elected will rise considerably from the number of parliamentary elections, which will probably be around 3000 to 4400 votes, to 6000 to 8000. No party candidate in Uusimaa's spending limits will receive that amount from his own territory, but at the same time as he is campaigning in municipal elections, he would have to go around the rest of the Uusimaa to collect votes. Do you have enough money for a lot of people? I don't think that's enough. Is there enough desire? I don't really believe in that either. If it is now to be integrated into one constituency, it should be divided into four parts, each with its own quota, so that regional democracy can be accepted. In this overall category, Helsinki-Espoo—Vantaa’s decision-makers will be able to decide on a pot of around 3 billion euros, so that the rest of the region’s inhabitants will practically have no chance of affecting its decision-making. It seems trivial until we start to wonder which properties will be closed down and which properties will be left to the municipalities to decide after three plus one years. We will see how the smallest rural communities in the province will cope with this situation. I suspect they will not come, which is why we should seriously consider this division of constituencies in order to safeguard the conditions for democratic action. There has been talk here of freedom of choice, which is actually part of the competition. We could now take, for example, the East German car market compared to the West German car market. In East Germany, Trabant and Wartburgk were the best things you could get from the store after ten years of waiting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u294	President! Somehow I feel that the opposition is upset that this government will eventually bring the wars to an end. It is true that the model is not perfect, but it must not be in order to justify the fall of the whole project. This mid-term debate reveals, when this debate has been very passionate, that this is, as it were, routine work, what the opposition must do on the day of the elections. It is true that the model is not perfect, that many things are worrying and that many things could be even better. Not a representative The magazine is probably alone with that idea when you compared this with the reform of comprehensive school, which left the north — I think the latest Channel magazine has a similar article on this issue. There are many other things that could be different. But I'm glad I saw you. In the course of the process, there has often been talk of cream peeling. I hope that in some way the government will do cream peeling, combine different good things so that they can come true. There is no doubt that there are good elements to freedom of choice, even though threats cannot be ignored with a shoulder scratch. However, attempts have also been made to eliminate the threats associated with this freedom of choice, for example to prevent tax evasion, as well as customer choice. It must also be remembered all the time that freedom of choice does not have the full volume of social services, on the contrary, although it is suggested otherwise. The most important thing is that people always receive service, regardless of the size of the wallet or the place where they live. President! It has come a long way and much has been achieved during this journey. Our health care system is a wonderful model for the world at international level. It is fair and effective, but there are many elements in it that it has also lived in places of its time. There have been wonderful things that today do not meet the challenges of modern reality. We must have the courage to look ahead and create a system that is always open to repairs, but which nevertheless has a long line, so that we will have a fair social and health system in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u295	All right, next up, Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u296	Mr President! The word 'chaos' has been in quite a number of speeches here, and it was said in one of the speeches that there was chaos caused by the incorporation of companies. Companying is a pretty simple thing, starting a company and questions related to it. Where we have issues to resolve, which have a fundamental impact on the success of implementation, the fact that the ict is in good shape, the information passes, and the government has its own notes to make progress. Secondly, in the case of maternity clinics, a basic decision has been made that the maternity clinic can be in a social centre that is private, or a social centre that is public. The province will decide so that the whole of family services can be complete. We have Article 15 in the Health Care Act, which defines the content of child health care services. As a follow-up to many speeches and concerns about how the services will be in the future: The content of the services comes from substance legislation. We will continue to have the Act on Elderly Services, the Health Care Act, the Social Welfare Act, the Act on Family Care, the Child Welfare Act, the laws on the status and rights of the patient and the customer and so on. Here it comes, and we will continue to have such legislation. Then the market and the companies. What will happen to SMEs? With certainty, the use of banknotes, the introduction of a personal budget, is the best possible option for SMEs. We have written a text in the draft law in the consultation which allows SMEs to be involved in the production of social services. An attempt has been made to write that way, as far as the law and the articles are to be trusted. Changes in financing: Here Mr Kiuru asked about regional funding about three hours ago. One fundamental change to the current state from which we are changing to the future is that we currently have an expenditure-based model for social security expenditure. Expenditure is generated by tax euros and customer fees are partly paid. In future, we will be heading towards a financing model based on a need-based approach. In some areas, that government proposal, which already exists in the Parliament, has a minus sign, and one can meditate on what it may be due to when the future financing model is, among other things, related to age and disease. Customer fees: One part of the social security is that the future of the public operator and the private operator is on the same track. This means that customer fees are also equal. This means that — whether it is tens of euros or hundreds of euros from the starting point — the starting point is that every Finn can continue to be equally involved in the services without being an obstacle to customer charges. We're on some schedule to get rid of the sv compensation. We have pure public-funded social services with customer fees, we have pure private-funded social services. The working group has started work on this in mid-February. The working group has until the end of this year. The bill should be waited for Parliament in the spring of 18. In response to concerns about staff: support for change is absolutely central. Firstly, those regions which are already well under way have been able and are able to involve the staff in that very basic level of preparation. Those who still have a little more work to do on the way towards this future model can only hope that the staff will be involved. North Karelia is an example of a province where the personnel were actively involved during the three years. If there has been a common goal between the parties, it has been that we are building social integration. Then it has been argued here that the government has the courage to respond to criticism. Firstly, with regard to the timetable, it has already been stated several times today that the freedom of choice legislation will enter into force on 1 January 2019 — point. The legislation on freedom of choice will enter into force on that date. Secondly, we will have provinces that start earlier, we will have provinces that start later, and then, for justified reasons, if there is any risk of equality being achieved, there may be more time for implementation on request in exceptional circumstances. Then the question is whether the municipalities can be producers: Just as, for example, the Prime Minister has said in the Democratic newspaper over the past week, the municipalities are not involved in production. It has been discussed many times in the preparation, assessments, risk assessments. Our preparations have progressed along the path that municipalities will not be involved in this production in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u297	Mr President! In this debate, however, there have been many directions in which this whole has been rolled over, and when this debate began within the government, these five special areas of responsibility have been discussed to a great extent: hospital districts with a university hospital. The idea — at least in my opinion — was that this whole reform should be based on these, but then, with the political debate, we are in this situation. As far as maternity clinic services are concerned, when these chains are so strong in municipalities from maternity clinics to early education, now, if they come under different actors in such a way as to have different employers there, there will be a lot of this break. And that is what I see as a big risk of how the production of their child health clinic services can be achieved in such a way that they are so well integrated that they really work, but that remains to be seen. In some municipalities, services will be weakened. In many places they are currently organized very well. Now that responsibility for organizing is transferred to that province, and they do not really know what the end result is. Yesterday morning at the Morning TV, the change director of Uusimaa said that this could not possibly work on this schedule. He is therefore a very central influence leading the whole process in the Uusimaa region. He said this couldn't possibly work. Well, then, President, a few things about the various deficits that this proposal contains. Firstly, there is a democratic deficit. In the region of Uusimaa, only a few large cities will have their representatives in this new elected administration. Everyone else is left to lick their noses: there is no way to influence them after the election. Then there will be an economic deficit. This will not achieve those goals for a long, long time, perhaps never, as many experts have said. In some areas there is a service deficit, because it is not only possible to provide these services through the province in the way they are now. Then there's a time gap. This is not enough time. Maybe the most important thing is this lack of information. The databases are in no way ready to carry out this whole reform. This coordination is not yet complete. This is perhaps the most important and expensive part of this whole reform. And then what is really significant is this asset-sharing gap, which is certainly creating huge distortions, especially in the case of the big cities, which have built a lot of hospitals, health centres. They are new and in good condition and, according to the model now presented, only three years will be reimbursed. After three years, it will not be known how this distribution of assets will take place. I can imagine that these big cities will not be very sensitive to such an agreement without clear information. If you consider the investment of 150 million in Espoo Hospital: who will ultimately pay for it to the City of Espoo? So there's a lot of shortages. Yet, I sincerely wish this would succeed, but these facts speak of something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u298	Mr President! As I said in my previous speech, there is enough to say on this issue that I will continue to deal with these issues in this speech and perhaps in the next one. So I have already commented on the debate here today and on the process of the last period and now perhaps more on this state of affairs of the present reform and its challenges. Here, Mr President, a number of experts have been quoted several times today, who have stressed, in particular, perhaps in relation to its main objective, the difficulty of achieving this objective, and that is a lot of talk about integration. According to experts, this model will be very challenging to implement this integration and achieve these goals set by the government with this reform. Indeed, it seems that the doors will increase and indeed that service guidance mentioned by the government will be needed so that people can somehow reach their destination in this diverse jungle of bills and various service providers. This is a very big challenge for this social integration, and I believe that this challenge will be recognised and recognised by the social experts here too. We have talked a lot about this choice. The opportunity to choose is, of course, an important objective, but it has not been the main objective of this reform over the years, and it is not, in fact, the government, if the government sees the government programme, the main objective, but the other objectives have taken precedence over this choice. But now, along the way, things have changed, and, as we know and as I have already mentioned in this debate, there is no doubt that we are facing challenges such as basic health care in terms of access to care. That is precisely why, at least last season, we chose together and made a model in which the objective of social integration could be better safeguarded than in this model. And why the social integration? Because it is also a way to get prevention in order. This situation has already been mentioned here today, in which we are currently, in many of the studies, with around 20% of our citizens spending about 80% of our resources. This will therefore also have a significant cost impact if we can manage things in a preventive way. That is why there is justifiable fear that, because of the problems of basic health care, we are now going to end up making a total turmoil in this whole field of social protection. President! I would also like to talk about a subject that has been less on the agenda here today, and that is the fragmentation of knowledge or the fragmentation of knowledge. For decades we have been building this welfare society together, and in particular social and health care services. We have created skills, and this competence, measured by many indicators, has appeared in international studies, but also to us citizens as a very high-quality and efficient system, for example in special care as a high-quality staff competence, the exploitation of research data and so on. And now my fear is that this long-established knowledge will also be broken down with this reform. This obligation to enter into a partnership will increase even the fierce competition between the various players on the part of the experts, in particular the experts. In my opinion, this break-up of skills poses particularly high risks. This is also linked to education in social and health care, especially at university level, and this concern is also due to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u299	Mr President! It took more than six hours, four times to ask the same question, but at the end of the day we had the answer to the question whether cities could be service providers or not. Minister Ruhula just told me in that toilet that municipalities cannot be service providers. In other words, last week's presentation by Minister Risikko, about which there was a lot of talk in the press, this departure of the coalition in the last few metres before this debate on the interim issue, was nothing but air. There was never a situation like this when big cities were given the opportunity to produce services, as it were. This is a big question for big cities. So this was all air. Four times this simple question had to be asked before an answer was received. The big cities cannot be service providers in this government model in the future, so Minister Rehula to us in this Chamber after a good six-hour debate then finally agreed to tell us. There is still a little confusion about this timetable. That was the second question that I have already asked on several occasions, and I have not been the only one. So now that the government has presented a model that six months before 1 January 2019 and six months after 1 January 2019 may be this slide in this transition, I asked whether this slide could actually be as long as two years, if, just as Minister Rehula has said here, for a legitimate reason the provinces are seeking this extension. That is what I would like to get an answer for now as to whether it can actually be two years. As chairman of the Tampere City Council, I really am interested in this role of big cities in the provision of services. If I could get another answer to that, I would be very grateful. However, it is good that the ministers are still here in the Chamber and that answers were finally received.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u300	And then we take Secretary Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u301	Mr President! Thank you for tonight. There has been a very good debate here and a lot of questions have been raised, and we have also been able to answer them. I personally consider this freedom of choice to be a very important part of this social reform. It is very good that we have now put this social and health care sector on the wider agenda, that is what it has been aimed at and precisely that this should now be done to ensure that access to services is maintained by means of freedom of choice, greater freedom of choice, more operators. With this model of freedom of choice we are genuinely gaining freedom of choice, but we are also getting that confirmation of these basic services. And that is what I am very happy about, because although this will certainly cost you in the early stages, when more players come, then it will save money on the long run, to reduce costs by strengthening this basic level at that specific level. That's what we were trying to do last season, but as we've heard here, it didn't go quite well. But here's a new business. I also think that the freedom of choice model is important because we can actually secure local services now, because there is always a risk that services will focus when we start to think about them more closely, and there is also a risk that services will concentrate when the administration is centralised. But with this we also ensure those local services, which is a good thing. This is where the representative brought the question of the role of the municipalities. There has already been a reply from Minister Rehula, but since it mentioned my name, I would now like to come to this for everyone to say what it was about last week. When we consider in that group of ministers how we would be able to ensure — when we received that information about the doors and windows — that this transfer will be made smoothly in a situation where the province has not yet been completed in such a way that everyone there is ready to accept this war,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u304	Mr President! When we talk about the Sote reform, we have been given the impression that everything in Finland is at a disadvantage. This is not the case; we have many excellent services, and one of these is maternity and child health clinics. We've all been to a maternity clinic in our lives. Child health clinics have been a part of the everyday life of Finnish children and families since the 1920s, founded by Honorable Archaeologist Arvo Yllä. Child health clinic services are precisely those low-threshold services that are generally appreciated and are not wanted out. Child health clinics are very accessible, including home visits, desired services for families with children. Many of the name-collection dramas have been done in municipalities for the preservation of maternity clinics when the municipalities are about to abolish them. Child health clinics manage to reach practically all families with children, which is also important in terms of public health. They provide early support, advice and preventive services. Thanks to their impressive activities and services, maternity and child health clinics play a key role in promoting the everyday well-being of families with children. Reliance between family and maternity clinic nurses is generated by repeated visits to a familiar place, when even painful concerns can be discussed and helped. A long-term relationship with one’s own local health clinic is a driving force for families when parents can rely on a safe professional who knows the family to get the help they need. Mr President! Families have also been able to trust that their data will be transferred reliably from the maternity clinic to the child health clinic as well as later to school health care. In the future, when maternity clinics are no longer in the hands of the public service but are free to choose services every year, there is a risk that families will fall and be excluded from planned maternity clinic activities. The nurse at the maternity and child health clinic is the only person who can reach people's homes almost automatically after giving birth. Would the nurse at the private health centre make any more home visits because it takes more time and the distances can also be long? This would damage the ability of nurses to see and identify the need for early support that is easily hidden and to invest in adequate and appropriate assistance in good time. Equality between families with children would not increase, but would be the opposite: inequality would widen and the threat of exclusion would increase. The introduction of child health clinics as a free choice service for social welfare centres also raises serious concerns about cooperation between health and social care staff and students' care professionals who are excluded from freedom of choice. Will family information be unbroken, or will a fragmented model be created that neither mothers nor children are aware of, let alone that families in need of special support should be targeted? It is therefore quite impossible to understand how a model designed by the government for maternity and child health clinics could reduce differences in the health and well-being of families. Minister, are you seriously going to scrap our excellent, prestigious health clinics abroad and also the family centre model designed to build them and transfer well-functioning maternity and child health clinic services to private health centers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u305	Mr President! There have been several explanations here today in part, but even after asking what is the version of the SDP. I am still repeating that, at the end of the previous period, we had a joint work of eight parties, in which seven parties agreed, and the SDP's version is based on the same starting point, because there was a reform of the social security system, not a reform of the state's regional government. That's when we were doing it together. However, it is a model that has been operating in Sweden for almost 150 years so that it is based on municipal law. Our name in it is a region, so that this same model would not have had to make a separate provincial law but would have been adapted to the current municipal law. But it would therefore be based on a large municipality and therefore involve several municipalities. This would not be necessary, in our model, to distinguish between the organiser and the producer, but the region could be both the organiser and the producer. In this case, as is the case today, this organiser could buy or take advantage of services that are provided by private companies, by the third sector or, in some respects, by the municipality, i.e. the organiser, by the region, and can then be produced by, for example, these three different bodies. At this point, of course, we would not be setting up public services, because if we do, we will be faced with the situation of putting them in the hands of EU competition law, because so far Finland has the privilege of keeping public services without this risk of competition. But now the government wants them there. We believe that this model could come about without a business establishment. I still do not understand why it could not be the same model as the municipalities, that we have a council, that we have a board and an agency. I'm sure this would work at the county level as well. We would have elections in our model, and the starting point could be the same regional division as the government, that is, eighteen regions. In such a case, the power of decision to produce and finance would genuinely lie with these elected ones and the funding would be so that the state shares would come into the war and then there would be a right of taxation in the region, and that tax would be collected on the same model as in Sweden, together with the municipal tax, so there would hardly be any risk of such increases. In our view, there is no need for national companies in this form. So there were four of them in the first place, and now there are three. We think that the province can decide for itself what kind of real estate it must have in the future and can also own it, because then it will also have the opportunity to finance them and their repairs and new buildings, when it also has the right to tax. It is possible to set up a joint real estate company with municipalities through which they are managed. Nor would we want these support services, payrolls and so on, to be part of any joint national company, because here too we have the fear that a system of joint support services between hospitals and municipalities will be wrecked, for example, and the municipalities may then have to re-establish their own services, such as those for payroll or recruitment or catering or other purposes. I don't understand why we have to start a national company here. As far as Ict is concerned, I understand the need for national guidance, but there is also no need for a single company to deal with this issue. Freedom of choice has been at issue many times. We want freedom of choice as Social Democrats. We want to develop it with the system we have now, with the service voucher system, where the public side acts as a controller and then we have the opportunity for people to choose from the menu that has been considered to be good. In this way, control would remain there as well. Another thing that can be developed well, which is not yet very well known, would be this personal budgeting, but it would then require the same legislation which is now apparently also coming, that is, its supported decision-making. Here, briefly, on one note, I tried to squeeze the same, and the government’s proposal contains more than a thousand pages. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u306	Mr President! I would like to say once again that we in the opposition want a social act and a social solution, but not on any terms. We want everyone to be involved and to serve the objectives set for this reform. We accept the transfer of responsibility for organising social and health services to these larger entities. We share these original objectives of reform and want to make a social solution that will last for all. But there are problems with this Government proposal on social security, and these problems lead to the original objectives of the reform being no longer met. And this seems to me to be the essential and central issue to be taken care of: a reform that will have an impact on exactly what we were trying to achieve. The main problems with this reform are that too much change is coming at the same time, at the same time, and many experts have said this. Some even talk about chaos — not just a term invented by the opposition or the social democrats, but a genuine warning of this. Indeed, no such model has been implemented anywhere else. The Swedish model has been mentioned here, but Sweden has not been forced to include its own services and put them on the market to compete for customers. The problem with this model is therefore that these public services must in future be provided by companies in respect of these basic services. In other words, the government’s proposal actually talks about health centre services, i.e. public health centres are incorporated and then put into competition with other companies — large companies, private companies. In this case, tax resources are not necessarily directed explicitly at the provision of human services, but are also directed towards the pursuit of profits by private companies and these provincial companies. And in the worst case scenario, this also leads to a tax avoidance arrangement, or — with a more beautiful word — tax planning, and not all taxes are paid to us. But in any case, our Social Democrats are starting from the fact that, instead of making profits, the resources are being spent on citizens' services: that the maternity clinic services are in order, that there is a doctor there, that there is a quick consultation and a good access to research and treatment, and that social services are also being taken care of and that our child protection is finally being put in order. That is where we want this funding to be directed, which may also be in the form of savings, so that in this new system the service chains will be more functional. The rise in costs is something that many expert opinions have said will happen — and it is not fortune-telling; they are purely expert assessments. Many economists and economics - wise professors say that the cost will increase. And when the costs increase and the money from the state is of a certain size and the county has no tax entitlement, there can be no other means than to increase the customer charges that Mr Taavitsainen spoke well about here, or to reduce the range of services, i.e. to make a limited range of services, a limited service promise that is not enough for everything. It may be that the idea is that then you have to supplement it with private insurance. And when this health insurance system, which is for everyone, leaves, then comes into place a private insurance system, in which everyone then takes insurance as they wish. This is the way I wouldn't want to see it. So long-term it should be possible to look forward to this reform and also to see the dangers that lie on this road. The aim is to reduce social and health inequalities, and that should be borne in mind. Experts say that with this model it will not succeed. And for that reason, this incompetence, placing on the market and linking all of this to this big regional reform can really and certainly lead to the country being in a very confused state in 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u307	Mr President! I would like to say that the third time is the truth, and I hope that I can now use this speech to appeal to the unrestricted right of speech of the Member of Parliament without having to wait five minutes for the debate at this stage. I think we should save everybody time. And I would like to thank the ministers for still being here to listen to our feedback. President! I will continue where I left off in my previous speech, that is to say, putting private and public operators on the same footing, which seemed to justify at least some of the government's statements and the explanatory statement to this proposal. The only problem here is that we do not yet have this public production system in this mode, as it were, that it could be doing the marketing that our multinational health companies in Finland, for example, are already doing. I have used such an example firsthand that when I was a child, my Christmas wish was to get used skates and I was really happy with used skates, but when my children make a Christmas list they do it with the help of fifteen toy magazines that come to our door before the eve, and they tick those things and they come to present the fifteen toy magazines and say that these and these and these and these I need and then these. I just want to say with this example that it is very possible, probably even, for us to start creating new needs with this marketing, which we have not yet understood. As a mother, I am very concerned about the safety of my children all the time. If I am mistaken to say that you have already discovered the possibility of such a latent illness, are you sure that your child does not have it, then Huovinen will run. I think this aspect too little in this debate, and I would just like to point that out here. President! Regional equality has been mentioned several times here. I remember that in Sweden one of the operators suddenly decided that childbirth is an activity that takes up too much money and does not produce sufficient results in a certain rural area, and put the whistles in a bag, leaving it to the landmen to handle this activity at a very rapid pace. Of course, in situations like this, I hope that the government will ensure that Finland does not end up doing the same. In many provinces, including my own, smaller municipalities, I have been asked — and I have not really been able to answer — to say that what wasp or furry in this direction is going to come to us with this market for social services in the case of localities with a few thousand inhabitants and which are very far from the centres. I believe that this is a serious concern, and I hope that the government will also respond to this. EU regulation does not require us to be forced to join, but it was as if it was actually a trade-off when we decided on this very wide-ranging model of freedom of choice. So it was the physical decision that made this coercion compulsory when you had to get this kind of freedom of choice. — This is my interpretation, and the Minister can always correct the misinterpretations of the representative here, if that is the case. I'd like to raise the members of the organization. It was a good thing that the Minister said that, as far as voluntary activities are concerned, we are at risk of falling between these actors. We need to take special care of it, because it is a basic scrap of civil society, and it also gives us new ideas for the social welfare and health services system, so let us think about the operation of primary and shelter homes, the very important work that is organised — which brings me to this issue of counselling. I would like to ask again: when school health care could be excluded from freedom of choice, why was it so difficult to do the same for a maternity clinic? President! I'll be out in a minute. I'll say three things, if you don't mind. I'd like to ask you a few more questions about the real control of the province. If, then, the provincial companies are forced to be incorporated, what is their democratic role after I guess we also have to use some professionals there to keep it in line with these requirements? So what is the role of democracy and in what way can the regional council actually — that is, the political decision-makers — direct this? I believe that there is a risk of complexity and difficult to manage. With regard to staff: unfortunately, this beating has led to an increase in uncertainty, of course, but it is also the case that, even recently, many private companies have not set a very good example in terms of working conditions, and different labeling practices have shown that it is only intended to get cheaper and to bring the same jobs to the people who are already exhausted with less pay. This, too, is something to be paid attention to. Ict was mentioned here. I think that Kela and the Ministry of Finance have made a very good statement about it. President! Finally, this cost savings. I do not understand the logic with which we can reduce costs by EUR 3 billion with this proposal. The Prime Minister repeated this here today. So if the frame comes around the neck and the frame isn't enough, do we raise customer fees, limit services, or put more money on the plane? In my opinion, there are in practice three options. The option of adding money to the machine does not seem to be successful with these economic figures, and then, in the longer run — the long run here has not been discussed very much today — there is a risk that we will not be able to achieve that integration. Unfortunately, then we will have more to pay: when people’s troubles are prolonged, they usually become more difficult and costly. — Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u308	The speeches by Mr Marin and Mr Haatainen are still being made, we will take them at this stage and then the Minister's reply, and then we will see if there is still a need. — Mr Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u309	Mr President! I very much hope that Minister Ruhula, in particular, listened to the very heavy and striking words of former Minister Huovinen regarding the risks and dangers of this reform. At the end of the day, these are the biggest questions: What will happen in the future? Will the quality and accessibility of services be reduced, will customer fees increase? With this government model, these savings cannot be achieved once and for all through structures. For example, we in Tampere have not-so-good experience with this subscriber—producer model, which we got rid of just at the beginning of this year, so I am quite sure that through these administrative structures, which are being built around these wars, these savings and sensible activities will not be achieved, but that these savings will then have to be sought elsewhere. But I asked to speak to thank Minister Risikko for this clarification just now. It opened a lot. Of course, I myself would have liked the big cities to continue to be the producers of services. I think that would have been sensible and fully justified. So we are now moving to a model where even more than 600,000 inhabitants of Helsinki or 230 000 inhabitants of Tampere or other big cities, such as Espoo, Vantaa, Oulu, Turku, Jyväskylä and many others, are not allowed to act as service providers in the future, but very smaller provinces receive these and private companies Attendo, Bee, Health Centre and others receive them. I think this is wrong, and that is why the SDP has proposed that municipalities, and in particular these big cities with broad shoulders, should continue to be able to provide these services in the future. Thank you for these clarifications. I am pleased that the ministers are still here to answer questions. As far as all the intermediate issues are concerned, or as far as all the debates that are so heavy are concerned, this has not been the case, so I would like to thank both ministers for the fact that you are still here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u310	Mr President! This is so broad that it is necessary to take more than one of these short speeches from this point of view. Finally, I would like to raise a few points and, in a way, as a message to the government, as a place of reflection, that now that this reform is, with this system of freedom of choice, placing on the market our public services, health centre services, these basic services, when they are incorporated and placed on the market to compete with private companies, it is only once that it can be opened up to the market. There's no chance of coming back from there anymore. In this Chamber, some government representatives said that this reform is now being carried out while the public is waiting and is being done quickly and then corrected if there is anything to be done about it. But this fundamental question is a sort of one that cannot be played with many times, that is, when the market is opened they are and remain. That is our European competition law, and that is what we have to respect. That is why we should now consider this, and that is also what these economic scholars warn us about. Well, then it has also been said about these clinics, now that we have raised the issue that school health care was restricted outside, that why there were no limits to the clinics, and we suspected that these were going to the companies. Well, Minister Risikko said in public that they could be incorporated, that they could be there in private companies, and now the government came to the Prime Minister's mouth today to say that the province decides whether or not they go to the companies or to these social welfare centres. But now my question is: is it now certain that the provinces will be able to draw up different service packages that go to these social centres? What services, then, are on the free market? What does the Constitution and equality say about this? Is this really possible? I have been given the impression that the country should then have a uniform system of what these companies have in these services, i.e. there in the market, that the same system would then be in the whole country. And if now health centers are going to companies, then surely in the provinces there will also be maternity clinics, because the clinics work there in health centres. So this is where the clinics are being incorporated, which means Oyuvola Ab is not a far-fetched thing at all. But I ask and hope that the government will continue to consider these in the future, when the freedom of choice law has not yet been introduced, so that we do not go to something that we then deeply regret and cannot correct in any way. Well, this role of municipalities, which was well raised here by Mr Marin: it is a genuine concern, and this reform could, overall, be smoother if the municipalities had the opportunity to provide services in the event that this province or large social welfare area were so viewed, and it would consider which municipality also has the opportunity to provide rational services. For example: There are so many population concentrations in Uusimaa that it can be quite ferocious that one-off is going to be like this. And while this incorporation is still being postponed, there will certainly be a huge confusion here — especially since in Uusimaa these preparations are not yet in place at such a time as in many other provinces. You've had a lot of social work done for ten years, and now it's in the way that they have this county structure in order. Exote has been erected twice as long, and now it's starting to play. So here, if you're sure these fear factors are even bigger. But thank you to the ministers for your answers and your presence and for spending your time here until the late hours of the evening. I really appreciate it. I would also like to thank you for the good and thoughtful answers to this issue. Surely there are still many things left for us to clarify and to wait for an answer. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u311	And Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u312	Mr President! One of the key reasons for building change in social and health care is that we have enough experts. Even if there were to be any kind of digitalisation and any kind of bullocks, we are in a situation where we need to make a change to the current situation, a fundamental change, because there would be a shortage of experts. This will be one big thing for the success of the whole picture, that we will get our education system, for example, in such a model that it is in the social world. It's not exactly a day or two or a few years. On that day, there's gonna be a war when those people, the women and the men who work as service providers... In a situation where another person is confronted, there should be a social worker for whom the patient and the customer are the same person. This was a good thing that it came up at least once in this debate. Second of all, this isn't gonna be perfect. 1.1. is the day on which the legislation on freedom of choice comes into force, the law on social welfare and health care, the law on enforcement, the law on the financing of social services comes into force. We need the day to which we are aiming, but we accept it as a matter of principle that we are not yet ready on 2 January. This is years of work. The success of this work over the years: the current situation in the country as a whole is that we have provinces that are well under way, and then we have provinces that have a small amount of catching up to do. The fundamental support for change is that we in the government can and, of course, also help the opposition to send forward the message that this change is progressing. If we went to square one now,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-04-ps-34.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
