ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u1	The 5th item of the order of business is now being presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 21 September 2017. The debate will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 6 to 28 May. on the subject. The debate will continue. — Minister Tiilikainen, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u2	Mr President! In fact, in the section of the Ministry of the Environment, the Government's budget proposal brings many improvements, additions, additions that Parliament needed in previous debates. Not necessarily very large in terms of appropriations, because the entire administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment is very small in terms of monetary terms, but the improvements that have been sorely needed here. Overall, the Ministry of the Environment's budget will amount to 181.2 million for next year. It is 5.6 million less than in the budget itself this year, and this is due, for example, to the removal from the budget of the EU's environmental fund for environmental and nature conservation projects. Operating expenditure of the Finnish Environment Agency will also decrease somewhat, vessel investments will decrease. Which means things like this. Then outside the budget, in addition to budget appropriations, the State Housing Fund is estimated to spend EUR 173 million on housing grants and EUR 7 million on interest subsidies. In addition, EUR 12 million will be charged to the budget by the State Housing Fund for other purposes. What, then, do I think is the absolute best change compared to the current year? Yes, it is a strong investment in safeguarding forest biodiversity, i.e. a substantial increase in Metso's funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u5	In the traditional way, we go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u6	Mr President! It's easy to thank Minister Tiilikainen. At the Housing and Environment Section of the Committee on Finance, we have already started working on this budget, and in particular I would like to thank you for the money that will be available for these nature services. There has been a significant investment in our national parks. More than 6.6 million visitors visit these areas under Metsähallitus, and each visitor leaves more than EUR 10 in these areas. It's got a big meaning. I would also like to thank you for this Metso money, which has now been raised to its level. Up to 4,900 hectares will be able to protect these most sensitive forests in Southern Finland next year through a diversity programme. Also in housing production you, Minister of State Brickie, you've turned on a brand-new drag. Housing production is now in the figures it should be. Today, the first messages told us that more than 40,000 new dwellings will be built, and most importantly, small dwellings, rental dwellings. I would point out that, during your period, the increase in rents has also been brought to a halt, and this is the objective we have pursued together, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u7	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this million dollars now comes to the counselling of rental housing. That's been in the Social Democrats' alternative budget. It is also a good thing that housing production is at a high level. It is just a little confusing that, for example, non-subsidised rental housing production rests very much on housing funds, and it is known that there are very high returns expectations. Another major problem, perhaps even for the national economy, is that new non-financial owner-occupied housing is being built on a principle which is rather unclear to consumers and which leads to these housing company loans becoming very high in families. My question is: what are we going to do about this? Then over here on the environmental side. It is very good that we have these nature reserves, but they also need workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u8	It's getting a little over the top.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u9	Thank you, Mr Tiilikainen, for the very fine, important work you have done. It is about small money, but it is so important to our society that many people do not understand it. One of the essential points is these climate issues. More money was now available for Metso. This is a very good thing. And the LULUCF negotiations were quite successful so far. Much work remains to be done on this, but I believe that these measures taken by our Ministry of the Environment will also help us to achieve a real good impact on these climate issues and to believe that we are actually developing our climate issues and working towards a better situation. As a forest owner, I know that almost all of us forest owners have our own protected areas that are nowhere to be seen, i.e.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u10	Mr President! This budget will not make it easier to worry about the diversity of nature and forests. The budget for nature conservation is still about half of what it was at the start of this government. I am glad that more money has been made for Metso, but when the minister here said that we are at an adequate level, there are still 2 million missing to keep us at the target level for the Metso programme. This is an issue in which Parliament can bring about a change in its own budget reading. I would like to thank you for promoting wood construction and, in particular, for the programme to prevent financial problems for tenants. Of this million, I would like to hear more about exactly how it is going to be used. The news has really been delightful. Housing construction is lively, and we are already seeing a slight trend that, especially in new leases, if the rents do not fall now, it has at least broken down. More must be built in the capital region in particular, and here the MAL agreement is the most essential. Now a draft of a new long-term interest rate subsidy started.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u11	Mr President! First of all, thank the Minister for going in the right direction in Metso, the fish roads and wood construction — not enough, but the direction is the right one. Then there is one national and one international question: The national is joining our nature reserve network and our national parks. Many were happy about Hossa’s new park this year, but they also hope for a national park for Porkkalanniemi. At what rate will these funds be able to expand the national park network? When will Porkkalanniemi National Park come? The second issue is international climate policy: You are a European Minister for the Environment and you must have followed President Trump's very critical climate policy. Now he's talking about opening up the Paris Treaty. What's the mood for this? What are the European ministers going to say here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u13	Mr President! The project to prevent financial problems for tenants with financial problems is truly a worthwhile project. There is a prevention of problems if households are encouraged to change economic and life management more permanently, and this can prevent a more difficult downward spiral for many people. But then, in connection with the budget debate, the government had signed a protocol stating: "The government is preparing to invest funds from the State Housing Fund in ways that increase affordable housing production, improve employment and strengthen sustainable growth. Decisions shall be taken in the context of the supplementary draft budget." Could the Minister do a little more to open up this protocol, what is involved in this planning?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u14	Mr President! It is good that Minister of the Environment Kimmo Tiilikainen has done his own work with great heart and good results. Getting LULUCF in the right position and running it all the way is a wonderful thing to do, for which I thank you very much. However, when we are constantly talking about more protected areas in Finland, it is worth remembering that Finland is the absolute number one in the European Union in terms of the number and quality of protected areas. We have two options: the protection of forests, or we will see that deforestation is destruction. This is by no means the case. All the forest professionals have taken their courses and studied so that they can take account of different targets, know how to do the job, and yet they always give the impression that cutting forests is destroying forests. That's not the case at all. We have about three to four hundred thousand forest owners, forest farms, a very large proportion of which are farms with very few logging activities. In other words, we have a built-in protection system that does not pay very much to push millions into, because it works on its own, for free.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u15	Mr. Speaker! Finland's original nature is very seriously threatened, and it is therefore absolutely essential that we now have more money at Metso in order to move forward in the protection process. It is important that this is continued in such a way that the next year's budget also provides money for this, so that we can reach the 100,000 hectares that Metso's objective is. It's very important. It is also very important that we immediately implement purchases with landowners, because now there is money — now we have to do this. My second point is briefly: these fish roads. Construction of Kemijoki fishing boats, where are we at? 70 years have been expected and the stock of fish has finally been destroyed so that it can no longer be renewed. What are we going to do about Kemijoki? It is good that there is a little more money for other water projects as well. I'm also concerned about the Ylläs mining project. It shall not affect
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u16	Irade the Talman! When the student housing allowance was transferred to the general housing allowance, it was known that the household concept would become a problem, and this concern is now materialized. Two members of different households living in the same dwelling are often treated as a family and have a direct impact on housing allowance. I am sure you will recognise this problem and I would be happy to hear how this is now to be corrected. Second thing. We are now working hard to cut our carbon sink, and then it is all the more important that the trees that are being cut are directed to long-lived products, that is to say, wood construction should be promoted. In the forthcoming change to the MRL, you are changing the layer alammation in a way that increases material neutrality, and that is an extremely good thing. The problem that still exists is that in Finland wood construction requires both belts and suspenders, both structural fire protection and sprinkler. In other words, the Finnish tree will burn even better than Swedish wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u17	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for increasing resources for biodiversity in the budget for Metso, but, as other representatives have already said in this debate, funding is still not sufficient if we want to change this important issue. The loss of biodiversity in Finnish forests and nature is also a real challenge and must be tackled. I also think that the role of nature tourism deserves praise. In this context, however, I would like to see better management of this now, because it seems to be a truly multiplicity of actors lacking coordination. But, Minister, I would like to ask you about the funding of environmental organisations. You know as well as we do that organisations are very important experts in the direction of Parliament, for example, and also play an important role in stimulating and maintaining the active role of citizens. Why does the government not want to increase the funding of organisations but rather cut it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u18	Mr President! The Government's additional funding for Metso is certainly in the right direction. Finland’s biodiversity is under threat, including the shortage of decayed wood, and as a result many species of life are threatened with extinction. Although I have to say that the Metso programme is nowhere near the level it was originally supposed to be and how experts have meant it, and the amount of nature conservation funding is not even close to the level it was in 2015, which is why I urge you to be more ambitious. I would like to ask you about the programme for the protection of bogs, which was suspended a few years ago. Throughout Finland, valuable, important music has been inventoryd, and swamp nature is also very sensitive and vulnerable and endangered. Are you, Minister Tiilikainen, going to promote the protection of bogs, and what measures are being taken to further the programme for the protection of bogs?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u19	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank Minister Tiilika for his excellent work on LULUCF. It is very important that we have won the round. But my real point is about national parks, which are our pearls, you can say that treasures, as the importance of them has been highlighted here. According to the information I have just received, nature tourism has already surpassed urban travel worldwide. Still the sun trips, such holiday trips are ahead, but this tells us which direction is going, and our national parks are a very important tourist destination. That is why it is extremely important that the infrastructure with which they can be achieved should be maintained. I welcome the fact that funding was found to replace the stairs on Saana, among other things, but there are still a lot of needs. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how we can do this a little better, so that we can get even better use of the existing park infrat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u20	Mr President! Metsähallitus plans extensive fellings in the Oulujärvi hiking area in Kuostonsaari and Kaarresalo. Among the wooded forests, there are forests over 200 years old. The fellings are contrary to the rule governing the establishment of the Oulujärvi hiking area and are contrary to the ban on weakening the natural forest of Oulujärvi. Kaarresalo has previously been protected from felling by Metsähallitus' own protection decision, but now Metsähallitus has dismantled the conservation decision. I would like to ask the Minister whether the result targets set for Metsähallitus are too high and thus cause these highly questionable fellings for biodiversity, or is there something to be improved in the house's internal practices when the valuable and important forest for hiking is being cut down? Are the diversity objectives taken seriously in Metsähallitus' internal operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u21	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for an extremely good policy. This government is pursuing and making a greener policy than many governments have done in the past. With regard to the public administration tasks of Metsähallitus, I would like to ask when Metsähallitus manages national parks and nature reserves and we have a very valuable network of abandoned houses in what condition this network is in. I know that a report on the correction debt is being prepared, in which the correction debt related to all national parks and natural parks, but also often to deserted houses, is being examined. Will this report be made available to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection already in the course of the budgetary procedure? I would particularly like to thank you for the nature tourism project. As has been said here, nature tourism is a growing trend. For example, the number of visitors to Hossa National Park has doubled this year compared to last year, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u22	Mr President! It is easy for me to join in the thanks for the good work that Minister Tiilikainen has done for our environment. Among other things, the whole of wood construction is excellent. However, there is much more we could do in Finland to increase the construction of wood, and this will be helped, among other things, by the large dismantling of standards, and now by these programmes, which the state is speeding up. In addition, the recovery projects for migratory fish stocks are extremely positive, as are the additions to the Metso programme. Ten years ago, the ministers Anttila and Tiilikainen of the time produced this excellent Metso program, which is also thanks for the delay, and it is great that this will continue. However, forest diversity is extremely important for the sustainability of the whole of nature. There are also investments in the circular economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u23	Mr President! When we discuss the protection of nature and the environment, it is good to remember the time perspective long-term ahead. Sometimes it's worth looking back. Referring to Mr Kiuru's praise for the positive nature conservation of this government, the entire spending limits for nature conservation funds amounted to EUR 38 million during the previous term of the government. The current government cut 18.5 million of them first, and now the level is raised to EUR 26.6 million, which means that there are still 11 million under the spending limits for the last period and 26 million under the whole period. However, I would like to say about Metso funds, when the government praises that it has returned them to an adequate level and that this would ensure biodiversity that this is unfortunately not the case with that excellent programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate will continue after the great committee meeting. Before that, however, two minutes for the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Time is very limited, so first of all I would like to thank you for your thanks, and you have well identified those improvements which will be included in next year's budget. A few questions I would like to comment on: Mr Haavisto asked about the situation in international climate negotiations following the withdrawal of the United States, about what the EU could do. The EU can, of course, implement its own legislation and proceed with our own commitment to implement the Paris Agreement as quickly as possible. In addition, the EU must and must do climate diplomacy, as does the ministers of individual Member States. It is now extremely important that other actors do not look at the United States, but look at what the EU, China, Japan, Canada, Mexico, India, Indonesia, countries of this kind are doing together. We have a broad commitment to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, and the largest in the world – the G20 minus one in practice – are also implementing the Paris Agreement. Yesterday, in Turku, I was allowed to run the EU-China Water Forum, and there is now an order for more cooperation between the EU and China on environmental protection in general, not just in climate matters, but also in other areas. Some questions related to counseling overly indebted ones. Thank you for that. That is a good thing, I am happy that this pilot project will start. I will then leave all the concrete measures to the experts to decide. I'm not going to champion it myself. They asked about the Soil Protection Program. For its part, the State has implemented the protection of bogs, with more than 36,000 hectares. Metso: The woody bog can be protected through it. And my Nature Gift for Finland campaign also brings a number of swamp sites to conservation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u26	This matter will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u27	Let us continue today at 1.30 p.m. with the adjourned session and the debate. — First Minister Tiilikainen, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u28	Madam President! I am trying to be concise, namely that I have just not said anything in my presentation on energy, although it was intended that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Department of Employment and the Economy's energy department should have come together at the same time, so just a few statements on these energy issues. In fact, the key issue is that next year's budget now begins with the implementation of the energy and climate strategy, which was set aside for EUR 25 million per year in the spring in connection with spending limits decisions. The parliamentary transport funding working group also considered the promotion of low-emission transport, and it is precisely in line with the proposals made by this working group that these resources have also been used in practice in line with the energy and climate strategy. They are divided into several ministries, but it is perhaps a good idea to review that, since this strategy is being implemented, it involves precisely that support for the purchase of electric cars, support for the construction of the electricity and gas infrastructure, aid for the conversion of internal combustion engines into gas, such things as this. In addition, these elements include various advisory appropriations to achieve the objectives of the energy and climate strategy and the wood construction already mentioned, and so on. Of course, the good news is that next year we will have a very good budget for promoting renewable energy production and energy efficiency. All in all, these power of support for energy will rise to 55 million, with an increase of 20 million compared to the current year, so quite a lot can then be done in this area of support for energy, and I believe that there will indeed be a lot of good projects. In fact, here are a few words about that energy policy. Now that there is still time left for the President to grant graciously, I will take advantage of it to answer some of the things that were raised in that last set and that were not answered at the time. Representative Heinonen, a few others, raised the volume of construction. Indeed, when the government’s top project was, one of them, to increase housing construction, then, if anything has been successful, this has been successful. That apartment...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u29	The requests for answers that have been made earlier in the debate are still here, but they can also be asked for new ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u30	Mr President! We agree that the pace of construction is high. We know what it is to have houses. There's got to be formulas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u33	Mr President! It is very good indeed that much is being built now and that, in the long term, we can also see, for example, the gradual reduction of rents, prices. An example of what we in Vantaa could do even more in many cities is dismantling the renovation. It seems that this is now being taken up and made possible by legislation as well, that this will become a relief. I'd love to hear more about that. Then, to my delight, I have just read that the Prime Minister has now set up a project group to find solutions to indoor air problems in public buildings, and there would certainly also be needs for environmental health research. Is this going to be a relief? My real question relates to the key projects in the circular economy. We aim to reduce consumption and increase the re-use of resources. This is indeed the direction we should be investing in. In 2016 and 2017, EUR 1 million of key project funding was earmarked for this purpose from the Ministry of the Environment’s administrative sector. Now, apparently, the stakes are
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u34	Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of the current situation and the past and the previous government and the current government, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with regard to what is happening to the Finnish suburbs. Last season, the government worked very hard for the existence, development of suburbs, and now during this period, when we have been through cities and municipalities, especially in large cities, we see that the suburbs are not doing well. Minister, what measures are you going to take to make the Finnish suburbs and the inhabitants there better?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u35	Mr President! If you look at this big picture, there are plenty of places where action is good and the direction is right, but the volume is far too ambitious. This is where the Minister has raised these Metso funds, for example. We know that this government cut them radically and all in all the money for nature conservation. It is good that it has now been understood that they must be returned to them, but we are still only halfway through what we had during the last term of government. And especially important, for example, is the protection of forest nature today because the government is planning to add fellings. With regard to climate and energy, there is little in common: there are good objectives, there are small investments, for example, this energy support package and tendering, but the 2 terawatt hours involved are only good 2% of the electricity production in our country as a whole. Insert
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u36	Mr President! It has been pointed out in this debate that the current government is not as environmentally friendly as the previous one. It is indeed good to say that things are the other way around, because environmental friendliness is a cross-administrative issue and now environmental issues are very much involved in every administrative sector, not just here in the Ministry of the Environment's administration. First of all, the Ministry of the Environment’s key objective is low carbon and energy efficient Finland. In other words, the Paris agreement is being influenced here, then all energy issues, energy efficiency in buildings, wood construction, and the fact that it has only now been decided to create 210,000 hectares of new protected areas. We have a lot of things that look like everything and investments made in a cross-administrative way. The fact that 10 million has now been spent on Metso is perhaps less than what has been sought on many issues, but we have a lot more money spent on protection in its entirety than in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u37	Mr President! It must now be said that it is unnecessary for us to argue about who has done the most in what age. The most important thing is that the measures are in the right direction, as they are now, but we have differences of opinion on what is sufficient. I have to say in this way, as in Peri-Finnish, that there is no mere reprehensibility in this draft budget of the Ministry of the Environment, but there is a lot of praise there, but I think that there is insufficient action on the nature conservation side. For example, I would now like to review the course history of Metso funds: in 2015, the state budget accounted for EUR 26.8 million. In the following years 2016 and 2017, only EUR 8 million. Now the government is proposing an increase of EUR 16 million in the right direction,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u38	Madam President! Construction has reached a good pace in Finland, and it can be seen in the street view: cranes are visible and new apartments are being completed at a remarkable pace. That's good, and it might even start showing up at rent prices. However, I ask the Minister that when new housing companies and targets enter the market, the sale price may be very low due to the large number of corporate loans. The company loan will then be reduced by a capital charge after a couple of years of leave — i.e. only interest will be paid first — and then, in a couple of years’ time, it will of course be quite high. If, then, interest rates increase further, is there a risk that the public, as it were, will be greedy for too expensive housing which artificially
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u39	Madam President! After all, housing policy will continue to be big on the agenda in this House, because the Audit Committee has just published a study on this issue that addressed important issues, housing price formation and these support schemes as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u45	Mr President! I suggest we settle this dispute. It is enough for the government to show — representative Heinonen spoke of the construction of 2016 — one house that was built in 2016 and whose formula has begun to be designed during this reign. One house in the capital region, whose plot was born of a formula that was born during this reign. You don't have to argue about this, it's enough to find such an example there. Construction is more than a government term, and all those who decide on municipal matters know how long it takes to prepare and approve the formulas. I'd love to have that time cut short. It's about Metso money. Is this money, which has ultimately been taken from the Housing Fund through the correction fund — I think this logic is a little bad — enough to ensure that protected forests are protected?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u46	Mr President! For the construction debate, I could take a position that we will have construction in Ylivieska. Of course, it is not here in the capital region, but unfortunately we have done a little wood construction in Ylivieska, even though the minister has worked hard on that too. The Ministry of the Environment's property has a lot of standards governing this kind of construction, which has been successfully dismantled, but I would ask the Minister how this dismantling work will continue and how to ensure that there will be no more new standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u47	Madam President! The development programme relating to the housing conditions of the elderly population has just ended in your ministry. I would like to ask you, Minister, what results the development programme has brought and how the results will be used in the future in relation to housing for those who need special support, such as the elderly, the memory-disadvantaged and the disabled. I welcome this million-euro money to support debt and problems in rental housing. Let us say here that the million is the same amount, which is also given to the development of hospice care, but on a different side. A million is always the million. As far as affordable housing is concerned, I think it is very important for young people and students to have small housing. At some point, I asked a written question about the forms of container housing. In what way do you feel, for example, that this could be the solution to a lack of housing? Overall, the level of rents
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u48	Mr President! The built environment also includes public construction. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities has found that there are over a thousand schools in Finland with indoor air problems, even mold. Last year, the Audit Committee reached the same conclusion. I understand that the Prime Minister's announcement in relation to healthy buildings and improving the situation is still coming in the autumn, but I would now like to ask the Minister: how do you see the situation in terms of the state budget? After all, many municipalities are in quite serious financial difficulties and cannot correct these schools, so how could the state be involved in this, and would it be possible, for example, to obtain assistance from the European Fund for Strategic Investments from EFSI? France seems to have already made some money for these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u49	Mr President! This good question and the opening of the indoor air problems by my colleague from Espoo, Mr Kauman, which are to a great extent also environmental problems and of course also relate to construction and other ministries' plots, but they are an important question: Our hometown, Espoo, is a good example of new solutions — perhaps later on, old ones who have been re-introduced — that is, such fast schools. At Niipper School, an indoor air problem was identified. At the beginning of 2016, students were driven off by bus, and as early as April of the following year, a new school, a type school, was completed in such a way that this school is not permanently there, but could be for decades if the city makes a lease with a developer who is also responsible for such indoor air issues as the school. Would this be something that could be carried forward to other municipalities with similar problems? In other words, we need as cheaply as possible a quick solution that, however, could:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u50	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Halmemenpää for reminding us of how these Metso funds have actually evolved. In fact, in 2015, almost EUR 27 million was spoken of, which was dropped to EUR 8 million at the beginning of this government. The fact that this appropriation is now being increased is extremely welcome and a good thing, but we are genuinely concerned about the state of biodiversity in our forest environment, especially in the context of half of what they were at the end of the previous period and at the same time the number of fellings and Metsähallitus' performance targets have been increased. This worry is real. That is why I was also a little surprised when this budget book states that efforts are being made to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020 in order to secure our ecosystem. This is the objective that Finland is committed to, but I myself have just received an answer to my written question that these current measures will not achieve these objectives, so this seems somewhat contradictory.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u51	Mr President! At that earlier session, the time ran out and I did not receive a reply from the Minister that what the Minister thinks should be done to create the Kemijoki fishing roads. That would be an extremely big thing and, for tourism, for example, it would be a great thing. The second point I would like to raise is whether the Minister is familiar with this open mine project of Hannukay there in the middle of the Ylläs tourist areas. Waste water would be discharged into the Muonio River and the Tornio River, which are still the finest rivers in Europe at the moment. I am very concerned about this mining project in Hannukai.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u52	Madam President! In the second section, we talk about the debt of repair, and then we deal with the repair debt of transport. However, here we have at least a double amount of repair debt if we look at public buildings alone — that is almost EUR 5 billion for public buildings. In addition, it is up to ten times more of this 5 billion if you look at all the buildings in Finland that require repair. So there are two questions: What does the Minister think about how, in particular, these buildings of the 60s and 70s, which are now coming to the need for renovation, could, for example, receive more of these compensation grants in the suburbs? Borrowers and so on are currently completely impossible, some of them are not allowed under any circumstances. Secondly, of course, these public buildings, of which schools, day-care centres, health centres were mentioned here. In the past, there were separate fundings, and on the other hand, this model, which was referred to earlier, was also the presentation by Minister Rinte of a separate company such as this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u53	Mr President! The National Park is a well-known and respected brand, as has been said here. It is a guarantee of wonderful nature and good services, and for Hossa National Park it is particularly well demonstrated by the fact that the number of visitors has more than doubled in a year. Many visitors to Hossa have now been to the National Park for the first time. Such visible groups have been young hikers, but especially those who have grown up, and they have received feedback that the routes should be slightly better equipped: there should be more, more frequent breaks and more frequent benches, especially for these older hikers. What is it, Minister, that these funds now allow for a level increase in these parks? And are there any plans for developing the service equipment of parks?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u54	Mr President! Government and Minister The Tiilikainen has done a very good job of making the regulation of construction more flexible and cutting red tape, thank you for that. [Quick Five] Secondly, I would like to thank the Minister for his work in promoting wood construction. We have been talking about wood construction for a long time, but now even in that sector it has really started to happen. I believe that the investments made in the programme for the construction of wood in this budget will continue to increase the pace of construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u55	Mr President! Representative Parviainen here spoke of nature tourism and the importance of our national parks. After all, we now have money for the next year's budget for this so-called 'Tourism 4.0' project, which focuses specifically on these routes, signals and online services. My wish would be not only to invest in new sites and to open up new places, but also to remember our old national parks and nature reserves, so that their biodiversity will also be preserved. For example, the number of visitors to Sipoonkorvi National Park has multiplied over the years, and yet there is still a good stage in the route. I hope that the old national parks opened years ago will also be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u56	And Mr Viitanen and Mr Heinonen, and then the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u57	Mr President! The price of living depends not only on having enough homes but also on what the government does. It must be said that genuine concern about this price for housing is also linked to the fact that, for the third time in a row, the government intends to increase property taxes and also to increase heating costs and so forth. As far as the dismantling of standards is concerned, Minister, if you could comment on this matter of energy certification. However, when Parliament has also required that energy certificates be voluntary for old detached houses, on the contrary, we now have a law in which only more energy certificates are sought and the garages have already been placed in the energy certificates. In this respect, this development is somewhat different from the dismantling of standards and quite the opposite to that of the previous government term, including with regard to the policy of the whole of Parliament. President! To this end, I would like to say that it is great that representatives Skinner and Sirpa Paatero spoke here about the suburbs. I really wish the government would take this message seriously, because
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u58	Mr President! In these statistics, the ages of two housing ministers are seen as clear thorns. First, the Minister of Housing, Vapaavuori: construction rose significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u63	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u64	Mr President! Close efforts will be made to note that every year, when Metso funds have been spent on the acquisition of nature reserves, the area of nature conservation will increase because it is mainly a matter of permanent protection. It is good that we are now able to spend another 10 million more than before. It speeds up the increase in the number of protected areas. It's a necessary thing. Then, in connection with construction, let's start with this norm. In the past, questions were asked about wood construction, for example. This belt-hexel thing, i.e. double fire protection from the beginning of next year, will be removed, i.e. if you have a sprinkled apartment construction site, for example, then you no longer need a plasterboard to cover wooden structures. That's a relief. Otherwise, the building regulations are constantly being gutted and the settings are bundled and reduced on that side. Discussion of when and where:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u78	Then we move on to Minister Niinistö's speech, no more than seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u79	Madam President! The draft budget for next year follows the lines of the Defence Report. The maintenance and development of defence capabilities are based on changes in the operating environment. The Ministry of Defence's section includes appropriations of just under EUR 2.9 billion. This amounts to €2.5 billion of expenditure under the spending limits and the rest to VAT expenditure outside the spending limits. The share of expenditure in the Ministry of Defence's section of GDP projected for next year is 1.24%. This year it is 2 per cent more than 1,26 per cent. Defence expenditure will therefore fall slightly compared to GDP, as GDP will increase compared to this year. With the calculation method used by NATO countries, Finland's defence expenditure would be 0.2 or 0.3 percentage points higher, depending mainly on how much of its expenditure would be included in defence expenditure. In line with the Defence Report, in particular, the capability of the Army will be improved. The preparedness of the Air and Navy is already at a reasonable level. The draft budget includes an increase of EUR 50 million agreed in last spring's budgetary plan to improve the preparedness required for a change in the security environment. The prerequisites of universal military service, our defence solutions, the secret of cost-effectiveness are secured. The entire serviceable male age group will be trained. The number of days on the ground and the number of refresher exercises of the reserve shall be kept at the level of the current year. An increase of EUR 2 million will be allocated to the recruitment of contract soldiers. The number of hours and days on board will remain at this year's level. Resources will be allocated to the maintenance and development of the Defence Forces' material performance. The draft budget includes an increase in the budget referred to in the Government Programme for the correction of material performance deficiencies, which will increase from EUR 80 million for the current year to EUR 110 million for the coming year. According to the Government Programme and the budgetary plan, this increase will continue to increase gradually from baseline to EUR 130 million in 2019 and EUR 150 million in 2020. About EUR 941 million, or 39% of the military defence budget, is spent on material preparedness, which is more than once in this decade. Two new orders are proposed to the Defence Forces. The maximum amount proposed for defence equipment procurement is EUR 1.6 billion for the Defence Forces’ development of material 2018 subscription. The Navy Project Fleet 2020 is mainly included in this 10-year order mandate. Other larger start-up projects include the Marine Fleet 2000 Life Cycle Update and Surface Response Missile System 2020. Mr President! The fact remains that, at the same time as more money is made available for defence equipment and capabilities, it is still necessary to save on the operation, unfortunately. Factors that reduce the budget of the Defence Administration are mainly operating expenditure savings common to all administrative sectors, the amount of which for the Defence Administration increases by approximately EUR 13 million compared to 2017. In addition, the Competitiveness Pact will reduce operating expenditure by around EUR 2.3 million compared to this year. If next year's draft budget is compared with this year's budget, it should be noted that, for budgetary technical reasons, this year's budget included an increase of some EUR 43 million due to changes in expenditure on material purchases. That addition is not included in next year's budget. Mr President! EUR 57 million is proposed for military crisis management equipment and administrative expenditure. The increase is approximately 5 million compared to the 2017 actual budget. This increase is mainly due to the training operation in Iraq. The maintenance expenditure of Finnish crisis management forces is included in the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The planned joint strength of Finnish crisis management forces in various operations, mainly Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan, will be approximately 520 soldiers, according to current estimates. A similar amount of euro is proposed to support defence organisations than in the current year's budget. This is a good thing, and thanks are due to Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u80	It is now possible to use the replies. Please sign up by pressing the V button and standing up. The length of the responses may not exceed 2 minutes now, at least at this beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u81	Mr President! First of all, I think that the Minister of Defence is well placed to do his job on the tip of what the Committee on Defence will be able to look at. Secondly, we are faced with an exceptionally large set-up, because, to put it a little more generally, we will be investing in the coming years in an effort to increase defence capabilities and capabilities in a way that seeks its equivalent in history. At the same time, we are increasing international defence cooperation, perhaps faster than has happened in the past about ten years. These two phenomena are essential, while, of course, our crisis management capabilities are improving in relation to international cooperation. International cooperation is important and necessary, and in the context of the current debate, it also requires a cost-effective way of preparing our own defence, so that international cooperation will definitely provide it with the necessary additional input needed to provide and receive international assistance. That is why I would like to say that the actions aimed at cooperation between the defence branches and improving international preparedness are extremely necessary, in a way that is somewhat similar to the Aurora 17 exercise that is currently taking place in Sweden. It is unfortunate that there will be a terrible dramatic debate on these issues, because I have not seen in the domestic debate that there would be any disagreement between the responsible political parties on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u82	Madam President! In this context, I would also like to thank the Government for the increase in appropriations for the Defence Administration, which is also appropriate and necessary on behalf of the opposition. There will be more money for contract soldiers, among other things, and this will also help to ensure the quality of the training of military personnel. But, of course, there is also something to be developed. I would have asked the Minister a few questions here, perhaps the first of which relates to these major military exercises by Mr Kanervank, the chairman of the Defence Committee. As a minister, you have taken a position on major military exercises, which is to say that we should give Finland as a platform to the international forces. However, I am now proposing a different type of training option, and this second option is to raise the level of refresher training. In the last Defence Power Reform, the refresher exercises in Finland for practically several years ceased, and in 2015 it was decided jointly by Parliament that during the coming government term, whoever is sitting on the board, the exercises will be raised to 18,000 levels. As early as last spring and as far as I remember, it is high time to increase the number of refresher exercises, out of the 18,000 that ended up in 2015. At the time, that 18,000 wasn't a roof. It was a floor level. Now that it has also been stated in the defence report that the troops of war are being raised from 230,000 to 280,000, that is to say, 50,000, although some of this is a calculated withdrawal, would it not be appropriate, Minister, to focus on this increase in the level of refresher training and to leave these foreign exercises — on that scale at least — aside for some time and hopefully even longer?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u83	Mr President! It is true that the Finnish military environment has become more unstable in recent years, and I welcome the fact that Finland, the government, has responded to this. International exercises, which have also been referred to in many debates in recent days, are an important part of Finnish defence policy. I ask the Minister: How will they be in the future? Will Finland continue to participate, as I hope, in these international exercises? On the other hand, Mr Kari raised a very important issue: the Finnish people's own defence. Special concern is being given to the reservists' refresher days, and at least I personally see that next year's refresher training days in this draft budget will be guaranteed at current levels. It is equally important to train and equip the garrison for these modern challenges. How, Minister, do you see that when Finns go into crisis management, do we today have sufficient equipment for it and what are the experiences of these crisis management tasks?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u84	Madam President! I welcome the addition of euros to international crisis management for next year, and it is very good if Finns benefit from it for their own training and expertise. But I still think that it is also part of our international responsibility and aim, which is why we are going to them, is world peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u87	Mr President! I would also like to emphasise that military crisis management is a factor affecting Finland's security policy and overall security, and it is right that 5 million have been added to it, and that is probably the case that those training missions in Iraq will continue next year. This defence budget does well to support the lines of the defence statement. As has been mentioned, it is emphasised that the security environment in our country has changed and may have deteriorated. That is why it is right that 50 million has been put into readiness. I would also like to reiterate that next year, large-scale projects will begin in the field of defence equipment procurement, which will indeed extend ten years. The maximum amount is 1.6 billion, and this fleet 2020 is part of it. I hope that this project will have a huge employment impact on shipyards and then on their subcontractors. Yes, defence equipment procurements and this hiring of contract soldiers. Although it is a proposal of EUR 2 million, I think it gives us the chance that the military service people will be able to test whether this profession will be theirs in the future. Then I would like to suggest to the Minister — and I have probably already spoken about this in the 1980s — that the Ministry of Defence and the Chief Staff should begin serious discussions on the repatriation of the military personnel. It was paid between 71 and 92. Any such economic handout would probably be a significant thing for the garrison who return home — if it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u88	Mr President! Minister of Defence Niinistö and Chairman of the Defence Committee Ilkka Kanerva have rightly pointed out the idea of organising large international cooperation exercises in Finland. It would be a valuable experience to defend Finland on our own soil. Practice is part of the preparation. The interoperability of different defence branches, as well as their interoperability with partners, are important skills that cannot be learned on paper. Co-operation is extremely important when it comes to the real world, when the partners need help. Exercises are also a cost-effective way to train the Defence Forces, and the closer it takes, the cheaper it is for us. This appropriate proposal to organise large co-operation exercises in Finland has also been firmly rejected. This is hard to understand. Why could Sweden organise exercises if we don't? What is the picture of us having such a conversation outwards? The pre-emption of the possibility of exercises is modern Finnishism. We must always ask what is in Finland's interests. It's not that they're taking us to the gray zone. We do not have armed forces and exercises to prepare for war, but, above all, to avoid war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u89	Mr President! Of course, this international exercise is a vital part of maintaining our defence capability. It relates to the tasks in which we are involved in international crisis management and we can continue to be involved and must be involved. It is also related to the fact that each exercise also provides Finland's own defence with the skills and skills needed. But it is also understandable that military training always has political meanings and effects. In this respect, it is not necessarily the defence force itself that is exercising that consideration, but it must take place on the part of the political leadership. Now, when asked why major military exercises are needed in Finland, I do not think it is right to give the message that Finnish defence is dependent on something other than the forces that are primarily our own, which are available in all crisis situations. We give the wrong impression of Finland's defence and Finnish security policy if we maintain the illusions that troops would come from a distance when we were in a crisis situation. Of course we do exist and must also be prepared to receive and receive help if needed, but that is not the basic line of Finnish security policy, and I do not see that we should in any way now, with new openings in this situation, mark something quite different than what the Finnish security policy has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u90	Mr President! Finland is currently involved in more than 80 international military co-operation exercises, and this does not open up any new dimension that would mean something dramatic in the use of force or in its proportions, but that all the elements that belong to it would at the same time be practicing these things, because that is the only way to achieve interoperability. As far as this political aspect, to which my colleague, Mrs Tuomioja, refers, is concerned, I would say that the basic objective of Finland's foreign policy in security policy is to maintain stability in our security environment. This is a very important and essential starting point. But there is no stability unless we give everyone in our neighbourhood and our security area the impression that: Under all circumstances, Finland will take care of its own territory, its sovereignty, its inviolability, and it will then also require this deterrence, its deterrence, so that no ticket will interfere with Finland's security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u91	Mr President! That's right. And, as the Parliament has unanimously stated, Finland's security policy aims in all circumstances to try to keep Finland out of military conflicts. One of the key issues then is that we have a clear ability and will to ensure that Finland does not allow its own territory to be used for hostile purposes. It is only now that, when you read all the headlines and interpretations of various military exercises, there is also such a threat element, sending messages to third parties who are not right in this situation in Finland. That is why I think we should stick to the wise line in which exercises and participation in international exercises have been carried out so far, and not change it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u92	Mr President! I think it is important at the moment to pay attention to one essential issue and this is an international improvement in cybersecurity. In this respect, I believe that Finland should move forward quickly. Strengthening the intelligence law and bringing it here to Parliament would be one important issue that should be resolved. Now that these big exercises have come to the question, I would also like to ask the Minister’s point of view then what the minister thinks would then be the significance of these major exercises if they were held in Finland for some reason. And when the chairman of the committee has also spoken about it, does the chairman see any significant open interface in this raising of major exercises to the debate? What would be the merit of the Finnish Defence Forces? Personally, I think it is important that this strengthening of cyber defence capabilities and strengthening of intelligence should be the matter of improving this credibility with a rapid timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u93	Madam Speaker! There is a considerable need for a political assessment here, and I am sure even at the moment, I would say even more than a few years ago, because the situation in this world has also changed somewhat with regard to these exercises. It is therefore important that UTUVA, ministers and the President jointly assess what are the most politically important critical issues. The second, where that political assessment is needed and perhaps a little more than is currently the case, is arms exports. At this point, we also have different thinking that UTUVA had made a decision — and, of course, on behalf of the Ministry of Defence on these smaller arms exports — against the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In my opinion, the political debate may not have gone in the right direction enough if we practice or arms exports give a view that is too crude or otherwise than the political assessment, at least at the level of officials, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example. In this respect, I would like us to have a rather moderate attitude and observation that all this debate is the political influence that appears outwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u94	Madam President! International training activities are needed, that is clear. It has been done for years and decades, and the results have been good and necessary in many respects: knowledge is growing, experience is growing, and so performance is increasing. But I dare to disagree with you a little; we have different kinds of emphasis with the chairman of the committee on whether this would bring a new element to this practice. My own view is that if we are talking about scale, an entirely different scale from a few aircraft, a few carriers or one of the two companies. I myself am the representatives of the generation that have attended the last major military exercises in Finland at the end of the 1980s, when there were tens of thousands of young men holding a gun all over the forests of Lapland. I agree with the opinion of the Judge on the importance of the political message that major military exercises always make. Now we see the auroras and the zapads, their political impact is considerable. When Mr Vikman asked — I think the question ended somehow with the wording 'not understanding' — in this security policy debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u97	Madam President! Minister Niinistö has responded correctly and rapidly to the changed security situation, and in this budget next year the emphasis and orientations of the Defence Report are now being implemented: development of the immediate preparedness and preparedness forces of all branches, the replacement of the capabilities of the Marine and Air Force, the so-called HX project and the Fleet 2020 and the development of new capabilities, intelligence, cyber defence and long-distance action. I welcome the fact that we also have an extensive increase in resources for the Defence Forces and defence. We have been involved in the Aurora military exercise — whether it is called a major exercise or whatever — in training to defend Sweden, how we would help Sweden in a situation where Sweden would be attacked by some foreign authority. In my opinion, the proposal by Minister Niinistö and Mr Kanervan, President Kanerva, for a joint exercise between the various branches of defence is a good and worthy one. Only by practicing will we learn. I do not understand why it would be hostile if we were to train extensively with different branches of defense and with our friends to defend our own country and to receive help. Could you tell me, Minister Niinistö, a little bit about what has been practiced in the Aurora Great War exercise and what benefits have been gained from it for our own troops? I think there is a political message here, and that is that Finland wants to take care of its own country and defend it as long as possible with its own troops, but we are also prepared to ask for:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u98	Mr President! Perhaps I should first like to support this, which has already been raised in this debate in relation to international crisis management and the fact that money has been added to it. The line that these are being reduced must have been an error of assessment at the beginning of the government. However, it is good that, in practice, we are always using additional budgets or even now adding money to the budget book, so that the level has remained high, because just as they are relevant to our own ability and its maintenance, it is also an important task for the world that Finland is part of the international community in the process of solving these crises, looking for solutions to these crises. But then I would really like to raise the issue when the title of gender equality is always mentioned here in the budget book, and here too it says that women's recruitment for military and voluntary military service is promoted, which I think is a good thing. I know that the Minister himself has been in favour of extending the invitations to women, but I would like to see resources put in it as well, because that is not just a wish. In fact, I would see that this obligation of national defence — which applies to everyone regardless of gender, even though in practice it is carried out only by this compulsory military service for men — is much wider. It includes strengthening resilience to crisis, security of supply, civil protection, responding to information impact, responding to hybrid influences, maintaining the functioning of society and a lot of tasks that would be just as suitable for women as for men. I would like to ask whether there are any long-term plans in the Ministry for how we can also involve women in this joint defence duty and the maintenance of operational security in accordance with the broad concept of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u99	Madam President! First of all, on this idea of training: It's exactly what we've been saying here that every exercise sends a message in some direction. The message always has a sender, there is noise between it and the recipient interprets it from his own frame of reference. As an independent country, of course, we have the right to decide freely how we practice and when we practice. Perhaps the greatest weight in this idea presented by Kanerva is worth concentrating on the timing of the possible exercise. It is very important. Minister I would also like to hear quick comments from Niinistö on what kind of political messages and material messages — at this point in time when the Zapad training is over and Aurora is still in progress — what kind of views and lessons to learn from it may have come to Finland from what we should consider. Now, about the material situation: We have made and are making significant improvements to the material situation in the Defence Forces, and that is a good thing. On the other hand, we must also take into account the fact that material issues need to be looked at in a long-term way. We have stock, stored, material that requires constant maintenance to keep it in working order. During the recession, this maintenance had to be tightened and cut. Now I ask: how will the resources for partnerships and material maintenance be sufficient from the perspective of this new budget, bearing in mind, on the other hand, that preparedness requirements have been increasing at the same time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u100	Let us take Mr Skinner and then the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u101	Mr President! There was one very big point raised in Mr Pakkanen's speech, namely cyber competence. If you look at what is happening now in the world and what we face every day, it is happening in that bitspace, and we have a lot of expertise in it in Finland and it is fortunately also in the field of defence management. But my question actually relates to the fact, Minister, that although we can do things within the administration, we are talking about the development of the ict sector — you are also talking about the budget, about making new operating models in your own administrative sector — and all in all, I think that there is one big thing missing in the whole Government, and that is who owns the information security activities we are doing. This is a very big issue at international level, not only in terms of management of cyber transport, but also in terms of who owns it. At the moment, international large listed companies are acting as service providers, there are so many interfaces. How can we ensure that, in a tight spot, we know where the information is? And who finally makes the decisions, where does that information end up?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u102	Minister Niinistö, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u103	Mr President! Mrs Kanerva, chairman of the Committee on Defence, first of all thank you, as well as Mr Kari, Vice-President of the Committee. I will try to answer as many questions as possible. Cooperation with the Committee on Defence is certainly going well. I agree with Mr Kanerva that we have reason to practice the provision and reception of international aid — this is a new statutory task for the Defence Forces and it has been practiced in this Swedish main military exercise in Aurora. This is also in response to Mr Pakkanen. Compatibility, it is an essential part of cooperation, and only by practicing, as Mr Heinonen said, will we learn. Of course, I can come to the Committee on Defence to tell you more about the content of the exercise or the lessons learned from Aurora as long as it has been analyzed. This is also in response to Mr Kiuru. Mr Kari raised this issue of major military training. In practice, that means that we are going to have more rematchers. This is also, I admit, my ulterior motive here. I share this concern about the number of refresher exercises. This 18,000 is at most a satisfactory level, so there is still room for improvement. On the other hand, the machine does not currently produce much more, and I am also concerned about the ability of the Defence Forces staff to cope with this. In that sense, it is a good thing that we get some more money for the contract soldiers, and I hope that we will continue to do so. Representative Pakkanen asked about Finland's participation in international training activities. The programme for next year is currently under preparation and will in due course be adopted by TP-UTVA. But it's about the same level as it was this year. However, it must be remembered all the time that the hard core of defence is being built here in Finland. The crisis management equipment is in place. From what I've been told, safety is not compromised. Mr Paatero questioned the work on voluntary national defence. This task is included in the Government's Defence Report, which states that the National Defence Training Association will be developed as a strategic partner of the Finnish Defence Forces in accordance with the Nordic Code of Conduct. The aim is to strengthen the role of voluntary national defence in local defence and in auxiliary services. The background is a problem in which, due to limited resources and the current organisation of operations, the opportunities for voluntary defence work have not been fully exploited. We could certainly gain more power, especially in terms of local defence and official assistance. But let us first accept this clarification and then start a proper debate. This report will be completed at the end of this month. Representative Mr Mäkipää raised the question of the release of the conscripts, which he has shown with merit since his parliamentary years as a member of the SMP. In 1990, I myself remember receiving 300 marks, and that was a lot of money for a young man. However, this is a matter coming from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, so you have to throw a ball at it. That's a good idea. Representative Judgments and representative Kanerva spoke a little about this major military exercise, and certainly the necessary realism was also brought to this debate by the representative of the Court of Justice. The only thing I can add to the debate is that we will get help if it is of benefit to the donor party, it is shown by history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u106	We can continue the debate, but let us now move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u107	Mr President! First of all, I do not feel that it is justified to support equality primarily within the Defence Forces or the Finnish army, but that there is an extensive civil service obligation in Finland, which is a little bit more different without going into it. It should be said that the Committee on Defence has the idea of taking the issue of civil service as a matter for the committee as a project to be developed in Finland. I will return to this question of military practice that I am disturbed by the terminological, self-intentional fencing around things, for I have understood that in Finland these criteria are quite unanimously experienced. In this respect, it is not justified for us to tear this issue apart in the way that we can now conclude from this debate, for we have needed and need to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u108	Mr President! I personally sign the same thing the chairman of the committee said. On the defence side, we have a broad consensus on key issues, and that is a good thing. Details can be swordd, and they are also suitable for this parliamentary work, and different opinions on the details also increase mutual understanding, bring more perspectives and so on. However, I would like to say briefly about this proposal by Mr Mäkipää on the return of the repatriation money, something which we in the committee have also had on the table from time to time through Mr Mäkipää and a few of our fellow Members: a very worthy idea, and I hope that day will come when we will be able to demonstrate such solidarity to our young conscripts. One more question for the Minister. The one-third principle, the internal structure of the defence budget, has been seriously distorted over the last few years. Even now, according to the budget book, this distortion still seems to exist. At what point would this be balanced? I spoke to a long-standing parliamentarian who said that there was still a principle in the house in the '90s.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u109	Madam President! The draft budget is well drafted and it is a good thing that there is an increase in previous appropriations. In my opinion, the Ministry has been very successful in drawing up the budget, and in particular by observing the work of Minister Niinistö in the changed security environment of recent times, it can be said that the action has been taken and the right measures have been taken to enable us to adapt properly to change and to develop our defence capabilities. I would also like to thank Minister Niinistö, and also Minister Orpo, for the fact that the budget of the National Defence Training Association is at last in the draft budget as it should be that we are not trying to pinch a few hundred tonnes of it again. We have been in this Chamber every year for an unholy play in which the savings of the Ministry of Finance on behalf of Parliament are then returned to the budget. Thank you for that. I would also have asked about cyber warfare. Other countries are investing heavily in this,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u110	Mr President! Actually, I could pick up on that cybersecurity thing where Congressman Kopra left off. I would have asked how the Defence Forces see, how the Minister sees whether we have sufficient resources and, above all, what is the division of labour and then the cooperation, because these situations are often not necessarily targeted. Armed forces inside, but they pose a threat to security and danger. Now, if you think that even if our data traffic or our train traffic or someone is involved with this, then it is not in itself a matter for the Defence Forces, but it matters to our security and it can be these asymmetrical means of warfare. How does this chain now work for us, and what is actually the place where we should also increase human resources to ensure this? It is not necessarily the Defence Forces, but the essential thing is that this chain works here and everyone knows and the briefings are in order. I'd like to hear about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u111	Mr President! Last week, the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, also expressed his ideas on the development of European defence cooperation, and there has been an EU army, among other things, and that is why the EU countries should have the ability to defend themselves without the help of the USA and NATO. I would now like to ask our Minister for Defence how you feel about the EU army. The second question is: President Niinistö in his meeting with the President of Russia a year ago. With Putin, he raised his concerns about transponders and the fact that the safety of the Baltic Sea region has been compromised by the fact that there are flights there without the ability to identify machines. Do you have any information on whether or not the matter has been discussed since this meeting with President Niinistö and whether there has been any progress?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u112	Mr President! After all, since 95, if I remember correctly, women have had voluntary military service possible. After all, this year it took part in whether it was as many as a thousand women, and the women there have also progressed, whether it was a colonel — it was not quite a colonel, but it has progressed. I would like to ask, as has sometimes been said here, whether women should also be obliged to do this. On the other hand, I would like to ask another question: now that the arrivals are in January and July, would there be a need for more of these arrivals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u113	Mr President! Of course, we support the development of defence capability in all the measures we have agreed on together, but we do not want to see any new and different issues being brought into these guidelines through, for example, training. In this regard, the question is that when Finland is not a member of the military alliance, we cannot, of course, be practicing the tasks and also, through exercises, issuing the messages that the military alliance wants to make. We have no one who is automatically obliged to come to Finland for help, nor do we have such an automatic military duty. We have the Treaty of Lisbon, and within it Finland must be prepared to help, how it wants to and how it can, but in such a way that we want to keep it clear that Finland will not be drawn through it for its own sake into any military action. Then again: preparedness is a good thing, a necessary thing, but the other side, influencing conflict prevention, is not a matter for the Ministry of Defence, but I would like to come back to that when it comes to the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because there is a lot to be done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u114	Madam President! In modern times, threats have increased dramatically. Among other things, the situation in the Baltic Sea has changed dramatically, but then on the other hand there are such cyber threats, i.e. various channels of influence that are used in the ict world. I would have asked the Minister for Defence: however, when the funds have been increased there too, do you see that we are at the right level in Finland in the area of cyber-security and the fight against hybrid threats? I am aware, of course, that we are in the process of preparing the intelligence law, and hopefully it will proceed as quickly as possible. But are these means, which we now have, large enough to deal with the threat we have already experienced?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u115	Madam President! Indeed, this intelligence law: now that it is moving from this autumn, from this side and then from the civilian side and its monitoring side, do we have any information on the timetable, how it will proceed next year, or how far it will be moving? This is a good subject for women and for men who are not engaged in military service, and, President-in-Office, I am in favour of this being dealt with in committee, because there are other options than calling out how to increase understanding and crisis management capacity in all kinds of disasters, natural disasters and other things that can happen in the country. Thirdly, we asked this question in writing about the handover of 400 assault rifles to the National Defence Training Association, but what is the situation there now, or is it related to the fact that MPK would become an authority?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u116	There are four more requests for answers: representatives Pakkanen, Vikman, Mika Kari and Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u117	Mr President! Fortunately, Finland has adhered to the general military duty and the principle of defending the country as a whole, and it has been a line that has taken a good time and a change in the operating environment, and there is good reason and good reason to continue along that path. The development of defence capabilities in Finland has been motivated for decades by a strong will to defend the country, and in developing it and taking care of it, it is always worth emphasising the ability of both personnel and the reserve to maintain and maintain up-to-date training. Of course, efforts must be made to make better use of civilian skills of those who are obliged to carry out military work and also of volunteers. There has been a debate here on this report on MPK's tasks. I think it is important that this report is now being carried out. During this autumn, when we hear what has happened and what needs are there, we will have an open debate here in the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u118	Madam President! It is clear that Finland's defence is based on our own independent defence capability, which must be maintained under all circumstances. However, international cooperation is a good addition that strengthens the credibility of our defence. The Defence Forces have a new statutory function, and it is absolutely necessary to practice providing and receiving assistance. We have been practicing Swedish defence, and what harm would it be that we should also practice Finnish defence together? It is essential to ask why Sweden can organise these exercises if we cannot. The preparation of the exercises is a long process, and I ask: is Minister of Defence Niinistö promoting the preparation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u119	Madam President! This is where I mentioned my long-term desire to raise the level of refresher exercises from 18,000, this so-called floor level, as I call it. The Minister calls the level at least reasonable. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u122	Mr President! I myself would like to support the proposal by the chairman of the Committee on Defence that we in the committee should consider how we will ensure that the other half of Finns, that is to say women, have access to the duties of national defence duty to exercise and practice. It is very important, and I personally do not see it as simply an extension of invitations, but it is certainly an opportunity for everyone, women and men, to have their own educational opportunities. But, in fact, I would like to raise one more point, and the Minister has already said a little about it, namely the ability of the staff to cope. We know that the staff of the Defence Forces have been very strict, and it is good that these contract soldiers are being hired there to alleviate this plight. But actually, I would have asked, "What else?" Is it ensured that the level in the future is such that overtime, for example, is not quite unreasonable, as they are now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u123	Minister Niinistö, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u124	Madam President! It was interesting to hear from Mr Kanerva that the issue of civil service is on the agenda of the Committee on Defence as a project of its own. I'll stay and watch it with interest. This is certainly one of the questions of security policy for the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u129	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-22-ps-92.u130	Mr President! As far as the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, I think that the draft budget should draw attention, among other things, to the fact that the government intends to pay for the construction of the electronic charging infrastructure by the public by allocating funds to promote electronic infrastructure in the form of grants. The True Finns believe that the building responsibilities of the electronic charging infrastructure should not be paid to the public so that it does not impose an additional burden on everyone, including completely uncarried citizens, as an increase in housing costs or an increase in housing prices. The forcing of all households to build a charging infrastructure cannot be regarded as an economic or otherwise sensible solution. Mr President! And then about the wood construction. After all, this increase of EUR 2 million has been allocated to wood construction in the draft budget, which we Finns in Finland welcome with joy. We can also be international guides to wood construction in Finland, as even from Asia, for example, Finnish log construction is already being visited. The key to developing the competence of wood construction is also to take into account traditional construction and to increase the use of natural materials, which I would like to pay more attention to. They are a growing trend and also one possible solution to combat indoor air problems. However, the Finns of Peru would have liked to see a continuation of five years of moisture and molding, as around 800,000 Finns still suffer from indoor problems on a daily basis, either at work, at home or in schools, for example. The indoor air problems call for radical measures, as the current building of energy efficiency and cost-effective and hastily run the risk of creating only more problems that make more and more Finns sick. Mr President! I therefore have to express my concern that the Ministry of the Environment's objective of promoting almost zero energy construction may be at risk of retaliating itself at a later date, and that is why it might be sensible to review these objectives. Here, too, there is once again an EU directive which forces Member States to steer construction in a more energy-efficient direction. And, of course, as a model country of the European Union, Finland has once again been slavishly using the directive much earlier than other countries, even at the risk that zero-energy construction, if implemented poorly, could endanger the health of Finns and create additional burdens for taxpayers. The reverse of this may therefore be the introduction of high-risk structures and, at worst, an explosive home epidemic in new buildings. Of course, this is not what we want in Finland. Mr President! Here are some thoughts.
