ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 8/2017, it is now decided on the basis of the opinion on the report. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 24 May 2017. In the debate, Emma Kari Antero Vartia has suggested that Parliament approve the statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 30 May 2017. In the debate, Jukka Gustafsson, supported by Pia Viitanen, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u3	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 24 May 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u4	Mr President! We'll make a change to section 5. In accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u5	Mr President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u6	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u7	The sixth item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of changes in the foreign and security policy and the EU environment. Presentation by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä and Foreign Minister Timo After Mr Soin's speech, we will have a round of group talks, then we will go to the debate and we will have replies. Answers are reserved by V-button. Three hours have been set aside to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u8	Mr President! We all recognize that we live in the midst of powerful changes. The world around us has changed quickly and irreversibly. The aim of foreign and security policy is to safeguard Finland's independence, strengthen our international position, guarantee the safety and well-being of Finns and ensure the functioning of society. Finland promotes international stability, peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality. The main objective is to prevent military conflict. These objectives and objectives serve as a guiding principle for the government in all situations. The Government's line is Finland's long line and the same as when the Government Programme is being implemented. Finland is a non-military country that implements practical partnerships with NATO and maintains the possibility of applying for NATO membership. Mr President! One of the key events since the completion of the Foreign and Security Policy Report has been the presidential elections in the United States. The new US administration is just about to settle down, and the rest of the world has been waiting for their policies, but not all the questions have been clarified. President Trump's visit to Europe last week left a lot of questions rather than answers. The Administration of President Trump has previously confirmed the United States' commitment to European security, but this was not heard from Trump himself at the NATO meeting last week. Obviously, failure to say so left a feeling of uncertainty, and this weekend, Chancellor Merkel of Germany honestly described his feelings. However, a direct statement should not be overdramatised. The fact that European NATO countries should do more for European security has long been the view of the United States. It has also been an organization’s own goal. However, there is no major change or change in the US foreign and security policy in the big picture. Finland is particularly interested in US policies on trade policy and climate issues. We still have to wait for trade policy policies, but the new positioning of the United States in climate policy is worrying. It would be in the interests of Finland, Europe and the world to keep the United States committed to the Paris climate agreement. In this respect, development cannot be changed by blinding. Mr President! The security situation in Europe has not changed substantially since last summer. The situation in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine has not changed for the better. The formula would be clear — implementation of the Minsk Treaty and respect for the territorial integrity of Ukraine — but we have not seen any progress. That is why the EU's sanctions policy will continue. At the same time, bilateral dialogue with Russia is essential. No one beats not talking about problems. The direction of Turkey has raised many questions. It is equally clear that Turkey is of great importance to Europe. This has been seen very concretely in cooperation on migration, among other things. Turkey's European orientation is particularly important to us and must also be reflected in respect for European commitments. The rule of law is a key cornerstone of European order and there are no exceptions to it – otherwise there will be no exceptions within the EU. Even at the beginning of the 21st century, it was said that Europe was surrounded by a circle of stability. Not anymore. The Syrian war continues for seven years. The activities of the terrorist organisation Isil overshadowed the whole region and are increasingly reflected in the internal security of European countries. Further participation of Finland International cooperation against Isil will be discussed in this Chamber later today. Cooperation between the EU and NATO has received a good start from the Joint Declaration of Organisations last July. We have ourselves supported the deepening of this cooperation in a very concrete way through the establishment of a hybrid competence centre in Finland linking the EU and NATO countries. EU membership is a key security policy solution for Finland. Its significance is only emphasised when we live in uncertain times. The Parliament was very clear about the EU security guarantees less than ten years ago. Mr President! Issues related to sustainable development, the environment and climate are global issues of destiny and therefore also cross-cutting themes in Finland's foreign policy. We can take them from a very specific point of view now that we have received the Presidency of the Arctic Council. Arctic issues are also part of our EU policy and also have a strong interface with Nordic cooperation. Cooperation between Finland and Sweden has also progressed well over the past year. We are in close contact at different levels, both at political level and at civil service level. Defence cooperation has progressed as planned. Together, we have achieved a special status as NATO partners, and we are involved in the discussions of the organisation on the Baltic Sea region. A good example of this is Finland's initiative to improve air safety in the Baltic Sea, which has also contributed to the dialogue between NATO and Russia. Mr President! Membership of the European Union was once a political choice for Finland, by which we were increasingly committed to the Western community of values. The main task of the European Union is to ensure peace, security, prosperity and the rule of law on our continent. The need to carry out these basic tasks has not gone anywhere. The difference between Britain and the EU affects Finland in many ways. In preparation for the negotiations on the divorce agreement, Finland has advocated a line that would safeguard our interests and at the same time protect the Union. We welcome the unity with which the EU27 countries have made progress in their preparations. There are no winners in this process. Britain has been and will continue to be an important partner for Finland. Only later will we see the negative economic, political or security effects that Brexit will have on Finland. In the aftermath of the British referendum last June, we launched a political reflection by the Heads of State on the development of the EU-27. It was completed in March in Rome by a declaration on the future of the EU. The Rome Declaration is in line with the objectives we have pursued and promoted at the meetings of the Heads of State and Government at national level. Five discussion papers published by the Commission on the social dimension, the management of globalisation, EMU, defence and financial frameworks are also linked to the EU's debate on the future. In the debate on the future of the EU, the main focus is now on concrete development projects. In line with the Rome Declaration, the focus is on four main areas: economic growth, social issues, security and global challenges. A few words about the four development projects mentioned above: First, the economy. A strong internal market and free trade are key instruments for promoting growth. Finland is actively working to secure the conditions for free trade at European and global level. The functioning of the internal market requires continuous work, inter alia, to make full use of digital opportunities. There is also much to do and much to gain in the internal energy market. Influencing climate and energy policy is timely and important. It is in Finland’s interest that we are a pioneer in these matters. In this context, the sustainable use of forests must not be hampered by theoretical accounting rules in the land use sector. The starting point is that the difference in Britain is fully taken into account in the overall level of the financial framework. It is essential for us that the financial framework continues to support economic growth, employment and knowledge. Regional and structural policy must take into account Finland's remoteness and sparsely populated areas. Agriculture must be able to operate in a profitable way in all the Member States of the Union. At the same time, responding to migration and strengthening defence cooperation are new issues where EU funding is needed. Mr President! Economic and monetary union has been developed in many ways in recent years as a result of the financial crisis and the debt crisis. Member States must comply with the agreed rules and implement their own structural reforms to balance public finances. At present, it is a priority to finalise the work, particularly with regard to the Banking Union, and to implement the reforms. Finland is not in favour of greater solidarity, nor is it in favour of more risk sharing in the banking sector. Investor responsibility must also be maintained. Another development is the social dimension. We need to be able to create a fairer and more equal Europe, for example by improving the position of women and creating models for reconciling work and family life. Strengthening the social dimension of the EU does not require new instruments or processes at EU level. Furthermore, Finland does not accept the creation of transfer mechanisms between EU countries. The third element relates to security — both internal and external. In order to combat cross-border threats to internal security, in particular terrorism, we need to step up cooperation, improve the exchange of information and find new means. Defence cooperation is a good example of an issue whose promotion brings added value but which does not require Treaty changes. All the conditions are already in place, including, where appropriate, different pace. Deepening European defence cooperation is a natural development. Europe must be more able to manage its security and defence together and contribute to the stabilisation of its neighbourhood. Each Member State must shoulder its own responsibilities. Finland is strongly involved in this work. The aim is to agree on closer cooperation on resources between willing and capable Member States through so-called permanent structured cooperation, to examine the development of national defence capabilities in a coherent way, to set up a dedicated military staff for training operations — in this way as a first step — and to improve the EU's ability to act in crisis management. As regards permanent structured cooperation, Finland has put forward concrete project proposals such as space cooperation projects, marine defence, logistics forces and the improvement of the EU's cyber defence capability. We will explore opportunities for cooperation with potential partners and continue national mapping. On cyber security, for example, I have spoken to several colleagues. Mr President! The fourth theme is global challenges. Globalisation and in particular digitalisation change the economic environment and the conditions for growth also outside traditional foreign trade sectors. Globalisation will not only increase competition but will fundamentally shape international markets, business structures, operating models and the conditions for value creation. In the EU, we must be able to take advantage of these opportunities of globalisation to defend our values, interests and interests, and to achieve sustainable growth and employment. Managing and responding to migration is a global problem. As far as migration is concerned, it is both a matter of dealing with the acute situation within the EU and of creating more permanent solutions. We need to be able to influence the root causes of migration more effectively, develop border security and require proportionate involvement of all Member States in burden sharing. Mr President! Finland needs to prepare for the EU reform to take off, perhaps now, but it will. We are actively involved in this work. Under the Government Programme, the Union needs to be reformed and improved, but the government does not consider it timely to amend the Treaties. The starting point for the EU's reflection on the future has been that Treaty changes are not discussed in this context. The conditions for more efficient operations have existed without a process that lasts for years, even a decade. For example, we could already make wider use of qualified majority voting. The European Union must, above all, develop unity in the elections. If necessary, however, progress can also be made at different paces within the Union. Even in those situations, the provisions of the Treaties must be respected and the doors opened to all Member States and at all stages of development must be kept open. Finland participates in all relevant EU projects where this is justified by the interests and influence of our country. Consideration is always made on a case-by-case basis, and so far Finland has been involved in all of these. The Union must focus on the essentials, implement its decisions and dismantle red tape. The European Union must be large and small in small matters. Mr President! One of the stages of history is under way. Typical of these transitions is that many international rules of the game do not work or are not respected. Moreover, the stages of transition will not last forever, but will inevitably end in establishing common rules or building a new one. This is why we must never give up hope at the turning point in history. Finland is not a bystander in this transition phase either, but an active influencer. It is important that, with an active foreign and security policy, we play our part in building a more stable, secure and fairer world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u9	Secretary of State Soini, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u10	Mr President! The Prime Minister has stated that our fundamental foreign and security policy environment is an overview, with a view to deepening this in a few respects. The instability in the neighbourhood is an important factor in migration to Europe. At the same time, our neighbourhood is a source of refugees as a transit route. We must look beyond our borders and beyond our borders. Climate change and many other challenges undermine living conditions in Africa, population growth is strong, conflicts are tormented by many countries. Our time calls for comprehensive solutions to both conflict and development. This is the only sustainable way that must be reflected in both the EU and the UN. As a neighbour, we have a continent whose growing population is calculated in billions: currently around 1.1 billion, in 2050 about 2.4 billion. Without development and security, there is no real prospect of reducing migratory pressure. We have to face the challenges where they are. In concrete terms, this means work, security and, above all, hope for African young people. Mr President! Europe's neighbourhood is characterised by instability. The brutal war in Syria continues. Syria, Iraq, Libya and Yemen are also going through important humanitarian crises. Finland’s participation in crisis management is an important concrete measure to support stability. The use of chemical weapons in Syria was shocking. The United States is determined to react to the use of weapons. The investigation is continuing. Actions must have consequences, and those responsible must be held accountable. Weapons of mass destruction are major issues for the international community. North Korea is unacceptable. This was one of the key issues when this week Finland hosted a conference on nuclear weapons and their proliferation and nuclear tests. The new US administration seems to have a stronger grip on the Syrian crisis than before, but the resolution of the Syrian war also requires a commitment from Russia and Iran. The only sustainable solution is based on a political basis. The future of Syria cannot be solved by weapons. The United States is investing more and more in the fight against terrorism, particularly the defeat of Isil, and of course we are involved in these efforts, including the Iraq operation, which will be discussed later today. Mr President! The result of the US presidential election has changed the political landscape, especially the way we speak. But as we take a closer look, the great line is in continuity. Admittedly, this is sometimes difficult to understand through publicity. The language is hard, too hard for diplomacy. Changes are also coming, for example, to UN funding and development funding in a significant way, and this is a major challenge for the UN system and its functionality and ability to help. That is why the new UN Secretary-General, Mr Guterres, needs our support. She has good priorities, including conflict prevention, mediation and the position of women, which Finland has long supported. [Department : Refugees! ] Mr President! The Prime Minister referred to cooperation between Finland and Sweden. This work is progressing well, and there is a strong will on both sides. Defence is an important part of cooperation, but at the same time it must be pursued on a broad front. The spirit of cooperation must also be reflected in foreign policy, and I work with Mr Wallström on this. The changes in Europe highlight the need for closer cooperation between Finland and Sweden. Security in the Baltic Sea region, Russia policy, European security and defence policy and deepening it, the Arctic region are all issues that require not only Finland's own vision but also our joint action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u11	All right, now let us take the speeches of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u12	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister and the Government for the fact that, in the midst of major changes in the world, our position is as if updated — the proposals were varied and clear. First of all, our environment is indeed changing, and we must say straight away that it also poses dangers: war is being waged in the Middle East. In Ukraine, the crisis is unresolved and has caused our relationship with our important neighbour Russia to be neither normal nor normal. North Africa is still restless after the Arab Spring. Africa as a whole is full of challenges and, as the Foreign Minister said, is producing migration. Terrorism is looking for a basis for all this unrest. And then there is climate change, which is a huge problem for all. The conclusion of all this must be very simple and clear: we must be able to influence the change in our environment. And the best way to influence it effectively is through international cooperation, above all through a viable and united European Union. It's the strongest operator at our disposal. Secondly, the Brexis need to be glaringly passed, and then we need to establish good cooperation in Britain — after all, a very simple thing, but difficult to implement. The third point is that a small country, like the EU and the UN, needs to be able to rely on international agreements, respect for them and international organisations for its protection and security. For a country like us, it would not be useful for them to fall apart and return, as it were, piece by piece to a world of great powers and to a Europe of great powers. There is no point in building a confrontation between national sovereignty and international cooperation. It does not serve the interests of a small country. The emphasis on this is now important because so many key players in practice are heading in the other direction: Russia violated international agreements by taking over Crimea. Instead of multilateralism, the USA is seeking bilateral action, reducing the UN's operating grants. Even the British willfully undermine the European Union's ability to act. Too many developments are moving in the direction that it is becoming more and more difficult to manage these growing challenges in our environment. Fourthly, I would like to highlight the need for stability in our immediate environment. If things are wrong elsewhere, we must be particularly active in keeping our neighbourhood out of crisis. In recent weeks there has been a colorful and somewhat confusing public debate on how we view the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon on mutual assistance. I believe that the answer to this must be very clear, as the main words say: it will be decided on a case-by-case basis, and the agreement will clearly bind us. It is clear that we cannot promise military aid, but when we say so, the limit must be kept in that we must not say that we are not helping others. If we ever want to be able to get help from others, we must be consistent with those we would expect help from ourselves. It always depends on political will, solidarity and mutual cohesion. This confidence must be built on a long-term and consistent basis. A united and capable Europe is indeed our advantage. Now that the British are leaving the Union and the US policy less predictable, the need for a more independent and viable European Union, the Union of 27 countries, will naturally be emphasised. And there seems to be a desire for this in France and Germany. The important question for Finland is whether the Union will be developed jointly or through differentiation. As the Prime Minister said, both routes are in place. We want to be involved in this development, and in particular, if we link this issue of differentiation with this, we could say, on a political issue, that the Union should act more independently and more independently after Brexit and the USA's relationship difficulties, it would lead us to the conclusion that Finland needs to drive a united Union of all 27 countries. When it comes to political issues, glue has to last. If, on major political issues, we accept the process of differentiation, the glue between the Member States will weaken and weaken the Union's influence. Migration is a bad example of difficulties in making rational and effective decisions under strong cross-pressure between citizens. The paradox, after all, is that those who most protest against uncontrolled migration are, unfortunately, the least in favour of strengthening concerted action at European level. Now is the time for a moderate majority in Europe to take hold of activities that respect human dignity and produce results. Finland must act in this respect on a value-based basis and with results. Finland’s place is to help those in need, and the best means must be sought through cooperation. Mr President! In the end, there are many things that determine values. World development continues to bring out arrangements where half is also chosen at the level of values. It is just that in these great issues, in the great choices, in part the value base developed over thousands of years, refined by the message of enlightenment and subsequent freedom, brotherhood and equality brings together those whose cooperation and support we also need. In this choice, we do not need to hesitate about our place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u13	Mr President! Finland's foreign policy aims to strengthen its international position and improve the safety and well-being of Finns, as stated in the Government's report on foreign and security policy issued a year ago. In world politics, we have seen a change in the security policy environment, Trump's election victory, the growth of Islamic extremism in Europe and the migration crisis. The EU too has faced the deepest crisis of its existence when Britain decided to withdraw from the Union. So a lot is happening. In the management of foreign policy, party politics must be put aside and the interests of the whole country must be considered. There are lines, and we need to be able to discuss them openly. Such parliamentary debates are likely to strengthen the common vision of our foreign policy. How should Finland view the changes that are taking place? The recently deceased president Koivisto said very well: "It is important to have influence over as many international affairs as possible in your own hands: it is only necessary to compromise sovereignty as much as is necessary." President Koivisto has left behind a foreign policy line which, in my view, still holds many points. The trend towards the west has been the goal of Finland's foreign policy since the second half of the 19th century. Many of the visions and goals that were created over time have come true. Finland is 100 years old this year, and our foreign policy position is, I dare say, stronger than ever before. Mr President! Where do we want the EU to go, what is its future? In many EU countries, the people have been opposed to EU integration and supranational powers that reduce national power. The Finns have succeeded in ensuring that respect for the sovereignty of the nation states has also been better taken into account in Finland's EU policy. We are more conscious and in a good way more nationalistic in relation to the EU. Brexit shouldn't be echoing in deaf ears. [Riitta Myller’s interlude] As a non-military country, Finland has raised the issue of promoting joint EU defence projects. This could include joint procurement and research projects, for example. It would be particularly important to develop defence cooperation between the EU and NATO in a complementary direction. The EU’s strengths are in civilian crisis management, development policy and environmental cooperation. However, there is no reason to expect defence cooperation that significantly improves Finland’s security. The most tangible benefits of defence cooperation would be expected to be economic. We also believe that the prevention of exclusion is at its best a security policy. The new President of the United States, Donald Trump, has been seen as unpredictable and has been feared to change the foreign policy and attitude of the United States towards Europe. Trump's foreign policy line is still partly obscured, but the worst scenarios of his choice do not seem to be realised. Trump is trying to reform US trade policy more in a more favourable direction for his country. In the area of security, however, positions on NATO have been softened and the mouth of Minister of Defence, Mr Mattis, has assured us that the United States is not withdrawing from European defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u14	Mr President! I think this is the first time I have had the opportunity to talk about this toilet as a Member of Parliament, which gives a certain freedom which perhaps never existed before as a minister, so whatever I say from now on, do not, by any means, accuse the government. If what I say sounds good, thank my group, if bad, blame me. Today we are going to talk about a change in the security environment. If this speech is anything, it is a defence to international liberalism, it is a defence to an open debate on security policy and it is a defence to Finnish security. I will do so in three ways: first I will reflect on a few key dates and on the years that have led us to this situation, then I will go through three changes and finally I will make six specific proposals. Those three key dates are worth going through in history. The first one is 1945. Why? Because that was the end of World War II and the world order that Finland is currently in the midst of was built. The ideological world of dual pressure was born: the Soviet Union against the United States with its allies. A new international system and international institutions were created, which have also been our support and protection. It was an ideological age. Another date when I actually grew up in this world, and I have had the pleasure of living in this era, is 1989 and the end of the Cold War, when the market economy, liberal democracy and globalisation won the Soviet Union, authoritarian regimes, the planned economy and communism. Then we lived in such an era of hope, the East faced the West again, the EU expanded, NATO expanded, Mandela was released, the Cold War ended, the Soviet Union broke down. Some spoke of the end of history, of all countries becoming liberal democracies, but unfortunately did not. The third date — I do not know whether this is as important but important — is 2016. Of course there have been others along the way, the attacks on the World Trade Center 2001, the war in Georgia 2008, the financial crisis 2008, Russia's attack on Crimea and Ukraine in 2014, but I dare still argue that our Western way of life, liberal democracy and freedom in 2016 is just as important as 1945 and 1989. Of course, this is due to two major entities, one of which was the Brexit and the other was the election of the President of the United States, Donald Trump. In other words, we are currently in a world where the entire Western system is being challenged and called into question. We are in a world of instability, and instability is always a problem for a small country such as Finland. What, then, are the three main effects? The first is a global impact, and it is that the United States, I do not believe in it, is no longer able to be a global leader. A country that says 'no' to globalisation, a country that says 'yes' to protectionism, a country that wants to build walls, a country that believes in protectionism, simply cannot lead to this. Then we will end up in a situation where a vacuum of power will be created. At the moment, it is a question of who fills its power vacuum and what form it takes. Will the European Union be able to do that? What's China doing? What is Russia doing in the area of trade, security, climate change, for example? [Interjection] The second amendment concerns the EU. As stated earlier, Brexit will change the essence of the EU as a whole. For the first time, a Member State, a great one, is leaving the EU. I personally believe that France and Germany will form the same type of axis that was formed in the 1950s and will largely lead this process. I strongly believe that there are only common solutions to immigration, the euro, the fight against terrorism and the economy. If we have common problems at European level, we can only find common solutions. For Europe, what worries me most is the fact that there are Member States today that challenge the fundamental values of Europe, and these are of course what we must defend. Thirdly, of course, the impact on Finland. Instability always brings uncertainty. We ourselves, both during this Parliament and during previous governments — almost every party — have been involved in this struggle, whether it be immigration flows, the economic crisis that began in 2008, the security situation. But for myself, I would see that wisdom rests on old reflections: in the line that existed during Paasikivi and Kekkonen, which kept us safe, in the line that was drawn in their own way by Koivisto, Aho, for example, Suominen, the Salolainen, who brought us to this Western community to which we belong, and ultimately in the line that was driven by Lipponen and Ahtisaari, which took us to the heart of the EU. We are living in a transformation, insecurity, and it is not worth underestimating. This brings me to the last six proposals within 1 minute: 1) We must defend Western values: human dignity, respect for human rights, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. 2) We must do everything we can to strengthen international institutions — the UN, the WTO, NATO and the OSCE. 3) We must deepen and dare to deepen EU cooperation, whether it be four freedoms, security, immigration, defence or the euro. 4) We must support international law, whether it be the crisis in Georgia, the Crimea or Ukraine. If a country such as Finland loses faith in international law and international institutions, we will be subjected to a policy of great power. 5) We need to be ready for change, and that change can happen surprisingly quickly. This is why maintaining the NATO option, for example, is important. (6) We must foster good bilateral relations — with the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries, the United States, Russia, China and Britain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u15	Mr President! Foreign and security policy must live in time. This debate on the environment, based on the Prime Minister's announcement, is therefore appropriate. Since last June's report, the most important ones have been the forces of change that started in Brexit and the spill-over effects of the US presidential change on security, trade and climate policy. The European situation is marked by the EU's debate on the future and the implementation of the EU's global strategy, which marks a new stage in EU security and defence cooperation. There are also new winds in multilateral cooperation. The new UN Secretary-General has made peace diplomacy, conflict prevention and peace-building a priority for the World Organisation. A new security dialogue has begun within the OSCE on the basis of the German arms control initiative. Finland has started as President of the Arctic Council. Mr President! The Socialist Group in Parliament raises three aspects of the debate, which also include hopes for government action. The first is the attempt to clarify Finland's international position, the second relates to concrete objectives to combat the negative effects of globalisation, and the third concerns peace policy and the strengthening of the UN. In recent weeks, there has been talk of Finland’s European choice — how At the end of the Cold War, Finland made its choice of its own position clearly and without hesitation. Finland's place at the heart of the EU was established both in our own minds and in the perceptions of our partners. The clarity of choices has been important for Finland’s international status. We also need clear messages today — about Finland’s membership in Europe and the West. We want to be part of the European security community, which means mutual assistance and solidarity. The deepening of EU security and defence cooperation and the strengthening of EU-NATO cooperation in the age of hybrid threats are also well suited to this picture. Anticipating future developments is important. If integration slides towards a different pace of the EU, Finland must try to influence all tables. Now is not the time to wait for the views of the large Member States on the future of the Union, but now is the time for Finland's initiative, even if together with the other Nordic countries. Clear messages are also needed from our value base. Transatlantic cooperation has been based on common values that respect democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Operators who question these values should not make concessions on either side of the Atlantic. Mr President! Over the last few months there have been concerns about the rise of populism and nationalism around the world. In the presidential elections in the United States, the pro-globalisation and free trade were counter-square. Globalisation has led to an increase in inequality to the extent that the political legitimacy of globalisation is at risk. The challenge must be taken seriously in Europe when only 55% of Europeans see globalisation as an opportunity and 45% as a threat. The negative effects of globalisation must be combated if we are to successfully defend an open economy and an open society. We need an in-depth analysis of the benefits and disadvantages of globalisation and of the political agenda for the second phase of globalisation. This transformation of globalisation must be seen as one of the EU's main objectives. In parallel with the social dimension of the EU, there are places for action within the UN, the G20 and the OECD. Finland must take leadership in the implementation of the policy on managing globalisation. For example, the government should play a strong role in improving anti-tax evasion and avoidance rules. The action plan against international tax evasion adopted by the Katainen Government and the political statement adopted by the Sipilä Government this spring would provide a good basis for active engagement. Finland must contribute to the fact that the recently announced pillar of social rights in the EU will not remain a mere declaration but will result in concrete measures, for example, to improve workers' rights and equality. Economic and monetary union must also be developed more strongly in support of growth and employment, but each country will continue to bear its own debts. Mr President! The legacy of mediation and peace-keeping is part of the Finnish identity. Conflict prevention, mediation, crisis management and peace building belong to Finland's way of being among nations. With the work of peace, we also influence the root causes of forced migration. Migration can also be influenced by combating climate change, promoting sustainable development and supporting development cooperation. The EU, together with the African Union, should look for concrete measures to combat youth unemployment. The cycle of exclusion must be turned into a circle of hope. Strengthening the role of women in peace building is also a suitable priority for Finland. Multilateral cooperation plays a key role in ensuring peace and security. The crisis in Iraq shows well how short-term results will be achieved by unilateral action. Strengthening the UN is our common interest. It is an important tool for all countries, even if they are primarily seeking to improve their national security. We can contribute to the EU's taking the strengthening and reform of the UN as one of the top priorities of its foreign policy. Mr President! As the EU’s security environment changes and globalisation criticism increases, Finland’s European, foreign and security policy is expected to be clear about our role as Western democracy, leadership in deepening the European security community, active action in the management of globalisation by combating inequalities and support for peace policy and strengthening multilateral cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u16	Mr President! The visit of U.S. President Trump to Europe was not a warm encounter of old partners. There was a meeting of common-carrying soil, but they couldn't find it. At the same time, the European Union is in a situation where its future is uncertain. British departure has forced us to face fundamental questions: what kind of Europe do we want? Are we building it together or separately? When the Foreign and Security Policy Report was completed a year ago, we knew that there were going to be changes. Still, they may not know how big they would be. Things we are used to seeing as clear — the EU's unity, the Paris climate agreement, the basic principles of NATO, the UN and its financing — have suddenly been called into question. Known landmarks have disappeared, which way we're looking. Mr President! Respect for human rights, the rule of law, equality and democracy are the basis on which the EU was built 60 years ago. It brought a dream of peace and a better tomorrow for millions of Europeans devastated by war. Today too many people have lost faith in the Union — rightly so. Right-wing economic discipline policy has guided the benefits of globalisation to a few. It has created space for the growth of right-wing populism. The European Union is now looking in its direction, faced with internal and external pressures. However, the crisis is always an opportunity. That is what we must now take together. We must return to our common values and start building on them today's European dream of a good tomorrow. That is what we need a Union for. We need to build a Europe that is capable of meeting global challenges, of providing security for its citizens and reducing inequalities, a Europe that citizens feel is their own and that guarantees them good everyday life, work and education, a Europe in which the well-being of people and the environment is at the heart of economic policy. We need to strengthen the social dimension of the EU. The Union must take the Nordic welfare model as its leader at this time, updated. We need to create a framework for a genuine democracy in which citizens decide on the direction of the Union. This is what Finland must strive for in the EU, and that is what we must also aim for at home. We Greens are committed to this Union now and in the future. Mr President! The people of Europe, stand on your own feet, do not trust the help of a stranger — this was Angela Merkel’s message after Trump’s visit. It is a strong message and a monumental task for Europe. Now if ever we need a strong Union. Now if we ever need leadership. When the cold war melted in Finland's foreign policy came spring, President Koivisto led us without hesitation on the road that took us into Europe and the Union. During the Prime Minister's term in Lipponen, we actively sought at the heart of Europe. We realized that together we could be more. This understanding is needed again. Finland's EU policy is not led by process diagrams and the government is not led by flirting with the EU. We cannot drift like driftwood; we must actively influence the EU. Mr President! The Greens believe that EU cooperation can be deepened at a different pace, as long as we ensure that those countries that are not ready at once will be able to join later. In the presidential elections, the French chose Macron and co-operation. For the first time in a long time, the core countries of the Union, France and Germany, seem ready to seize the helm and pilot the Union into new waters. The Greens believe that Finland's place is in the vanguard. That is the only way we will be able to influence what Europe is going to be like. Mr President! A year ago, we knew that Putin's Russia has chosen a policy of force. Now it seems that with Trump's United States of America, we will return to the mutual demonstration of power between the great powers. Nuclear weapons have experienced a new coming. Russia is developing missiles banned by the nuclear treaties. Trump tweets that the United States needs a stronger nuclear capability. North Korea has been conducting successful missile tests. We live in a time when nuclear disarmament is needed again. That is something that Finland must promote. Mr President! Europe must also stand on its own feet in foreign and security policy. Now a historic window has been opened for the construction of a common EU defence. If we join forces, we will be able to develop permanent structures and capabilities that no EU country would be able to do alone. This is what Finland needs to be driving strongly. Power politics doesn't always require guns. Russia has sought to direct democratic elections by means of information influence. In the United States, it was a success. In France, they already knew how to respond to the influence companies. The President will be elected in Finland next year. An attempt to influence the election cannot be ruled out. Means are needed to identify and respond effectively to information impact. Mr President! This week the United States has promised to tell us whether it will commit itself to the Paris climate agreement. Whatever the outcome, it will not stop the fight against climate change. China has already increased its production of renewable energy. In the United States, responsible companies understand fossil risks, even though the President does not. The insidiousness of the United States demands that we share greater responsibility with others. At the same time, it is an opportunity for the EU to become a pioneer in climate policy. Macron has already welcomed the climate scientists that Trump banished to France. Finland too needs to believe in researchers so that we can achieve our own emissions targets. Environmental protection has often been able to work together even when, by the way, things are cool. Finland's neighbourhood cooperation with Russia must be stepped up in environmental matters, as halting climate change is urgent. The Presidency of the Arctic Council also opens up a good opportunity for Finland to promote environmental protection. Mr President! Our fate depends on the will to commit to cooperation, not isolation. The choice of the Greens is clear. Hopefully the whole of Finland will be the same choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u17	Mr President! The EU is looking for a direction, and Brexit is eating away at the foundations of the Union. The EU is breaking down, and Hungary and Poland are flagrantly violating the Union's fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy. It is unlikely that the Union will break up with the British EU, but the countries of the Union must now realistically awaken to the state of the EU and change the direction of the Union. The main problem facing the EU is that citizens do not feel that it is theirs. And it's no wonder. The Union will focus on promoting market freedoms instead of people's well-being and livelihoods. Political change is the only way to restore legitimacy and continue to exist in the EU. The way in which the euro countries deal with the economic crisis in a poorly functioning way that ignores the human consequences has been a shameful stage in the history of the Union. As a result of the crisis measures, the problems of the German and French banks were socialised on the shoulders of European taxpayers, forcing the countries of crisis into a cutting policy that deepened the recession and unemployment and worsened the debt situation. Mr President! Brexit support was a protest against the political elite. It was a message from people who feel that they have lost a positive outlook and an opportunity to influence decisions about their own lives. It was a protest against unemployment and the dismantling of services. The result of the vote was also based on disinformation and xenophobia, but Brexit also tells us that in the eyes of the citizens the EU has not been able to deliver on its promises of improving well-being. Mr President! European decision-making structures are needed to solve the major problems that cross national borders, such as climate change and the tax haven economy, and to bring together the fragmented resources of European countries. However, the EU's problems should not be blindfolded, but must be corrected. The Left believes that the EU should be reformed to protect people and welfare states from tax havens and wage dumping. Social rights, solving environmental problems and people's well-being must be placed at the heart of EU policy. In the last year there have been guidelines for deepening the Union's security policy cooperation. We now want to strengthen military cooperation not only for the sake of Russia's geopolitics but also as a response to the crisis of European cooperation. However, the Left believes that the fragmentation and legitimacy crisis within the Union will not be solved by militarisation. The EU should react by investing significantly more in reducing inequalities and unemployment and in the stability of the economic system. Mr President! According to the left, Finland's place is outside the military alliances. Russia's weakened democratic situation and aggressive foreign policy are worrying and unacceptable. However, Finland's military non-alignment has created a relatively stable situation that should not be destabilised. The Government's NATO report last spring also stated that NATO membership would be a significant change of direction in relation to Finland's policy and would have destabilising consequences for the country's security policy environment. As a NATO country, Finland would be tied to a major power policy and President Trump's unpredictable foreign policy. Mr President! The security threats of our time are wider and more likely than conventional military threats. These include climate change, large migrations, limited energy and water resources, terrorism, infectious diseases, security attacks and, as a result, an increase in the vulnerability of societies and individuals. These security threats cannot be combated sustainably by traditional military means. In today's global world, too, no conflict is only local, but it will always have consequences for the rest of the world. There are many worrying aspects of President Trump's policy. Perhaps the most worrying of them is the unwillingness to commit to the Paris climate agreement and the unwillingness to support the UN. However, we in Europe and Finland must rise above anti-Scientific demagogy and take the fight against climate change as one of the main policy priorities. Finland's foreign policy must be a strong policy for strengthening UN systems and other multilateral decision-making mechanisms. A functioning and multilateral international system is important if small countries too are to make their voices heard and if mankind is to be able to solve the enormous and complex problems facing us. Without international law and international systems, there is a law of the strongest in the world, and there are not many winners in that game. Fortunately, humanity has a plan to combat the threats to broad security: the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2030, which is a road map towards an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable future and solutions to the world's major problems, poverty, inequality and environmental crisis. As a responsible actor, Finland must implement a sustainable development agenda consistently in all policies, both at home and in external relations. All policies must aim to support sustainable development, but development funding is also needed. Unfortunately, that is precisely what the government has cut off and, indeed, historically much. It is an unsustainable and short-sighted policy in today's world, because development funding is an essential tool for addressing the root causes of poverty, wars and refugees. Mr President! Threats are highlighted in politics and, in particular, in foreign policy. Instead of threats, we need more visions. We need prospects for a better world and a better Finland, otherwise it may happen as President Koivisto said: "It has often happened in reverse that the threat images begin to materialise precisely because they are prepared for." This is particularly true when it comes to armaments: armaments for war fuel the possibility of war. Finland's external relations and EU policy must realistically identify the threat images, but above all we must keep our own vision in mind and act for it. The vision of the Left for Finland is "An internationally responsible Finland that pursues an independent foreign and security policy and builds a people's Europe."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u18	Mr President, värderade talman! Det finns inte plats för känslobaserad populism då man funderar på Europeiska unionens framtid. Så inledde statsminister Sipilä en Guest pen-artikel i Helsingin Sanomat i början av mars i år. Det är skäl att lyfta fram statsministerns startka marketing: Det finns inte plats för populism. Svenska riksdagsgruppen anser att det är bra att det raus sägs tydligt. Att statsministern i momma artikel säger att Finland stöder en realisticsk medelväg är sedan en let sak som inte är problemmfri, och det ska jag snart återkomma till. Efter en stark populistisk våg som kumulnerade i brexit och luet av Trump, är en optimistk tolkning av de Senaste månadernas val i Europa att populismen är på tillbakagång. Vi såg det redan tidigare i presidentvalet i Österrike, men framför allt i Parliamentsvalet i Holland, i vårt eget kommunalval och nu Senast i presidentvalet i Frankrike. Även om Marine Le Pen tog sig till andra omgången rain fransmännen ett tydligt nej till den högerpopulism och det främlingsfientliga manniskoförakt som ligger bakom Front Nationals värderingar. är det kanske så att Europa nu har scattered till effect Brexit och Trump? Och minsann är det i så fall ög tid att de som säger sig lösa svåra frågor med enkla svar, med alternativa sanningar och direkta lögner lider nederlag i fria val.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u19	Mr President! "Proposals to increase the integration of Finland have beenpassive and counter-productive, although It is easier to agree that individual changes are treated as technical arrangements that are not of major importance. This will avoid opening up a more in-depth debate on national sovereignty and the development of the Union towards a more federal entity." This assessment by Jaakko Kiander in the new book "At the edge or at the heart of the EU articles"? That's right. We need an in-depth debate on the development of the Union and on the Commission's new proposals, based on the lines of the five presidents of the EU institutions towards more federal structures. In turn, these proposals had been set up for decades, presented well before Brexit, and have already been supported by many Member States. For example, the new President of France, Emmanuel Macron, has supported a common budget for the euro area, a solidarity fund and solidarity with the banking world. The European Commission White Paper on the future of the Union, drawn up on the basis of five Presidency proposals, outlines five scenarios. It is no surprise that the Commission considers that the more it integrates, the more positive the results will be. Of course, the most profound in-tegration model does not go through in the Member States. That is why the Commission is pushing for a combination of scenarios, in particular scenario number three, where so-called willing countries are moving faster towards integration. A coalition of several euro-area countries led by Germany and France will inevitably be the driving force behind the federal process. This is what we are talking about in terms of varying paces and increasing qualified majority voting. In April and May, discussion papers on the social dimension of the EU and the management of globalisation were published, just today on the future of economic and monetary union and in June on the future of EU defence and the future of EU funding. The first conclusions should already be drawn in December so that final decisions can be taken next year well in advance of the European elections in two years' time. Which line will Finland choose? The process of deeper integration of the Union, developed around the whole White Paper and the completion of the euro area, is based on the idea that the EU should solve the problems they face on behalf of the Member States. This thinking is fundamentally wrong. If more and more tasks and decision-making powers are delegated to the EU and the euro area or to the heart of the willing countries, we must also increase funding and solidarity for debt. The Christian Democrats believe that the Member States must be responsible for their own development, otherwise we will be forced into growing transfers within the Union. The Christian Democrats believe that a better scenario, the sixth scenario, would be to measure expectations realistically and to retain the responsibility of the Member States for their own development. The Member States must maintain the pressure to carry out the necessary reforms and should not rely on external support to neglect structural changes. Similarly, because of Brexit, the EU budget needs to be reduced accordingly and a reduction of 1% of GDP should be sought. If the size of the EU budget rose from 1 to 2% of GDP, Finland's net contribution would increase by at least half a billion euros. There is little news in Finland that the left side of the European Parliament has longed for an EU budget of up to 5% to 10% of GDP and solidarity in terms of unemployment protection in the name of the social dimension. The monetary recovery of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) through the purchase of more than EUR 1500 billion of public debt has already led to over 15% of public debt in the Member States. This has been done on a circular basis with almost zero interest rates on the joint borrowing of euro countries, which was previously called Eurobonds, which is contrary to the Treaties. This must be overcome by the recovery in economic growth. Mr President! Mrs Merkel's statement that Europe must do more on its own in its defence was right. Our foreign and security policy environment is in the middle of changes. Serious conflicts are taking place in the world and in our neighbourhood, and new threats are being drawn on the horizon. The EU's immediate neighbour, Turkey, is at war with EU values and membership criteria. Unmanaged migration from crisis areas and extremist movements and the threat of terrorism within EU countries are increasing. In such a situation, the defence added value of international cooperation is obvious. However, we are not proposing a common defence union like the European Parliament in its spring declaration. On the other hand, cooperation within the framework of the current Treaties should be stepped up in areas such as planning and defence equipment procurement. Finland must continue to strive for peace and reconciliation as different countries reform their armed forces and the threat of confrontation is exacerbated. Mr President! The Commission justifies the need for any policy to be deepened by conflict of promises, expectations and results. For years, federal developmentists have first suggested that the Union would be able to act as a state. Expectations have been created that cannot be met, and then the Union is being called upon to become more and more federal. The Christian Democrats reject plans for federal development. We must act within the framework of the current Treaties and seek the benefits of cooperation for the Member States, both in economic and security terms. The focus must be on liberalising the internal market in the direction of fair competition, a healthy market economy and combining forces with projects that benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u20	After that, Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes, and then we go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u21	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the good, thought-provoking speeches. Just a few comments on this start of the debat: First of all, if the news that just came into our cell phones about this breakaway climate agreement in the United States is true, then it is a big setback. We must then find partners in that this work must not stop, and it will be at the forefront of our government and Finland's actions in the Arctic Council as well as in those EU circles. Representative Urpilainen well highlighted the importance of this peace work, mediation. I would remind you that in the UTP report we made it one of the key development and development projects and a priority — peace work, mediation, interreligious dialogue. That is where we want to move forward, and that is what I always keep on raising in all the bilateral discussions. It's important. First of all, what this central European Union means: I think in this process of Bratislava, which was in the run-up to this Rome Declaration, first of all we as Finland played a very active role in what kind of vision we can achieve, and this Rome Declaration is very much in line with our views on it. This multi-stroke debate took place in particular, and a good example of this multi-stroke is defence cooperation, which Finland has had a long-term objective of deepening. The focus on the essentials, effective implementation, compliance with the rules — and then, if we go at different speeds, it must be open to everyone. Mr Vanhanen pointed out this obligation to provide mutual assistance, and the UaV report for 2008 states very clearly: 'It is clear in the view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that in such an alliance an attack on one Member State would mean that others would come to help by many means, including military action. The committee has also stressed in previous stages that it would be inconsistent if defence were not affected by a spirit of solidarity similar to all other activities of the Union."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u22	Now is the opportunity to press the V button to ask for answers, and they start with Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u23	Mr President! The news from this meeting that the United States is resigning from the Paris climate agreement is indeed an extremely serious loss to the climate work itself, which must continue, and just as the Prime Minister said right away, this will not ruin the Paris climate agreement. But the second side effect of this is that if a state, which has been identified as the strongest state in many ways in the world, breaks off from a long- negotiated agreement with a huge amount of political capital over the years and years, then it is also a licence note for many to withdraw from the most diverse agreements. This is another extremely harmful consequence of this. In fact, as a new setting, this confirms what the government said in both the Prime Minister's speech and the Foreign Minister's speech at this stage of the presentation: this will also bring to the Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u24	So we're going to have a 1-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u25	Mr President! It was a good thing that the Prime Minister immediately took a fresh stand on this news that the media are now showing: the breakaway of the United States from the Paris climate agreement is possible. I would have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this connection: Can Finland do something about this, among other things, through this Presidency of the Arctic Council? Can we keep the United States in the loop and have a conversation? We have been skilful and pragmatic in the direction of Russia, perhaps this will also work with the United States in this changed situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u26	Mr President! In his memoirs, President Koivisto said: 'I believe that the reasons for security policy were the aspect which most strongly spoke in the direction that we had to join the European Community.' That's security. Over the past few weeks, European Minister Sampo Terho has flashed the idea of a referendum on Finland's membership of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u31	Mr President! Uncertainty is palpable, and that news from the United States has just come out of it. It is precisely so, as has been said here before, that the break-up of the United States from the Paris climate agreement will increase mistrust in the international community. It is now important for the European Union to play an active and stronger role in the defence of multilateral cooperation, and I also think it is important that the European Union plays an active role in ensuring that the remaining countries are also able to implement the Paris climate agreement. Mr President! With regard to the future of the European Union, the Prime Minister has rightly listed the various areas of the debate on the future within the European Union, the Commission is working on various proposals, but I have some doubts as to what Finland wants for the future of the European Union. We are not going to assume that we expect a proposal from Germany and France, which we will then respond to — should we not be proactive and bring our own views on it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u32	Mr President! The values of the EU — respect for human rights, the rule of law, equality and democracy — are those that must be firmly adhered to. They have also been challenged within the EU. The EU's Member States, Poland and Hungary, have for a very long time gone in a worrying direction with regard to human rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and this development has long been ignored by the EU, but it seems that this will finally be addressed. These values are extremely important to Finland. Human rights and the development of the rule of law are the cornerstones of our foreign policy, which is why Finland must be active in ensuring that these principles are adhered to in the EU as well. Could Finland advocate that a violation of these values in the EU should have some consequences, such as a reduction in EU aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u33	Mr President! Knowledge of the US's decision to break away from the Paris climate agreement is definitely the worst news of the day. Even if the USA withdraws from the Paris climate agreement, it does not now give us any permission to loosen up the climate negotiations, but right now Finland and Europe must be a global leader in the fight against climate change. Mr President! The Nordic countries are in many ways a key reference group for Finland and an arena for cooperation. We in the Nordic countries have understood that an equal society and active and proactive international cooperation contribute to peace. Instead of armaments, the Nordic countries have invested in people, which has made the Nordic countries a kind of security community. The Left believes that this community should be strengthened by increasing economic, security and foreign policy cooperation in the Nordic countries. But I would like to ask the government ministers: what concrete steps could Finland take to strengthen and promote Nordic cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u34	Mr President! Foreign policy is also diplomacy, and diplomacy requires resources, visibility and presence. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has regularly drawn attention to the development of the Finnish delegation network, and this is what it did last week when it unanimously adopted the opinion on the Board's 2016 activity report. In this opinion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that the network of delegations is relatively comprehensive but very thin in terms of occupation, since about half of our delegations operate with no more than two diplomats. According to the Government's policy, the delegations will not be closed during this parliamentary term. This is a good thing, but this is not enough, because at the current minimum level it is very difficult for these delegations to adapt to unexpected situations, let alone open new embassies. What are the ideas of the unanimous report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on this point, Mr Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u35	Mr President! In this debate, I quote from Mr Kiander at the beginning. So it seems that it is much easier for us here to talk about security than about EU integration and deepening it, and especially about what is the Finnish line, in which direction Finland wants to go. I would have liked to ask both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister: For example, what views do you have on the possible increase in the EU's common budget, is Finland in favour of increasing it? How do we react to the forthcoming negotiations on the financial framework, what are our priorities there? What about these different solidarity mechanisms for transfers of income? Differentiation and increasing qualified majority voting inevitably mean that this coalition of so-called more willing countries will emerge, which will then take these matters forward. Will Finland be involved or not? We have really big, big questions. There is a lot of discussion and documents, but the Finnish guidelines are currently quite unclear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u36	Mr President! The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, recently took the floor in the way that Europe should stand more firmly on its own feet and pointed out that the aid of the United States and Britain cannot necessarily be trusted in the old way. Do you agree with this assessment or do you see the situation in another way, and in this light, how do the bilateral forms of cooperation between Finland and the United States of America and Finland and Great Britain look, which have, however, been rather good? Is it possible and intended to further deepen them? And one more question, Mr President: There have been ideas here that perhaps there could be a summit in connection with the Presidency of the Finnish Arctic Council, where the US leader Trump and the Russian leader Putin will be present, and the EU must be there as well. Is this fish still in pursuit, or can it be forgotten as an unrealistic project? What does this look like?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u37	Mr President! Of course, military security is very important, and I can well understand the justification for raising the share of military spending to 2%. But in the face of the security challenge that we are now discussing, that is not enough. There has to be a level of perhaps 3% — a level of 3%, involving development aid, humanitarian aid, foreign affairs resources, crisis management expenditure and so on, where expenditure comes together to a level of 3% in the concept of a broad concept of security. This level should be achieved, at 2% of military expenditure, without starting to save on the other sector, the vast security. We need both measures to deal with these major security issues. And the second question briefly, President: Before we say anything about the United States, we must see whether that decision is to be taken by the President alone or whether the US administration, Congress and Senate have their own words to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u38	Mr President! This time we must give Prime Minister Sipilä credit for this Government's line of action. However, it was reasonably balanced, including its part concerning the European Union. A positive attitude towards the development of cooperation is important and can be quoted. I say this when I know that inside the government these things may not be quite easy. However, the biggest news of the day is the announcement that the United States is leaving the Paris climate agreement. It is a big economic issue, it is a big political issue, and it leads to this conclusion that Europe must stand on its own feet and be able to take care of its own affairs. From this point of view, I regret that speeches are being made about Finland's EU separation from the government's ranks. It does not create a credible image for Finland, and I hope that in this Chamber these speeches can now be signed out so that we will not receive any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u39	Mr President! Today it was on the news that the EU Commission is flashing the idea of common euro area bonds and co-financing investment. The idea is presented as a solution for completing the single currency area. The Commission calls the promissory note a 'European risk-free promissory note'. However, in the past there was talk of eurobonds. Of course, you can say that there is hardly a risk-free debt and it would be irresponsible to say that the Commission's idea would not increase solidarity. It is perfectly right and in line with the Finnish people's line that the Government Programme rejects increased debt solidarity. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to confirm this line in this parliamentary debate — that Finland will keep this line in spite of such proposals from the Commission.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u40	Mr President! If this knowledge of the withdrawal of the United States is indeed true, it is a major defeat for the fight against climate change. It is now important that the European Union and other continents and major countries, such as China, show that the climate objectives are being adhered to and raised. I would also like to point out that Finland's and the European Union's own emissions reduction targets for 2030 are not in line with the Paris objective of keeping global warming well below 2°C, even reaching 1.5°C. New data indicate that this 1.5-degree warming would be true in the next ten years, and Arctic ice, for example, melts rapidly and has a significant impact on Finland’s climate and weather conditions. In fact, Finland's own climate and energy strategy, which, contrary to the Greens' position, has now been adopted by the majority in Parliament, will not reduce Finland's net emissions by 2030 at all, because increased fellings will reduce carbon sinks by the same amount as emissions will decrease, compared to the fact that fellings would not increase. What is it, Prime Minister, that Finland is now prepared to tighten up the emission reduction measures in this situation, so that we can show even a little leadership?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u41	Mr President! Brexit and the change in the EU's operating environment would have earned their own debate, and now there are many debates that go wrong. I will just focus on the fact that we should reflect on the reasons behind Brexit and the fact that the EU is being more critical. Extensive unemployment, lack of prospects for the future: The losers of globalisation do not feel that anyone in politics defends them. They feel that European Union policy is taking the wrong direction in the lives of ordinary Finns, ordinary British, ordinary French people. This is a major challenge both for all national governments and for the European Union to show its place and to take up this greatest fear that people have. It is also a big issue of internal security, not allowing people to be sidelined. For this, the EU must make a policy, and this should also be at the forefront of Finland's EU policy, such as domestic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u42	Värderade Talman! Det är djupt tragiskt om nyhten om att USA nu drar sig från Parisavtalet håller streck. Det berör hela mänskligheten och det är också så att det nu är viktigt att Finland tillsammans med de övriga nordiska länderna, tillsammans med EU, är aktiv på den iär arenan och försöker se till att man kommer fråt. Det gäller oss alla, inte bara oss rai i Finland inte i Norden, det gäller hela jordklotet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u43	Mr. Speaker! Puberty and instability are a lot of words used here. How about this? One's own things in order, stability in the immediate environment, as far as it can be influenced, good neighbors, it can be affected. The ability and unity of the EU can be influenced — the EU is important when it is operational, including from the point of view of the security community. And then the important point is that we are making a strong effort to strengthen international rules and international law. My real question relates to this news that may have come from the United States: whether it is true or not, and what it really means. Climate change is, in any case, the most serious threat for all countries, for all people on this planet, in any case, without Trump's possible new announcement. On the basis of the latest information, will the government properly investigate this mitigation of climate change and perhaps consider a new initiative within the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u44	Mr President! Global challenges and the need to find intelligent solutions to complex issues have already come up in quite a number of speeches. The need for EU reform is obvious, either because of Brexit or because of Brexit. Monday, at the COSAC Conference, Vice-President of the Commission Mr Timmermans appreciated the fact that there has been a fundamental debate in the parliaments on the future of the EU and, in particular, that the White Paper has been the source of these debates. The reform of the EU-27 countries is certainly not a Commission exercise, but is based on the shared vision of all of us in the EU's policies and on the role of the EU in the international community. In Finland, the role of Parliament is of course crucial. Such discussions, and especially when it comes to the proactive influence of Parliament, are very important, especially as the Prime Minister in his own speech pointed out that Finland will be an active actor, an active influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u45	At this stage, I will give the floor to the representatives of Ruoho and Tuppurainen, and then we will take the Ministers' replies and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u46	Mr President! Trump should understand, as China does, that sticking to the Paris climate agreement is also an economic advantage. If it were brought to his attention, maybe his mind would change. Mr Arhinmäki described various options as one of the main reasons for Brexit, but I would say that you did not mention these immigration issues. However, it has become quite clear on many occasions that they were the real reasons that contributed to the Brexit’s success. It was in the everyday life of the ordinary British who saw crime, segregation and unemployment as a result of poor integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u47	Mr President! Under President Koivisto's leadership, Finland made a great choice in foreign and security policy 25 years ago when we applied for EU membership. It was time to act. Small nations can't survive alone. In recent years, our security environment has developed in a worrying direction. Britain's departure from the EU and Russia's desire for a policy of power and interest have weakened European stability. In addition to transatlantic cooperation, strong EU security cooperation is needed as a basis for European security. The German Chancellor, Mr Merkel, said this out loud: Europe must take the future more firmly into its own hands. Finland has made the right choices by being at all the heart of EU cooperation. We must continue along this path. Finland must be active in ensuring that the EU's cooperation in monetary, economic, security and climate matters becomes close and that it covers a wide range of defence policies and allows for a common defence. We must stick to what we achieved a quarter of a century ago. There must be initiative, cooperation led by Germany and France,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u48	Then I will give the floor to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for European Affairs. — Prime Minister Sipilä, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u49	Mr President! Firstly, on the question of referendum by Mr Stubb and Mr Heinäluoma. This government will not bring a motion for a referendum to vote on the resignation of the European Union. Finland's place is in the European Union, and for my part I can say that I will never play any role in a government that would bring such a proposal. [Department: Good! ] Mr Urplainen, we have made a vision for the European Union together. We've had a pre-emptive effect on that vision. Now we are doing everything we can to achieve that vision. We have a priori influence, we seek partners, we have a debate, we also have a debate with a large committee and here internally, we also have a civil dialogue in Finland on these issues. Congressman Sarkkinen, this social dimension. It is now quite a scale of opinion within the European Union. For a lot of people, it means different things. The angle on which Finland has approached this is that we are making every contribution to equality, for example the position of women in the labour market and so on, but we do not therefore want to build a new transfer element into the European Union. Several representatives, Mr Henriksson, asked about Nordic cooperation. There was a debate on the implementation of Agenda 2030 at a very concrete level. There, too, we talked about the fight against climate change. Congressman Niinistö brought this up and several of you. It is one forum where we can work together, and there we challenged each other to tighten up the numerical objectives in such a way that we can move forward faster together. Here, too, there are differences between the Nordic countries, but the coherence we all have is that we all want to fight climate change through concrete action and together. Mrs Essayah, I actually answered all your questions in my first speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u50	Secretary of State Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u51	Mr President! I'll start with this U.S.A. and the new administration's policies. It's not about moping, it's about being connected, working together. Only in that way, if possible — and only in that way — will the United States, hopefully, be able to return to such climate action, among other things. If we start to argue here that something else is being done in the long term, we will not find good solutions in the end, but together we will work, persistently, again, with good arguments, with better arguments: this is in your interest, it has cleantech business opportunities, it has opportunities for a new economy, it has sustainable things, good nature, a clean future for children. This is the way it's got to go, and we don't want to start moping and puking. That's what I've learned in this couple of years as a foreign minister, that that kind of whistling won't take you anywhere. Then to a good point. Congressman Stefan Wallin, a smart man, asked about the embassy network. Fortunately, under the current regime, no delegation has been dissolved, on the contrary, now Myanmar and Bogotá are being raised to the embassy level and there are consular services in São Paulo. I am happy to contribute to this which the wise Committee on Foreign Affairs has already taken forward over several periods. The money invested in it will come back many times as much. It may not come through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it comes as trade, contacts, cooperation. That makes sense. Then there is this Britain. I recommend a similar approach to the United States. We can't get out of this Brexit because now we're getting revenge, now there's bad will or something else. Negotiate, resolve and seek a solution because the worst possible solution is that the British leave the Brexit without a negotiated solution. That's the option, so let's get that solution out of the way. And, of course, the situation is difficult — it is absolutely gross. But I will be with Mr Arhinmäki while I have a moment as chairman, for once in my life. Yes, you were right that this Brexit had real people's concerns behind it, and this has to be taken seriously. We have to keep responding to these and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u52	Secretary Terho, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u53	Mr President! I will start with Brexit and then return to this matter of referendum. What is really important is what has been emphasised here quite clearly from one mouth, that Finland and the EU27 are not seeking any kind of revenge against Great Britain, but that we must respect this result of the referendum, whether it is acceptable for each or not. After all, the negotiations on Brexit are ready on the EU side to start in practice right after the British elections, and I hope that this will also be the case. As the Foreign Minister has pointed out here, the outcome of the negotiations is an important objective, because the option really is that there will be no separation agreement between the EU and Great Britain, which is even more confusing. The reasons for Brexit are a very important subject, and here I would like to emphasise once again a constructive, sensible approach, which means self-criticalness on the part of both the EU and perhaps the United Kingdom. With regard to this matter of referendum, what I think should be self-evident: this government is following its programme. It is good, and it rejects the federal government but does not promise any referendum on Finland's membership of the EU. Instead, future governments will not, of course, be bound by the programme of this government, and I have spoken about the forthcoming governments and the parliamentary term when I speak of the referendum. [SusannaRoom call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u54	All right, we're back in business. The first response to this debate is Mr Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u55	Mr President! This was shocking to hear what has just been heard. If Finland were not a member of the European Union, we would be in the outer circle and, in fact, in Russia's sphere of interest, as a hooligan, so that such talk should not be heard about Finland, which has benefited so much from security and from this European Union. All right, but then these other things. A major change has taken place in the United States and has affected this whole foreign policy climate and in a negative way. We have heard about the climate agreement, but we have also heard about the President. Trump was not committed to defending Europe when he came here to meet European colleagues and leaders. After all, Finland is in a difficult, schizophrenic setting here. On the one hand, the United States is going downhill and there are wrong positions, but on the other hand, Finland has a good interest in having good relations with the United States in any case. We can't think. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u56	Yes, we will stick to this one-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u57	Mr. Speaker! When the baby boomers came into the world, there were 2 billion of us. Now we do not have to live in the age of Methusem to see the world of 9 billion people. We have never been in a world like this before where climate change, unsustainable development and weapons of mass destruction can completely stop the opportunities of human life. And in a world like this, no problems will be solved by closing borders, not by questioning the rule of law, democracy, human rights or any form of armament, but we need the broadest possible cooperation and leadership. And now it is Europe that is looking at. Will Europe be able to play this role? Is Finland, as a member of the EU, also an actor who could be active and proactive in this process, both in order to strengthen common security and also in order to better manage globalisation? It is a good thing, but it has also produced more inequalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u58	Mr President! This instability in the neighbouring regions and terrorism has certainly made the EU's security policy more important, and it has also been highlighted here in these speeches. This development of EU defence cooperation is, of course, one of the key factors in which Finland has been very proactive. The establishment of this hybrid competence centre in Finland is our strong will. But I would ask you, Mr Defence Minister: now, of course, we have legislation here, and the provision and reception of international aid is one part of it, but when we talk about this EU defence cooperation on a broader scale, what are the military capabilities that Finland is able to offer? On the other hand, what are the areas in which you would see that militaryly we could gain the most? What partnerships in this EU defence cooperation would we have the best national benefits?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u59	President! There is no power in the world to prevent the Minister from seeing beyond tomorrow's vision. It is not a lax phrase to say 'less Europe, but a better Europe'. Europe needs a community that seeks out the smallest common denominators, particularly in terms of values, culture and common European heritage. This is best achieved by recognising the need for differentiated EU development. The EU, now in crisis, is asking the question of EU adulthood, EU maturity: is it choosing a line of revenge in relation to England or a line of constructive dialogue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u60	Mr President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for raising the issue of the economy in your speech. My next question is the tax reform of Trump, whose main problem, in my view, is precisely that it does not exist. There is actually only this kind of Republican own backing paper. Unpredictability and the associated instability are a major challenge which, through the economy, also affects foreign and security policy. So I ask the Prime Minister: what is Finland going to do together with the EU front so that the United States does not break away from international tax programmes and turn its back on free world trade? On the other hand, with regard to the situation in the euro area: will Finland pay attention to the surpluses in Germany with the same energy that we are talking about deficits in different countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u61	Mr President! I, too, criticize the Finns, but from a completely different point of view from most here. I am particularly critical of the lack of EU criticism when, for two years, I have not seen such a thing in this Chamber. I was also concerned that, at least as far as the militarisation of the European Union is concerned, the Greens and the True Finns are approaching each other at a good pace. In view of the time we are living in Europe — mass unemployment, the economic crisis, which is still under the surface, the issue of refugees — is the construction of a military industrial complex the glue that keeps the European Union and Europe together? This is something I am very surprised about, and this kind of federal development is acceptable to the Greens as well as to the Finns of Peru. As far as the Treaty of Lisbon is concerned, many of them seem to be pulling the corners straight: its spirit is precisely that it takes account of national leeway and that the donor country decides in all situations,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u62	Mr President! However, it is very difficult for me to agree with the estimates that claim that Finland's international status has been strengthened in some way during this reign. Perhaps today, when we heard that our European Minister is actually dreaming that Europe will break up and that Finland will come out of the EU, it did seem very difficult to think about how a government can make a successful EU policy or foreign policy in general. Perhaps it will then understand that our pattern in the EU is not very strong either, quite the opposite of what has traditionally been the case. I see this as a pretty big problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u63	Mr President! I was very pleased to hear the Prime Minister say in his own speech: 'EU membership is a key security policy solution for Finland' — a key one. Against that background, the mirroring of Mr Terho's speech does not work very well, there is the feeling that the government has two European policy lines. Hopefully the line will clear and the lines will be shot straight. The EU is intensifying its defence cooperation, and the EU Commission is on the way to developing defence cooperation. Prime Minister, you mentioned permanent structured cooperation and a number of examples in this respect. However, there was a lack of defence funds and possible joint procurement. Is there any leverage available from the EU to finance the billions of purchases of our own defence? Is the government active in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u64	Mr President! The security policy situation has changed rapidly and unexpectedly. There are new threats, cyberterrorism, but the threat of traditional warfare has not left the world either. We must live in time and the legislation must be up-to-date. We must thank the government for finally taking decisive steps to update the legislation. The reception of international assistance and the provision of assistance have now been updated, as has the speed of troops under the leadership of Minister of Defence Niinistö. It is also important to have sufficient resources, and this important role is, of course, the budget, but also the cooperation that is needed, particularly in the fight against terrorism. I would like to ask about the timetable for this intelligence legislation: how is it supposed to be achieved in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u65	Mr President! This Brexit debate has been raised in a number of speeches and I believe that it is through the negotiations that the balance between Britain and the EU can be established. It is, of course, important in that separation agreement to safeguard the safety of citizens, but a few questions: Finland will lose this British departure in promoting free trade and less regulation for an important ally, and we must seek new partners in this coalition. Where do you find them? Who might they be? And do we usually have new partners in the EU on this issue? Then there is one thing: membership of the Union must always be more profitable than the solution to move outside. Is this principle now being called into question a little while Britain is going out?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u66	Mr President! This debate has raised the issue of the EU moving at different paces in this future development, i.e. that some Member States should deepen cooperation and others should then leave themselves in the outer circle. It is often heard that Finland wants to be involved in all the EU's cores, which is certainly a little worn-out, but nevertheless, this is how it has been so far. Then, on the one hand, we in the Government Programme have the entry that 'the Community method is a means of ensuring stability and equality in the functioning of the Union and the implementation of democracy in EU policy'. And another quote: 'The Union must be reformed and its operation improved, but the government does not consider it timely to amend the Treaties now'. Similarly, we do not want to deepen this economic solidarity. If changes are made to these, then the EU referendum will be quite timely. And the Centre has also stated in its European election programme in 2014 that the Centre does not approve of federal development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u67	Mr President! Mr Terho's speech was quite unique. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u68	Mr President! I can only agree with the answer to Mr Urplainen's first section. I was talking about the freedom of the minister myself at the beginning. Perhaps as a Member of Parliament, you can also speak a little more freely from there, but I think that this type of speech is, quite frankly, a sort of security risk. The fact that Finland's resignation from the European Union in such an international situation, when Finland is not a member of NATO, is simply irresponsible of the Minister sitting down, and I really hope that this type of speech will no longer be heard from that box. And I thank the Prime Minister for his unequivocal resignation from the speech of his European Minister. Just as a small basic observation: I was reading the Financial Times yesterday, and Britain will have to conclude 750 new international agreements as a result of Brexit. Let us take a moment to think about the state in which our administration would be incapacitated if we were even to consider the difference between the European Union and the European Union. I hope these speeches stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u69	Mr President! I would also like to join Mr Urpilainen and Mr Stubb in their good speeches. At a time when the role of the United States in the world is changing and does not take responsibility for the security of European countries and their overall attitude towards free trade, international cooperation is, to put it mildly, unstable, the role of the European Union as a basis for our values, both in security, in the economy and in Finland's international reference frameworks is growing and we must build a European Union that responds to the concerns of people about inequality or the unequal distribution of the fruits of globalisation. But we cannot give up; we cannot accept the situation that within the Finnish Government Finland's commitment to the development of the European Union is undermined by a flirtation with the EU and a referendum. This affects the development of the European Union, the international debate on the direction in which the EU can be taken at all, and this weakens Finland's position. I hope that the Prime Minister will now give Minister Terho a strict address. It can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u70	Mr President! I think that there is still room for free discussion here in the Finnish Parliament as to what is going on with future government programmes and where we are going. But the security situation has deteriorated, and at least I have not been able to get a clear answer as to where the Finnish Parliament is aiming where we are going in Europe. And yes, I agree with Mr Essayah's statement that there will be a federal state in a few years or decades' time. If you read the Commission's guidelines, you talk about deeper cooperation, then it is about defence, economic union, monetary union and so on. Yes, it would be good for us to have a debate and not just talk about how we feel about Trump. The people of the United States have elected Trump as president, and Britain has made its own
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u71	Mr President! We know that in all EU countries there are political forces that want to break away from the EU, that is no secret. The most important thing is that the Prime Minister, who is in charge of EU policy, set it very clearly, and each of us, as representatives of our own parties, makes it clear to us what we want to do, and that is that our place is in the EU, which is the instrument through which we can respond to these great challenges of our time. This is extremely clear, there must be no doubt about it. To this federal debate, all I have to say is that I was allowed to be two Treaty amendments to negotiate, the Constitutional Treaty and the Treaty of Lisbon. Every single tiny detail that was about to transfer power from the Member States to the European level was subject to extreme control. I find it unrealistic that, in this time of 27 Member States, there should be a special change. These intimidations of having a big federal movement going on, I think they're oversized.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u72	Mr President! We still have to continue this basic debate on what kind of messages Finnish and Finnish ministers send to the world. We are known as a nation for keeping what we say and for having confidence in what we do. If uncertainty is created about it for other EU countries or outside the EU, whether Finland is seriously involved in the Union or not, then it really has harmful consequences. If a person is responsible for Finland's EU policy and related negotiations
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u75	I will give the floor to Mr Sarkkinen and Mrs Wallin, and then I will take the Ministers' replies, and then the debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u76	Mr President! The EU Commission has announced that it will launch a consultation with the social partners with a view to banning zero-hour contracts. This project is part of the Commission's construction of the social dimension of Europe. The proposals to strengthen the social dimension also include the setting of minimum levels of family leave. My question is: is the government prepared to support and promote these social dimensional initiatives that strengthen people's social and labour rights? Recently, the EU also took the initiative of a common corporate tax base to support tax base leakage and tax competition. However, Finland took a negative view of this, even if it is precisely such initiatives to prevent tax competition and tax leakage that would be appropriate and necessary to strengthen the legitimacy of the EU in the eyes of its citizens and to ensure the financial bases of the welfare states in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u77	Mr President! After the excellent speeches by Mr Urplainen and Mr Stubb, there is very little to add, but, Prime Minister, this is a very serious matter. We have a minister responsible for European affairs who announces a Brexit-type referendum and openly questions Finland's membership of the EU. He has also argued that he himself was not allowed to comment on EU membership because he was too young in 94 when the referendum took place. This, of course, is also a very dubious, poor argument. Prime Minister, it is extremely serious if the image is created that the government speaks with more mouths or has more EU lines, as regards the fundamental question of Finland's membership. The fact that the European Minister openly opposes Finland's membership of the EU is a bit like having a Minister of Education who declares that his leadership is illiterate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u78	And now we give the floor to Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes. Then the Minister for European Affairs and the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u79	Mr President! I think that in my reply it has become clear what the line of this government is in relation to this referendum. I will answer the individual questions raised here. Firstly, Mr Kaikkonen and Mr Salolainen referred to this message from the USA to the NATO countries. I believe that this message has been very clear for a long time, which is to say more economic responsibility. I believe that this will also open up new opportunities in this defence cooperation, when the large European countries with a deficit of this 2% can now invest part of this increase through cooperation between the European Union. This is what I have discussed with Merkel in Germany, for example, and he mentioned cyber cooperation as an opportunity that would not overlap with NATO's activities, and it is also a cooperation project that Finland's defence forces have promoted as the number one. This is a good example of that. Mr Kaikkonen then asked about this Arctic summit. If the situation is appropriate, Finland is ready to organise it. Then, here, Mr Elo asked about this increase in solidarity. It is not a question of increasing solidarity; we need to get our structures in order. That is our approach to this. The representative of Estonia remained unanswered: We are having a good debate on the future. We have more than one foresight paper in the large committee, and so we will have a debate on these Commission discussion papers and hence on the future of the EU. Representative Aalto referred to the free trade debate. It is quite clear that Finland supports all the joint activities aimed at increasing free trade. I believe that, in this situation, where borders are also being imposed in trade, it opens up opportunities. This is precisely what we discussed in Malta at the European Council that Europe must seize the opportunity to increase trade. This was also discussed during the visit of the Chinese President to Finland. You've got to grab it. Representative Karille: Defence funds are part of the deepening of defence cooperation, and Finland has supported it. Congressman Pakkanen asked if Finland would find partners in this gap that the difference between Britain and Finland is causing. Yes, the Nordic countries, the Netherlands, Germany for example. We have discussed the need to play a strong role on these issues, such as the development of the internal market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u80	European Minister Terho, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u81	Mr President! I would also like to respond to these ambiguities, which at least seemed to exist with the opposition but also with the government partners, and I would like to be as clear as possible. As those who were paying attention will have noticed from my first speech, I did not take any position on Finland's membership of the EU itself or, in particular, against it, but on the holding of a referendum sometime in the future, not during this parliamentary term. The line is not new to our party and is generally known both nationally and internationally. The debate is a matter of democracy, and I will not give up this right under any circumstances, but I repeat very clearly: both our party and I personally are committed to this programme of government. I myself have been negotiating this part of the EU, and it would be remarkable if it were not good enough for me. Let me take a few examples: the government is assessing all EU regulation from the point of view of competitiveness, economic growth and employment — that is what makes sense EU policy. Finland is seeking less but better and lighter regulation — yes. There is no need to deepen integration in all policy areas — yes. Emu should not be developed through economic coordination which would lead to greater solidarity — just like that. The government does not believe that the opening of the Treaties is timely — just as it should be with the EU and its current situation. I am fully committed to this government programme, and there can be no doubt about this after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u82	Secretary of Defense Niinistö, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u83	Mr President! When we talk about EU defence cooperation, as Mr Savola did in his speech, or about the EU's defence dimension, we are actually talking more about crisis management than about traditional defence. In the future, Finland will build a credible, hard core of its national defence in Finland, the field and the barracks. EU cooperation can provide added value. In this context, I do not understand what Mr Mustajärvi has said about the militarisation of the EU, because that is not the case. The security environment has changed and we are responding to this change. The defence solution in most EU countries is clearly NATO. Therefore, defence cooperation at EU level is complementary in nature and does not create duplications. We are not creating an EU army, as Mr Savola is certainly well aware, but in the fight against new threats, such as hybrids and cybers, we can achieve much. Take Germany, for example, which intends to invest heavily in cyber warfare in the future. At the moment, Germany has a few hundred soldiers on the side of the cyber-war, but it intends to increase this to 15,000, so it is a billion-dollar investment. In this cooperation, Finland should be involved. A good example of Finland's contribution to EU defence cooperation, but also to cooperation between the EU and NATO, is the newly established hybrid competence centre in Helsinki. Finally: Personally, I think that if this period is sometimes seen as history, then EU cooperation, EU defence cooperation, is more relevant for the development of national defence, Nordic defence cooperation and, in particular, ever-increasing cooperation with Sweden. Especially at the training level, this is very useful for the development of Finnish defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u84	Let us now take one last round of replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u85	Mr President! I do have to come back to this debate on the European referendum because it has to be understood that it alone is against the national interests of Finland, that is the essence of it, and that is just the speech. The other thing is that if someone wants to talk about it, then you have to ask how the Prime Minister is dealing with this issue, because it is against the national interests of Finland at the moment. That is quite clear. Well, that's all I have to say about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u86	Mr President! Similarly, as Mr Salolainen said earlier, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister clearly that if your government's European Minister is in this position, as he has just said here, do you see that it has no effect on our influence, for example, on the European arenas? This is not exactly the way it is going to be that we think that we are here somewhere in the dark to deliver our speeches. We will be monitored fairly closely by neighbouring countries as well as by other countries, EU countries and our partners. I want an answer to this question. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister when I understood that you spoke for the UN and for multilateral cooperation: how do these massive cuts in government development cooperation, including those of UN organisations, coincide with your speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u87	Madam President! In Malta, as the President-in-Office of the European Union mentioned, the European Parliaments discussed the future of Europe, and there too there was a real need for cooperation in economic matters, security, climate change. On the other hand, there were three rather recent problems: the refugee crisis in the South, nationalism in the East, Brexit in the West. This really requires an active policy from Finland. The Prime Minister has spoken about central EU policy. I like that term. I understand that it involves better implementation of decisions, less bureaucracy, including a balance between solidarity and ownership. Could you further clarify what this central road policy, with which Finland could really give a significant contribution to the development of the EU, all of it means?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u88	Mr President! In a large committee, we have required the government to bring its EU agenda at least as a Prime Minister's announcement to the great Chamber of Parliament. Brexit, political changes in the powerful countries of the EU, violations of human rights in authoritarian neighbouring countries and eastern Member States and many other major themes would need clarity and activity on the Finnish side. Instead, the Prime Minister will bring in a statement on foreign and security policy, which will also have the EU sidelined, and the members of the large committee will have a third hour of begging for one-minute speeches here. This is not worth the honourable parliamentary principles of 100-year-old Finland. And then there is the sum of misery: the minister who uses that valuable box for his own election campaign. This isn't Jyväskylä, Minister Terho. You've been talking all over yourself. First you said that you wanted to be a minister of a government that negotiates a break-up with Finland, and then you said that you were not supposed to drive Finland out of the EU. One of these claims is false. Minister Sipilä, why have you entrusted the EU portfolio to such hands?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u89	Madam President! As just the last time I spoke, I was also thinking about this development in the EU. I myself have tried to define it in two ways. The first is that the European Union will always be more than an international organisation, but also far less than a federal state. No matter how much I stand up for some sort of federal development, I will never see the European Union as such. The second is that when you have looked at the crisis in the EU, particularly since 2008, it cannot really come to a conclusion, whether it is a financial crisis, an immigration crisis, an economic crisis or a terrorist crisis, and that is that the EU is developing through three: first there is a crisis, then there is chaos, and then there is an imperfect outcome, and that is what we are living with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u90	Mr President! I find it very interesting that many people in this Chamber are surprised that the Finns are the only EU-critical party in the Finnish Parliament. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u91	Mr President! Minister Terho, at the beginning of your speech you have just said that you want to speak plain and clear. Then you will be able to answer two questions clearly in plain language. The first question is: are you in favour of Finnish membership of the EU or are you not, yes or no? How would you vote in the referendum that is in your eyes, yes or no? Minister Terho, yes or no? English, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u92	Mr President! I will intervene in this statement by the Prime Minister that Finland makes all European policy decisions pragmatically, i.e. pragmatically separately. It is true that we use reason and think carefully, but is it really the case that there is no greater idea behind it, the values that we do not have behind us the idea of Europe? It is a very different starting point than when the second world war started to build the European Union or when Finland decided to become a member of the European Union. It is also a very different starting point from when Angela Merkel said that the fate of Europe is in our own hands. There was an idea, there's values behind it. This impotence of pragmatism is brutally revealed against this State-wise speech by Merkel. It is clear that Europe is something greater than individual budgetary issues or individual international agreements. It is a fundamental solution for Finland. Now, President, it is time to get serious. The fate of Europe lies in our own hands. Even from Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u93	Madam President! I have also taken a breath of breath from these statements by the Minister for European Affairs. It has been very helpful to note that in every other party in this Chamber, these statements have been considered totally inappropriate for the European Minister and the ministerial institution. It is very good that Minister Terho says that he is committed to the Government Programme, but we still have to talk about the future. In general, people are promised what they want in elections, but Finns do not want an EU divorce. I therefore believe that talking about a referendum is completely pointless. Think about what has happened since the Brexit vote, how the British have been treated at international meetings — ‘in the cold’ is a rather mild expression of it. And especially when the Prime Minister says that he wants to play an active, constructive role with regard to the future of the EU, these speeches will certainly damage the Prime Minister's chances of doing this very dramatically.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u94	Madam President! The announcement by the United States of withdrawal from the climate agreement is probably quite a shock, but, on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that the great power always — the United States is the world's leading superpower — does its own policies without much consultation. But there is one fact to remember: the United States is the world's leading technology state, which will certainly be able to use its own technology to develop forms of energy that serve the future of mankind, including through climate policy. It is true that there are huge energy resources in Alaska, for example, which they want to exploit, and we cannot condemn them for that. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the advice that Urho Kekkonen gave in his day that we should not be judges in world politics but rather doctors. We know that there are many threats in our neighbourhood policy, but we also need to be active in this regard and try to play the role of an active doctor. If we become a judge in this matter, there are usually very bad marks, as we have learned from our history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u95	Mr President! Now, however, we must remember when we talk about the Paris climate agreement, that it is a global agreement in which the United States has also been involved, that is, they are responsible for the fact that this agreement is moving forward. But at the moment, we really need trust. We need that trust between Europe and the United States, we need trust between the Member States of the European Union and, apparently, we need more and more trust within the Finnish Government as well. If this trust does not exist, it will be difficult for us to make any progress at the moment. I very much hope that the government, when it wants to influence European Union policy, will keep its own lines straight. We have a great deal to monitor in a common Europe, and we also need a policy from within Finland that guarantees equal development in Finland so regionally
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u96	Mr President! I value Finland and society, believe in democracy, and applied to Parliament so that I could act as a representative of Parliament and that I could discuss matters. In that sense, I am a little confused about this past debate because it has been said here that the European Minister should not speak of a referendum, and then, on the other hand, he is required to respond to his own voting behaviour. So now I want the list I'm allowed to talk about and not to talk about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u97	Madam President! Of course, this debate shows what has been known in the large committee that discussions on integration and the direction of the EU have been very difficult, and the government has always, at the last minute, brought them into line and more as technical arrangements of this kind. In that sense, it still feels that the question of what is the Finnish policy, which is the choice of Finland in these different EU scenarios, remains unclear. We are talking about a pragmatic approach, but is it precisely the fact that, when a proposal is brought in, one presentation at a time then reacts to them and they are more of such technical arrangements to be taken into consideration? Or when we talk about the middle road, what's the middle road? In other words, the big questions about how we deal with this different pace, with qualified majority voting, whether we are on the side of Germany and France in these matters or what our approach is, I still think we need clarification on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u98	Mr President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for speaking here in favour of the EU's common foreign and security policy and in favour of deepening defence. Foreign Minister Soini also spoke about Nordic cooperation — of course the Prime Minister also spoke about it, and that is a good thing — and the Foreign Minister also referred to the need to deepen cooperation with Sweden in the field of foreign policy. When, just a couple of weeks ago, the EU Commission stated that the Nord Stream 2 project that is currently under attack in our neighbourhood would be contrary to the EU's Energy Union, and when we know that Russia is also actively using energy policy to influence, I would have asked what Finland's position is. After all, Sweden has clearly had a negative attitude towards Nord Stream and many of our other EU partners. Does Finland still view the project as a commercial, environmental issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u99	Madam President! Minister of Defence Niinistö, you denied in this Chamber the view of one of our fellow Members that the European Union is, as it were, militarising through its own programmes. I agree with the Minister. This is not the kind of development I see myself. I see the security dimension of the European Union very much in the same way as the Minister who has often described the importance of European defence cooperation in the media, the deepening of defence cooperation through various elements. I ask the Minister of Defence: how do you see how Finland would cope with the planning of its own defence if we were not one part of this big European family, its common defence?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u100	We are running out of time for this debate. There are eight responses requested on my list. I will admit them all, and then, finally, if the Minister wishes, please indicate the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u101	Madam President! Of this ability to cooperate, which we have stressed in several speeches on the European Union, it is certainly worth sticking to and Finland is always developing the EU and bringing its own proposals first, but it should be noted that there are very different countries in the EU. Admittedly, this is striking and it seems unfair that some countries seem to have only rights and obligations far less, then we talk about human rights issues, asylum seekers, related responsibilities, economic issues and so on. I am thinking here, for example, of economic issues. Greece or, on human rights issues, Poland or Hungary, asylum seekers and so on. I would like to ask you again, Prime Minister: how Finland has an impact on whether there can be only benefits, for example through the Cohesion Funds, for these countries, so that they can only benefit, but they must not bear the same responsibility as the rest of us?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u102	Mr President! The debate on the EU and its future has followed a familiar Finnish formula: instead of focusing on the content of European policy, we have talked a lot about how the EU system works. We must not fear the EU or its plans for the future, but be actively involved in building this future. The EU is not just an instrument value but an actor in whose direction we can genuinely influence. In addition to the security policy cooperation that has been very much on the agenda, we need to develop new content, such as digitality, the internal market or trade relations. It is work that improves the everyday lives of our citizens, and also work that can give the EU more confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u103	Mr President! Civilian crisis management tackles root causes that drive people away from their own countries. It also supports the reconstruction of society. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: are we in the Union developing such a rapid response to civilian crisis management, which would allow us to intervene quickly and concretely, for example, as soon as the situation in Syria would allow it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u104	Mr President! I have been somewhat disturbed in this debate by these repeated references to the Government Programme — not because we were not doing it and that is why we do not like it, but because, after the Government Programme has been adopted, there have been very many changes which have not been foreseen. There is a Brexit, that is the situation that has arisen since the elections in the United States, and, above all, there is a new situation in Europe as a whole, new challenges that await answers, and they are not really found in the government programme that limits it or at least does not touch it. Right now, we need a vision of progress and initiative that is not yet found in that government programme. Hopefully, however, we will have common views on what is needed. The Prime Minister pointed out that there are different interpretations of this social dimension, but it did not really come to light what our view of it was. I would really like to ask whether we are prepared to support:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u105	Mr President! There are surprisingly many contradictions in this debate, and one relates to this social dimension. From the very left is warned of deepening cooperation, intimidated by federalism, but the same speech speaks positively of labour law, tax decisions at EU level. These two themes do not really fit in the same speech. If we give competence, for example, in labour law or taxation at European level, then we must remember that after that we will not only pick raisins out of buns, but we will have quite a lot of legislation ourselves, such as labour law, which does not necessarily coincide with this EU's competitive thinking. We have quite a lot of restrictions that are not known elsewhere in Europe. In my opinion, in seeking positive headlines on the social dimension, without starting to define what powers the Union is given, there should be some caution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u106	Madam President! It's time to thank the government again once in a while. I think that the government and Minister Sipilä have been very vigilant in this change in the security environment, that the eyes have been clear and that the reports have managed to capture the changes and unpleasant things that are happening in the neighbourhood. It is good that we are discussing them. For that, thank you to the government. However, there seems to be a certain area of concern here, and that is cybersecurity. As Minister Niinistö has just said, Germany, for example, is already raising the number of cyber forces from a few hundred to as many as 15,000. This is quite a change, that is to say, to increase the number of cyber forces. I would ask you most politely: Has Finland started to prepare in this direction too? Do we understand that this cyber side is actually going to be in the future — and there is, in fact, already — one type of weapon and should be invested in it in exactly the same way as other types of weapon?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u107	President! In his group statement, Mr Stubb took such an overview of events in recent history. When we entered the '90s, we talked about the end of history, especially at the mouth of Fukuyama. Looking back at this time as such a hindsight romantic, I think that when the Warsaw Pact ceased to exist, then NATO too should have been abolished when NATO has now come to much of the UN property, looking for a new role. We have a lot of resources, foreign policy resources that we could use even more, the Council of Europe, is the OSCE. It is precisely in the case of the OSCE that I want to think not only about what the OSCE can do, but also about what the OSCE can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u108	Madam President! The Paris Agreement on Climate Change at the end of 2015 was one of the most important agreements recently concluded in the field of safety in the world. Against that background, the possible difference between the USA is a considerable loss of security and a risk to security. In fact, at the same time, the United States will, as it were, announce that the height of the wall must be raised, because the pressure on refugees is increasing as a result of climate change. There is uncertainty, there is a loss of confidence not only with regard to this climate agreement but also with regard to the possible difference between the British and the EU. I ask Minister Soin: are there any other international agreements that may involve uncertainties that may affect the position of Finland indirectly or directly?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u109	My final contribution to the debate, Mr Urplainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u110	Mr President! There has been many references to President Trump's election and also to the Brexit referendum, but perhaps not enough talk about the reasons behind these choices. I myself think that there are certainly many reasons for this, but also the increase in inequality and the experience of non-participation. That is why I think that we must also take this criticism of globalisation and people's concerns seriously, and that they should not be underestimated to any extent. I would therefore like Finland to be able to play a more active role in managing globalisation. I believe that a clear analysis of the past, of the benefits of globalisation, but also of the disadvantages, is now needed and a clear policy agenda needs to be established for the second phase of globalisation and this policy programme should also be taken to the EU level, because I see that the management of globalisation should be one of the EU's top priorities. I would like to ask, Prime Minister Sipilä: are you prepared to take up this proposal and go actively to work on a new globalisation policy, including the fight against tax evasion?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u111	Prime Minister Sipilä next, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u112	Mr President! In my answer, I will now focus on these EU issues. Firstly, our government programme reads: 'EU membership is a political choice that links Finland to the Western community of values'. It goes on to say: 'As a member of the Economic and Monetary Union, Finland is committed to promoting stability in the euro area'. All ministers are 100% committed to this. Well, then, to this future and vision of the European Union. Members of the large committee know very well that we worked hard on the Rome Declaration in the Finnish Government. It shows the handprint of Finland, Finns. It assumes that we recognise and are proud of what the European Union has achieved over the last 60 years. It is based on a strong value base: peace, freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law, and so on. Together, we committed ourselves to working on the development of the Union, in particular under the four main categories: — A secure and secure Europe. That is what I mentioned in my speech. — a prosperous and sustainable Europe. In this block, especially now, the gap left by Britain must then be filled with the activity of Finland, the Nordic countries, the Netherlands, Germany. — Social Europe. This is still a dimension that has not been given a clear form in the European Union, but here we are emphasising a Union that promotes equality between women and men and that combats unemployment, discrimination, social exclusion, poverty and so on, and we have already put forward the pre-emptive position of the government, and this is something that is being discussed with the large committee. — — — — A stronger Europe in a globalised environment. We say here that 'we are pursuing these objectives with a firm belief that the future of Europe is in our own hands and that the European Union is the best instrument for achieving our objectives'. It goes on to say: 'We, as leaders, are going to work together at the European Council and interinstitutional level to ensure that the agenda we agreed today is implemented so that it becomes the reality of tomorrow. We are united for a better future. Europe is our common future." To achieve this, we need the everyday pragmatic work that was overlooked here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u113	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u114	Madam President! A few answers to the questions. Representative Lepomäki spoke of Nord Stream. In a way, this two gets the same treatment as the one, and Finland has considered it an environmental and commercial project. Some of us hoped that the EU Commission would have said something about this, but it did not. Then we sort of had a model of that Nord Stream one, and there was no real reason to reconsider it. This strongly divides the EU countries, the Baltic countries, Germany, many others. Mr Kiuru then asked if there were any other risks. Unfortunately, they do exist, and I believe that it is mainly based on the idea that, although it is not the same at present, this policy of the United States is being financed by UN organisations. There are many projects where the United States is a very prominent donor. And I have to say that there is a little concern about this Arctic side now, because three weeks ago we managed to obtain this Arctic declaration, which mentioned the Paris climate agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u119	Minister Niinistö, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u120	Madam President! Mr Kari asked how we would cope with the development of national defence if we were not part of the EU family. Usually it is better not to answer a question that starts with if, but let us at least answer it this time. We would certainly be able to do so, because, as I said in the previous speech, the hard core of defence is built on domestic work. EU defence cooperation brings added value, and hopefully it will produce more and more of it in the future. In addition, it is important to remember that we are engaged in important bilateral concrete defence cooperation with the various countries, and I would like to mention the United States and Sweden in particular. Currently in the United States, China Lake is working with the JASSM assault missile that is being integrated into our Hornet fighters. Such bilateral cooperation is particularly important for Finland in terms of the development of national defence capabilities, because, as each of us understands, our domestic defence industry is not comprehensive enough. Representative Kopra asked about Finland's investments in cyber defense. In recent years, considerable resources have been allocated to Cyberside through internal transfers by the Finnish Defence Forces. I cannot give the figures to the public, but I can say that the cyber threat has been taken seriously in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u121	And Minister Terho, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u122	Mr President! In short, just a few specific answers: Mr Harakka, I believe I was talking about a referendum such as the British referendum, not a resignation, and there is no inconsistency here. Congressman Wallin, you asked for a yes or no answer. You will have it — when the time is ripe. This is not the case at the moment, because this referendum does not exist in this government programme, which we all follow. The fundamental values of the EU, as has been mentioned here today, include freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, and I am quite sure that they are also intended to cover the debate on the EU itself. I'm sure we'll all be able to follow these. And lastly, I would remind you of the EU's own motto, which is 'United in diversity'. This is a great principle that I'll leave you to think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u123	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, if necessary, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of answers in the order I have considered. The debate on this issue will take place for 1 hour. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before the hour deadline, we shall move to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to offer you the opportunity to take the floor with the floor for a maximum of two minutes. — Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u126	Madam President! This Finnish cooperation in education and training in Iraq and participation in this operation is important. Isis, Isil, Daesh, whatever we want to call you now is bad. It's cruel, it's submissive. It commits terrible atrocities in that area and tortures citizens and, of course, their effects are also reflected in many aspects as terrorism here in Europe. We have to be able to eliminate them. Finland has participated in this operation in 2015, and last year it has continued to participate in the operation, and now this decision will continue to do so. Of course, this is one part of the response to the French request for assistance under the Treaty of Lisbon when the French terrorist attack came, so we are also able to shoulder this international responsibility in this regard. But there are actually a few questions now, and I would like to ask you, Minister for Defence, to ensure certain things. When these previous operations took place, it was very strongly emphasised that Finnish trainers have the best tools at their disposal, that safety is ensured by the best possible means and that there is no real involvement in conflict situations, and I would make sure that it is the same that we ensure the safety of our own forces, the safety of our trainers there? What is more, it is also important that we should be able to develop our own national defence capabilities by participating in this operation. However, the costs here are quite high, including EUR 13 plus EUR 15.5 million for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u127	Madam President! It is a great thing that Finland has given France assistance following the terrorist attacks in Paris by providing its own expertise in this cooperation in education in Iraq and by increasing this cooperation in education to double its resources. Here, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence, and there is also the opportunity to ask questions, the question mainly to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: although this cooperation on education is now being extended by a certain amount of time, how can you see whether there is a prospect of a return from education and training cooperation at this stage, or whether there is still a focus on this cooperation on education and training without assessing the stage at which troops and trainers will be released in this respect? And I'd like to ask you the same question as Mr. Savola from the point of view of developing his own expertise. We are, of course, primarily there to help, to create training and thus to create the conditions for making society there on its feet and at least a little more secure than it is today, but how, Minister of Defence, can you see how the added value of this operation is also available for our own defence? Of course, one way to gain added value is that when you give help, you also have the opportunity to expect it if such a day ever comes. In the same context, with regard to our crisis-management veterans and this insurance issue: are we now in a position to have insurance systems in place in these matters so that, in the Committee on Defence, we can all, including Mr Heinonen, believe that things have been done in such a way that if anything happens, then the crown will also be there to help?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u128	Mr President! I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the report, and I was pleased to hear that you said that there is indeed a plan to extend cooperation on education to this training of Iraqi police officers. I therefore see that the police as an institution in society is very important, especially if they respect human rights and are not corrupt. At the best time, at the moment, there are police colleagues in the world doing this work, and based on these experiences, I believe that police officers trained by Western police are a good foundation for that future of society. That I absolutely encourage that work and this expansion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u129	Mr President! Of course, Finland must assume its responsibilities in this regard, as in the fight against terrorism in general and in matters relating to the promotion of international peace in general. And it is also a matter of the fact that it is quite a few things in which the international community sees a common goal in the same way as it does in this area, a threat which, in many ways, even the foreign minister describes, may also be at its worst directed at Finland, because we know that our most important refugee stream from Iraq is going to Finland today. We all know, too, that the situation in the Middle East requires that different forms of action be taken to help calm down the situation in the Middle East and consolidate it. In addition, given the common view of the UN Security Council that all the measures available must be taken to address this situation, I think it is important for the government to take responsibility for this matter and take the path that this proposal is to be adopted here. Finland’s profile in this respect will rise, as I understand that the demand for Finnish expertise in these cases is increasing internationally. In this respect, I believe that the government's approach should be strongly supported. All the reasons are in favour of the policy proposed here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that: Finland takes an important role in this matter but also acts in a way that is aware of this issue, the exceptionally demanding level of this operation, and is able to act in such a way that it not only contributes to the situation there but also manages the possibility for Finnish soldiers to remain safe in a maximum way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u130	Madam President! It is important that: Finland also participates in this crisis management task and gets good experience from it. Minister Soini, in your speech you told us that 80 people have left Finland for Isil and you told them that they will return. Is there any more detailed information about them in Finland, where these gentlemen or ladies are, who have returned and what is their business? How is our society known, how are they doing, and what are they doing to them? How are they committed to Finnish society when they return from such duties? The second point is this training of police officers. It is important that Finnish expertise is valued and that this training body is acquired. Is it true that there are professionals like this in our neighborhood? Could they at times be heard here in the house what kind of work the trainer’s work in practice is in the country of destination?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u131	Mr President! The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned that Isil is only holding around 7% of Iraq's territory. This report mentions that once the common enemy Isil has been defeated, these The disputes between the various groups in Iraq may flare up into a mutual dispute, that is to say, much ago, and who is the one who makes that reconciliation? Mandela reminds me of when she used to do this shit in South Africa. It's got one big bottleneck. Then we must remember how many people have died in Syria: according to some reports, over 300,000, and there are many children. In this last chemical attack, children and women and all died, and many tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, have had to leave their homes. After all, what will this be after this Isil has been defeated? How much longer is this exodus to Europe or Africa? This is such a big thing that I hope that we can get this done properly so that the Iraqis too can live in peace in their own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u132	Madam President! We're still washing after the Arab Spring. Sometimes you can’t help wondering if the situation was worse than it is at the moment. The end result is certainly that the dictatorship of dictators has had to be eliminated, but the situation is very bad in many of these countries at the moment. This operation, which we are now taking part in, is therefore based on a joint UN Security Council resolution, and it is important that we are involved in this, and this has been a very successful piece of work. I would also like to thank you for keeping us well informed in the Committee on Defence. We have had people on both sides, both the Minister and the trainers and trainers, to tell us about this operation, and it has been a very good way of doing things, perhaps in some way new. The Vice-President of our Committee on Security and Insurance has already raised the issue. I personally have at least been commended for having been in good shape for this type of operation, which is even more dangerous. But, in fact, what I myself want to draw attention to are these Daesh fighters who return to Europe. I am surprised that people who have not been admitted to other EU countries will be able to return to or come to Finland even though their former country of origin has been another EU country. We also have to take this seriously in Finland. Personally, I think that these guys are not part of that everyday life and freedom, but rather in such a way that they need to be prevented from returning to Finland. Those who return should also be able to prosecute crimes against humanity in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u133	Mr President! Of course, this OIR operation is on solid foundations when it is on the basis of a UN Security Council resolution, and it is also evident that almost 70 members are on the way in this anti-Isis coalition, the Nordic countries and the EU in that way as a large group. The starting point for this operation is that each country involved will decide for itself what support it would prefer to provide and best be able to provide in order to achieve a common high objective. There, as has been reported, Finns train peshmerga fighters, their basic skills up to team level. It now also includes this support for the medical training provided by Germany. According to the report, the feedback is such that Finns have done their own job well. My question is: When we always make the right statement like this on the back of these operations, that this brings such and such benefits to national defence performance — which is an important aspect, and that is also the case here — could the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, at any rate, give us a little more insight into what this means in terms of the development of our national defence capabilities? What skills do we gain in this and added value?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u134	Madam President! When we talk about Iraq, its crisis, we cannot completely ignore the problem of asylum that has arisen in Finland. At the end of 2015, thousands of Iraqi asylum seekers came to Finland. Personally, I believe that our authorities have managed to cope with the challenge of honour in the circumstances, but recently one particular issue has attracted interest. It was written, among other things, yesterday on the Helsingin Sanomat opinion page. It is a question of young men of the best working age coming here, but some of them have not been in need of international protection, i.e. they have not been granted a residence permit on that basis. However, some of these people have found a job, and the entrepreneur, the company and the employee have been very satisfied with the employment relationship that has been created, and there has also been a permanent employment relationship, whose wages and other benefits are fully in line with our legislation and agreements. The problem now is that when such a person has applied for a residence permit on the basis of work, for which he would have all the means to obtain it, what is known as the availability of labour. In other words, we in Finland require that a company, an entrepreneur, first show that no equivalent employee has been found in Finland or in the EU region. Personally, I find this situation problematic. I think it would be in everyone's common interest for such a person to be able to find more permanent employment and thus obtain a residence permit for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u135	Madam President! We know that there is a big problem with these returning fighters, and this, of course, raises the question. Of course, we must have confidence in our administration and our officials that we are at the right level here, but the question arises whether we are aware of their existence and their location, as some representative has already asked. Of course, there is such a small question among the people, so that it may be good to get some light on the matter. Secondly, these crisis management tasks are more demanding than they have been in the past. As a result, the risks have also increased, and so the need for training will be more detailed, more far-sighted, so that we must also be prepared to see the whole in such a way as to be equipped with a long, long-term risk analysis. The committee went to the Pori Brigade this spring to learn about the training of the crisis management forces, and we did get a good look at it and we are confident about it, but I would like to ask the Minister: have we also had the training of the Kriha Corps in those arguments created and developed so that we can count on the question that, when a Finnish fighter with its training goes there, we will be at the level of every assignment, by the minute, that the task can be carried out in such a way that the troops are not in danger in themselves and that the soldier does not endanger itself? In this respect, I mean that all those risk analyses have been created in such a way that this training is always up to date with the more serious situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u136	Madam Speaker! One more question, perhaps for Minister Soin: This operation has now lasted — this is where Mr Heinonen described this beginning since the Arab spring — and this has sometimes become worse. The problem of Isis is still, and of course the aim now is to get involved in this operation as well. Isis destroyed from this area and entered a kind of calmer era in these countries. But it is not easy, and crisis management measures will certainly continue to be needed. How are we going to get ready for this time after the destruction of Isis? Here the report describes the possibility that Finland might be able to participate in police training. Are there other means, humanitarian means, crisis management instruments and so on, with which Finland could participate? With regard to this whole problem, how far are we already looking forward to the future, or actually to that time after the solution and at a better time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u137	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u138	Madam Speaker! A lot of good questions. I'm trying to answer some of the questions, and I'm sure the Secretary of Defense will complete it. First of all, this deadline. This is now to be directed towards the end of 2018. Of course, now we have to see how the operation is going and what the results are. This will probably be evaluated in early 2018. It may well be that if the defeat of Isil is progressing at this rate in those areas, the amounts may be reduced in this respect. But then again, as Mr Savola and the partners also asked what could then be replaced, it could be education. If children do not get to school, if society does not have a building, reconstruction, this type of thing, then it will come back to the same landscape: the Isil has been defeated, but nothing has been replaced. And it's a terriblely dangerous pattern, you shouldn't have it. Then about these fighters and their return: My own experience here is that international intelligence and this cooperation is extremely important. And we must both provide information and then receive information. This is very important. Very rarely does this kind of terrorist act take place as a complete surprise, completely out of the bushes. For example, this man in Manchester, yes, he had been followed but unfortunately was not stopped, or was not believed to be serious enough. Then, of course, as Mr Zyskowicz said, if a person adapts and gets a work permit with another criterion and is able to support himself and be able to show it, then it is a matter of normal immigration. If a person is a decent person and pays his taxes, I see no problem with it. But it must then take place on those criteria and not so that we come here first to be and then do not meet the criteria, this kind of fraudulent procedure cannot be right. Then Mrs Kanerva had a good overall analysis. There was no question, but I thank you for that. Then: 80 people — some of these customs duties are disappointed with those lies by Isil and somehow try to get their lives together, and they are not dangerous. But then, unfortunately, there must also be people who, in a way, are here for the purpose of creating a network or, as it were, sleeping, this is dangerous. — Time is running out, but I would like to say that this was a good proposal, whether it was from Mr Pakkas: if I were in your committee, I would urge the chairman of the committee to invite people of this kind to be heard there in your committee. I'm sure it would be interesting to hear when there are people who are actually involved. At the end of the day, what Mr Mäkipää said: Now that Isil is begotten, there are many divisors, there are Shiats, there are Sunni, there are the Kurds,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u139	Minister Niinistö, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u140	Madam President! Representative Savola drew attention to the security of service of our troops in Iraq, and Iraq is undoubtedly a high-risk area, but fortunately nothing worse has happened. The self-protection of our forces can be considered sufficient and, of course, we are trying to provide the appropriate means for our men and women who serve there. In other words, there is an effort to ensure the safety of our troops, but you never know what will happen. I myself went to Erbil in Iraq six months ago to see the operation, and at least there were no major problems. Of course, we are constantly following the situation. Insurance's fine. That is what our troops have told us, and for that, thank you to Mrs Heinos, who has given this matter a great deal of credit for years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u143	Mr President! Just a few brief points. Finland has participated in the Iraq operation since 2015, first by around 50 and the following year by around 100 soldiers. This doubling is linked to the French request for assistance following the terrorist attacks in Paris. After all, this is a US-led anti-Isil operation in 2014, involving 27 countries with more than 9,000 soldiers. The Iraqi armed forces, with the support of the coalition, have taken back the territories so that they are now in existence. Only 7% of Iraq's territory is in Isil's possession. The military operation to retake Mosul began in October 2016. In the old town, it is estimated that there are 400,000 civilians and some 400 Isil fighters. About half a million people have had to leave their homes. In Iraq, there are more than 11 million people in need of humanitarian aid, but the Finns are not involved in the operation to retake Mosul. At Menila base, Finns have trained the basic skills of a soldier for the Kurdistan peshmerga fighters. In addition, Finns have supported the medical training provided by Germany. The report presents a follow-up to Finland’s participation in training the Iraqi Peshmerga forces by about 50 soldiers and in advisory activities by around 50 soldiers until the end of 2018. Training and advice would be extended to include other Iraqi security forces and other areas in Iraq, along with northern Iraq. Soldiers participating in the Finnish operation can carry weapons for self-defense purposes. As this is a particularly demanding military operation, the Government will report to Parliament on Iraq's participation. The decision to participate in the operation shall be taken by the President of the Republic. Participation in the mission will increase our expertise and help to develop our own national defence capabilities. In Propaganda, Isil has already urged its supporters to strike against the West in their own countries rather than travel to Levant territory. It is assumed that some of Isil's fighters will return to Europe when the Caliphate falls. This can increase terrorist acts of violence in Europe. Finland’s crisis management and humanitarian measures aim to influence the root causes of migration from Iraq. After all, the Iraqis are currently the largest group of asylum seekers in Finland. Mr President! In addition to military activities, Finland supports consolidation efforts with development cooperation funds and provides humanitarian aid and also finances mine clearance. The aim of the stabilisation measures is to create living conditions allowing internal refugees to return to their homes. It is a major challenge to get reconstruction and resettlement started In areas taken from the ISIS. The economic situation in Iraq is poor due to the collapse of oil prices and the cost of fighting against Isil. It is also in the interest of Europe and Finland to be involved in the fight against terrorism and in building a safer and more stable future in the region. Wars and unrest are visible and have a very tangible impact in Finland. We often talk about costs, but there is already evidence in this operation of Iraq that the operation is producing good results, so the price is small compared to its impact on Finland and Iraq as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u144	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. In 2014, Iraq asked the UN for training and material support to assist its country in its efforts against Isil. International At present, 68 members are involved in the fight against Isil, including all the Nordic countries and EU countries. The work has produced results. Isil has only 7% of Iraq’s territory, compared with around 40% in 2014. More than a million people have already returned to their homes in areas liberated from Isil. Although the situation has improved, the security situation in Iraq remains unstable. The regions that have been released from Isil must be able to stabilise rapidly and reconstruction must be started. Finland has participated in education cooperation in Iraq since 2015. Finland's participation is part of a global counter-terrorism effort that requires a long-term approach and a wide range of means. Everything must be done to combat terrorism, not only at the root of the problem but also at the strengthening of internal security throughout Europe. Finland is therefore justified in continuing its education and counselling activities in Iraq. The new mandate means that Finland will be able to carry out training and counselling activities in addition to Northern Iraq, also elsewhere in the Iraqi region. The training of the Iraqi security forces and the development of governance will contribute to Iraq's progressive ability to assume greater responsibility for its own security and for its future. On the other hand, the slippage of the country into increasing instability would mean the spread of dangerous terrorism in the region and beyond, including in Europe. Madam President! The expertise of Finnish crisis management forces is valued worldwide. The local population relies on the professional and systematic activities of Finns. Participation in demanding advisory tasks also brings us valuable experience in the management, maintenance and operation of a group. This is also how we develop the performance of national defence. This operation is not risk-free either. A more detailed description of the task ahead and cooperation with the coalition countries will remain somewhat thin in the report. In the committee's deliberations, the security of the mission, the protection of our forces and the more precise content of the mission must be thoroughly examined. Finland’s participation in crisis management and international activities is an important measure to maintain stability. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u145	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for their answers to these questions which were previously asked in that debate. In any case, participation in this operation is an important part of our foreign policy, but we must remember that this is also an important part of our own domestic performance, because our own national defence is the number one, which is why we have the Defence Forces. And it was also important to hear from the Minister of Defence that these security issues are in the best possible condition, although there are always these risks and they must be recognised. But I must say that we must respect this Finnish military service system and raise our hat on it. Our reservists will not pale at all alongside the professional soldiers; on the contrary, they will bring even more expertise to these crisis management tasks from the civilian side of their own work. It is our good system that must be held to far into the future. It is important to conclude this anti-Isil operation at some point, and I hope that results will come and that this region will be brought to a slightly more normal place. But, as the Foreign Minister's reply has already shown, these problems will certainly not go away, these crisis management measures and humanitarian aid will continue to be needed. But in any case, the fact that Finland participates in this operation and that we are able to play our part in this operation against ISIS is an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u146	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 1/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. In addition, the 9th and 10th items of the order of business will be presented and the debate will also be allowed on these issues. First of all, Mr Vanhanen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u147	Mr President! The purpose of this Government’s presentation is to bring Finnish legislation to the level required for developing international cooperation. It's taken its time. The clauses on mutual solidarity in the Treaty of Lisbon were properly negotiated in autumn 2003 as part of the negotiations on the Constitutional Treaty, and in my own way I am pleased that I have now been allowed to finalise it within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It has taken its time, but it is a good thing that we now have our own legislation at the level of being able to meet all the obligations of the Treaty of Lisbon. However, as the Government's proposal and the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also state, this is not only because of the Treaty of Lisbon, but also because it is prepared to respond to developing international cooperation at all. Mutual solidarity between the Nordic countries and, in particular, closer bilateral cooperation between Finland and Sweden are also reasons for this legislation. The Committee considers it important that Finland does not have any legal barriers to its participation in support of other EU countries or the Nordic countries in crisis situations, nor does it have any obstacles to requesting assistance. Even after adoption of the draft Finland itself decides on its security policy decisions and actions in situations related to the provision and request of assistance. The proposal before the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes to introduce a new law governing the decision-making of the highest governmental bodies when international aid is given and requested. The proposal before the committee only concerns the decision-making of these supreme state bodies and not, for example, the content of the Treaty of Lisbon. I would stress that it is not just a question of providing or asking for military assistance, but that the content of the aid should be determined according to the situation in question. Mr President! As a result of the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the order of the Constitutional Committee, the committee has had to make changes to the draft law contained in the Government's proposal regarding the urgency procedure to be applied in exceptional cases of urgency and seriousness, so that the law can be put into effect in the ordinary order of adoption of the law. In its unanimous report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that the provision and request of international assistance, particularly in situations where such assistance may involve significant military capabilities or the use of military force, is an important, comprehensive and fundamental measure which requires the involvement of Parliament in the decision-making process, taking into account the foreign and security policy implications of the use of military capabilities or forces. Within the normal decision-making framework of the bill, the Parliament will be consulted either in the form of a report to the Committee on Foreign Affairs or in the form of a report to Parliament. This is a familiar procedure, among other things, for the decision-making method applicable to that crisis management that has just been discussed. However, in exceptionally urgent and serious situations, Parliament will be informed of the situation and the planned decisions and measures in the form of information to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In urgent situations, the Government must immediately refer its decision to Parliament in the form of a report. In the event of a threat to Finland, the national legislation in force will safeguard the ability of the authorities to act. The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses in the report that when Finland provides assistance in the urgent decision-making procedure referred to in the draft law, the possibility of using military force should be taken into account in situations where the assistance provided by a ministerial decision includes military resources. The committee stresses that, in these situations, the legal status, powers and self-protection of an individual soldier or military force must be as clearly defined as possible. In these circumstances, the Committee feels that an urgent decision should be taken by the General Session of the Government or by the President of the Republic, since, in an urgent situation, there is probably no time for a new decision authorising the use of military force. In other words, in plain language: in situations where a decision is taken in itself to deploy or use military resources, it must be possible to analyse in advance whether the situation becomes a situation in which military power is also used and, if there is any reason to think so, this early decision should also be taken by means of a heavier procedure in the sense of this urgent procedure. The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that, in order to ensure the practical use of the urgency procedure contained in the draft law, the Government must clarify its procedures, taking into account the role of Parliament in decision-making. The report should be submitted to Parliament by the end of 18. The Committee stresses the importance of this report, because it is essential for the functioning of the urgency procedure that the Government is able to act with a quorum in the event of rapid situations where decisions can be taken in the middle of the night or during the holiday period. At the same time, it is necessary to clarify how to ensure cooperation between the Government and Parliament in urgent situations. After that report, we also have homework on Parliament's side to look at how, in such urgent procedures, the various practical methods of action also work within this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u148	Madam President! This piece of legislation, which includes this provision and reception of international assistance and the government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Defence Forces Act, the Regional Supervisory Law and the Military Act, will perhaps bring this legislation into line with this current situation in the most appropriate way. There was talk just now of this crisis management in Iraq, of this training operation in Iraq, and now of giving and receiving international aid on a wider scale. We must remember that this legislation would be interpreted as more enabling legislation, i.e. that if we are asked for help and we want to give it or we want to accept it, that is to say, we are asking ourselves for it, then every time there is serious political reflection and political decision-making, involving both the President of the Republic, the Government and Parliament, at least through the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. It was clearly evident here that there was a strong political consensus that this whole package of laws was to be adopted. But, of course, what was most talked about, and I am sure that the strongest discussions in the Committee on Defence were also held, was these terms of employment, that insurance, the conditions of remuneration and so on are in order. Here, of course, is the fact that the reservists, who are involved in this, are collecting commitments and this participation is voluntary, but then, on behalf of the staff, this is compulsory participation. Of course, there are different opinions on this, but this is certainly the best option for the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u149	Madam Speaker! The report on foreign and security policy adopted last year states: "The Finnish foreign and security policy relies on and promotes the values, rights and obligations enshrined in the Constitution. A secure and trust-based society is an important part of a credible and successful foreign and security policy." The implementation of a credible and successful foreign and security policy requires effective tools, and now the committees have said their words on a draft law that includes such tools, i.e. the decision-making procedures of the highest governmental bodies when giving and requesting international assistance. I thank the committee for a well-drafted report. This has been worthy of all appreciation. We therefore now have a legislative proposal which contains a fundamental reform, and that is why it has been carefully prepared. Parliamentary committees have also dealt with the matter carefully and in good cooperation with the Government. The outcome of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs meets the constitutional requirements and provides solutions to the issues under discussion. The bill is necessary and, unfortunately, very timely. This is illustrated by the terrorist attacks in Manchester, in addition to the attacks in Paris, Brussels, Nice and Berlin. It should be remembered that Finland has already committed itself to implementing the EU solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause, which apply equally to all Member States, when ratifying the Treaty of Lisbon. The provisions of this bill, together with the draft laws prepared by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, ensure that there are no legal obstacles in Finland to participation in the provision or reception of international assistance. The mutual will of Finland and Sweden is the deepening of defence cooperation. The law also contributes to this goal. Finland always decides for itself what help it asks for and what help it provides. There is no reason to pre-empt any assistance. The law allows and establishes clear rules of the game in which the highest state bodies carry out a case-by-case assessment and decide on the request for and the granting of aid. The law also allows national decision-making in the provision and reception of assistance in international cooperation beyond the EU, and these assistance and reception clauses may be very different, but it is important that national decision-making procedures are such that decisions can be taken in changing situations and, if necessary, quickly. Even in urgent situations, of course, decisions must be taken in accordance with the Constitution. It was important to include the urgency procedure in the law, because we know that things can happen very quickly. There has been much public debate as to whether the geographical scope of the urgency procedure, the EU Member States and the Nordic countries have been fully considered, for example in the light of Brexit. However, it should be borne in mind that this geographical limitation applies only to the urgency procedure. Finland may request assistance from outside the EU and the Nordic countries in a normal procedure if it is considered to be in the best interests of the government in a specific case. Mr President! This law is a new tool in our foreign and security policy box. These changes, together with the legislative proposals prepared by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, represent a major change in principle. Finland’s security will be strengthened by preparing for aid situations, both as a donor and as a recipient. It is time for Finland to honour the commitment contained in the Treaty of Lisbon and to put the national decision-making procedures in place in such a way that, if necessary, assistance can be requested and provided. The draft statement in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs contains an important mandate for the Government to speed up and streamline practices in a way that also takes into account the role of Parliament in urgent situations. These questions will be investigated by the Government without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u150	Next, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u151	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, in the early 21st century, as the second government of Vanhanen was living in its best days, we and the Prime Minister visited Lisbon to sign the Treaty of Lisbon, which has been quoted here thousands of times. Our urgency has been a little vague on the implementation of this Treaty of Lisbon, the details that Mr Vanhanen has just presented, and also on the Government's proposal for 94, which Mr Savola, in fact, has already done here in a simple way. That's good. In fact, the whole process is unanimous in virtually all political aspects. There have been no attitude problems. The only hair crack in the last stage of this long process, as we know, is the service obligation already mentioned here, which has been interpreted somewhat differently at the end of this long process on various sides of the hall. I understand very well the views that organisations have wished to bring to this debate. Of course, it is up to the organisations to take care of their own views until the end, but, in the interests of honesty, it must be said that the negotiations which have been long, thorough, including the employer's side, have been exceptionally, say the Turks, to understand the needs that the organisations have brought to the negotiating table. We know that there has been a desire to come so far in this respect that, in any similar labour market policy situation or situation, at least I do not remember what has been quoted for decades as far as is actually the case in this case. Of course, this applies to the conditions of service in the performance of a service obligation abroad. I therefore understand the point that some argue that, if they agree to work for the State in terms of the status of the regular staff, these people have not been able to know the obligations that this legislation will impose on them at the time. But at the same time, of course, philosophically it can always be said that if you have gone down the path of the military profession, it has always been that you are also committed to defending the values that are considered right for Finnish society. Of course, it is a matter of defending those same values, regardless of where the geographical boundary is. This little crack in the hair on the significance of this issue is not disturbing the fact that I believe that this issue does not gain very strong and clear support in Parliament. I personally believe that, in view of all the points of view that have been raised here, in practice, the Finnish word which we give to the international community that Finland is a country of its word, a country of its word, and that, in a similar situation, we can also get help from other countries, other nations, can be found in the way of voluntary service. There is no reason to doubt that this whole orchestra will be able to play precisely in such a way that voluntary participation will take place. But if there is a small tactical core group, it is very important that the word given by the Finnish State cannot be tightened up on the international market when it comes to fulfilling Finland's national obligation. This is an important and sensitive issue, and in this respect the majority of the committee agreed that it is important for Finland's credibility and the integrity of the word that other countries, The States Parties involved in the Lisbon Treaty can count on the commitment made by the Finnish State in fulfilling its international obligations to the international community.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u152	Mr President! This is about the promise we made in the Treaty of Lisbon almost ten years ago, as has been the case in these previous speeches. In 2009, we made a promise that 'by all possible means', that is what this is all about, the implementation of the aid and solidarity clauses. After all, it has come to light, not long ago, in the case of this Swedish submarine hunt, where we were unable to help, and then, after the request of the terrorist attacks in Paris, when we had to take a little detour to give help when we were not directly able to fill the spirit of that Treaty of Lisbon. Perhaps even too much attention has been paid in Finland to the fact that it is said that we are always giving help. I think we are doing this for at least the same reason, so that we can also get help at the worst moment. I would rather talk about the law of receiving and giving aid. The Defence Forces will therefore have a new role to play in providing international assistance and other activities. I personally believe that, with the voluntary nature of these people, they can be found in these tasks, both for the reservists, where it is a condition, but also for the staunch staff. If I have understood correctly, this compulsoryity could only be involved in certain critical tasks, such as such highly trained individuals who have, for example, the Hornets or some other technical knowledge of the skill that others do not have. It cannot be that we are caught in giving or receiving our help. Mr President! The decision-making processes have been dealt with as part of this process and it is good that the parliamentary margin is covered as widely as possible. And if I have understood correctly, that is the solution that is acceptable to all, including in relation to these urgency procedures. We must ensure that the solution can be made at its fastest within minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u153	Madam President! I myself have had the privilege of dealing with the legislative packages in question — and I think we can talk about them in this context — both in the Administrative Committee and in the Defence Committee, and this big objective is to provide assistance and to expect that one day he will receive help, is an objective which unites all of us in this Chamber. There are details, of course, but as the chairman of the Committee on Defence has just mentioned, there are hair cracks, and perhaps a few thicker hair coats. On this point, I would like to make the following objection 1 in the report by the Committee on Defence: We agree with the arguments put forward by the government that responding to the obligations of the Treaty of Lisbon requires changes to Finnish legislation. However, the proposal contains details that we cannot accept. These concern the involvement of Defence Forces personnel in international assistance tasks. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is that participation in the tasks of military force should be based on consent as regards persons who have started their employment relations before the entry into force of the proposed regulation. The report by the Committee on Defence also highlights this very clear position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The involvement of the Defence Forces' main personnel in international assistance tasks should be based on a contractual procedure for existing personnel, i.e. the line here would be equivalent to that of crisis management operations. We cannot accept a procedure whereby an employer, contrary to the fundamental principle of labour law, unilaterally and without negotiation, substantially alters the conditions of employment and employment. These principles are, therefore, also in the case of soldiers, who have given their official oaths and military oaths in due course when they take their own oaths in accordance with the law of that time. On the basis of the foregoing, we propose that 1. The draft law will otherwise be adopted in accordance with the committee's report, with the exception of Article 12b(1) as amended by the objection: Article 12b, amendments to the objection. In addition to the social democrats, the representatives of the Greens, the Left Alliance and the RKP in the Committee on Defence have joined in this amendment. So as far as the opposition committee is concerned, it is behind this proposal unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u154	Mr President! I will deal with this Government proposal 94 and I must begin by saying that, in the Committee on Defence, we worked together well, in close cooperation, even though this report was not entirely unanimous in the end. Mr President! For historical reasons, Finland has had a relatively narrow space in foreign policy. Since the end of the Cold War, the situation has been more free for Finland, although recently international tensions have intensified again. The need for a legislative amendment authorising the provision and reception of international assistance has been evident at least since 2009 when the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force. In this respect, Finland commits itself to providing assistance to other Member States on request in the event of an armed attack, terrorist attack, natural disaster or other disaster. Help will be provided by all means available. The aid clause concerns the defence of the UN Charter, and it does not confer powers on the attack. In part, however, this amendment of the law is of greater importance than the EU framework. When the law enters into force, Finland can also provide and receive international assistance from other countries. The committee's report is part of a package consisting of a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the decision-making of international aid and a report by the Administrative Committee on the administrative branch of the Ministry of the Interior. What, then, is the significance of this legislative change? Now a new fourth mission will be added to the Defence Forces. For the first time, the Defence Forces will be given the opportunity to provide military assistance. It is a major change in principle for Finland if this brings us to the same level as the control countries in the legislation. The legislative amendment therefore strengthens the prerequisites for Finland’s defence policy cooperation. In a public debate on the government's proposal, the lion's share has received the participation of paid personnel in international aid tasks. In its report, the committee has stressed that the involvement of the principal staff in the tasks of international assistance is based on duty. There is no desire to be faced with the fact that a key person refuses to participate in a particular task and thus jeopardises the prompt implementation of the task. What is important, however, is that staff who are committed to international tasks should be used as a priority. The committee agreed with the Government's proposal that full voluntary participation in the international activities of the Defence Forces should be based on full participation of the reservists and conscripts. And you can't use an army for dangerous tasks at all. Ensuring that Finland has sufficient capacity to perform international assistance tasks strengthens Finland’s credibility as an international defence partner and helps us to be given help in the event of a tough situation. Finally, it cannot be thought that only soldiers who have entered the service of the Defence Forces since the entry into force of this law, as the opposition also suggests in the report, would be used. Then, for some tasks, it might be necessary to wait for even decades before a soldier who started the service after the law came into force. In my opinion, the Ministry of Defence has reached a conclusion on the conditions of employment with staff organisations in the field of international assistance. In committee, therefore, we felt that this would help to ensure that there was always a sufficient number of willing soldiers for these tasks. And the personal view is that hopefully we will never have to ask for or give help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u155	Madam President! Representative Mr Mäkipää said in his own speech that if this system were to be based on a voluntary approach, i.e. a contractual departure, as is currently the case in the crisis management sector, the change in our capacity to provide assistance would take decades before those soldiers entering military posts today, as if they were covering this whole spectrum of assistance in different tasks, is mentioned here too, both in the government's proposal and in the speeches, to seek such specific performance and to ensure that helicopters fly and so on. But, yes, I would like to ask the Minister: if we send poorly motivated people into these tasks, by force, by retroactive legislation, is that not more of a threat than we would pose to these new soldiers who take up the post of a soldier, as if by law they were already obliged to take part — when they came to know that these tasks also include international tasks? And those who came into military service before the law came into force would come
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u156	Mr President! I am a little sorry that we now have to deal with such an important issue around the evening when there are few people here, and yet in these laws, including in their implementation, the role of Parliament is very central. So it's a bit of a shame that this is the case. I would just like to say — and I am not going to repeat the important points that Mr Vanhanen has said here — that this is a very important additional contribution and an additional tool for the Finnish security policy toolbox and the practical implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon if there are any unpleasant spots. Not only will this international aid be given and received, but there is something else on Parliament's property, that is to say the passing of intelligence legislation during this year, which I hope will happen. Then we will have additional equipment on how we can secure Finland's position internationally. This is by no means a simple matter, all this giving and receiving international aid, it can become a very difficult place, especially in urgent situations where no pre-emptive situation really helps, but it can be such a special, serious place that they do test Finland's decision-making capacity to the very last, for example in certain terrorist attacks and so on. But really important things, and it really would have been good to deal with things a little like in the presence of a wider audience.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u157	Madam President! In order to achieve the purpose of the proposed legislative package, we had to select, at the beginning of the preparatory work at the Ministry of Defence, the policies for staff to ensure that: All the capabilities of the Defence Forces are available. The only alternative, therefore, was the duty of military personnel, both soldiers and civilians, to participate in the tasks of providing international assistance and, of course, of receiving it. However, soldiers and civilians involved in international assistance tasks should be selected primarily from those who are committed to or are at that moment ready to take up the international tasks of the Defence Forces. Representative Kari, this will ensure as motivated a staff composition as possible. However, it is also necessary to prepare for a situation where sufficient staff with their skills and knowledge are not brought together from those who are committed to the task. In such cases, the persons must be able to participate in the duties under the supervision of the labour force by virtue of the obligation to serve. The obligation on employees would be offset by the employer's own obligation to use primarily the Defence Forces personnel committed to the international activities of the Defence Forces. As this employer’s obligation is laid down in the law, it is a heavy duty which cannot be liven up on the easiest grounds. The human resources and conditions to which staff are being seconded will be addressed in the decision-making process on the provision of international assistance. These issues are therefore already taken into account in the decision-making process. The task of providing international assistance would always be a temporary task, so it would not be possible to complain about it in the same way as a transfer to another location. As usual in the Defence Forces, staff are temporarily assigned to long-term missions or courses of study, for example, without the possibility of appeal because it is not a question of fulfilling the obligation to move. In fact, all government officials are obliged to take temporary missions and temporary courses, as prescribed by the employer, without any special obligation to move or the possibility of appeal. Therefore, the staff clause proposed today does not differ from the normal practice of the State, since it is a matter of temporary tasks. Volunteering could lead to a tightening up of previously agreed better conditions of employment, particularly in the case of the urgency procedure. Mr Kari also raised the question of whether this law should apply only to new persons entering the service of the Defence Forces. The answer is no, there can be no division between old and new staff. Military personnel of the Defence Forces are renewed by approximately 300 persons a year. If, for example, the obligation to participate in military forces were limited to those soldiers who come into service after the entry into force of the new law, that would mean a transitional period of about 30 years, it would be longer for civilians. Secondly, we have a legal basis that, when it comes into force, it applies to everyone, not just those who have been recruited since it came into force. The principle of voluntary service would also significantly reduce the credibility of Finland's commitment to providing international assistance when requested by another country. This would have a negative impact on the attitude of other countries towards Finland’s possible personal request for help. Finally, with regard to these negotiations, which the Minister of Defence has conducted with staff organisations, they have been completed and the whole is still waiting for positive answers, but the negotiators of these organisations have nevertheless expressed their satisfaction with the conditions. And I can agree with Mr Kanerva, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, that what we are talking about here is very sleek terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u158	Madam President! The Minister explained that staff organisations would be satisfied with the conditions of employment. That is probably the case, because the starting point for the negotiations was the provision of conditions of employment for staff at home — conditions of employment for foreign jobs, for dangerous tasks at home. In other words, virtually zero levels of negotiation existed, and the zero level was already something that staff organisations were not prepared to accept, but then accepted these conditions of employment, which naturally have better subsidies and better financial compensation. But what the minister refused to negotiate with the staff was voluntary or forced. That's a good thing to say, too. When you talk about what was being negotiated, it is good to say what was not even being negotiated. And when you refer to and compare military posts with other temporary, short-term government jobs abroad, at least I see that it is very different to go to a European country with a briefcase or a world target with a gun.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u159	Madam President! The ministry and the minister must be defended in this regard. There was, of course, a major consultation and round on the committee, and of course this was the first issue on the labour market. These conditions of employment in terms of wages, as has been referred to here — these are going to be quite lax. Which means we're going to have a fair settlement. But it is the main purpose itself to prevent these obstacles from occurring: there are key persons of the progenitor who, in the worst case, may be prevented from leaving the whole force, the Navy vessel, the Air Force aircraft and so on, and, in the worst case, the entire operation will be jeopardised. And such an example exists from 2014 when the EU Battlegroup was formed, when this kind of small key group prevented this. So, first and foremost, volunteering, but it cannot be allowed to leave the whole operation unfulfilled because of a few people. That's why it's made in here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u160	Mr President! This debate has now given the impression that no one would want to leave and that everyone who would leave would leave under duress. In fact, when I have been allowed to go through this consultation in committee, I am left with a completely different picture. I would now like the Minister to open up to those who are still here in this Chamber, and also to those who follow these sittings a little bit, to see whether I have understood quite wrongly that everything is being forced, that no one would want to leave voluntarily. I have the impression that the majority of volunteers are available and that this is the way forward. And I would also like to ask you a little bit about these critical tasks, the key people: you certainly have an idea, Minister, of what kind of force or obligation this might probably involve.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u161	Mr President! I myself have been left with the impression in the committee that this whole idea is very much a voluntary one and that there will be volunteers. Through them, as Finland, we can fulfil the obligations of this Treaty of Lisbon, as it should be. The fact that there is now a suspicion in this Chamber that there are no departures does not, in my opinion, correspond to the debate we have had in committee. And I personally see that there is going to be such a big change in the role of those in the present employment relationship that it is justifiable that they should have taken part on a voluntary basis, because in fact, as the report points out in many other respects, there is going to be a first step towards volunteering, and I do not think that it would have jeopardised Finland's ability to fulfil the requirements of this Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u162	Madam President! As Mr Heinonen well knows, and as you have said in part, there have been volunteers leaving all the time, as well as our kriha operations, which are, I think, entirely voluntary, including with regard to the staff. But the concern I raised was the concern of the Alliance of Senior Officers and the Federation of Officers, not just the concern of the MP or the concern of a member of the Committee on Defence. That concern has nothing to do with the fact that we cannot find brave men and women to take responsibility for the wars and conflicts in the world too, but the fact that legislation is being created retrospectively, under duress, is the one referred to in their own statements by the Association of Officers and the Alliance of Petty Officers. Personally, I cannot quite believe that this legislation would remove the bottlenecks associated with this Ministry's point of view, that we must force those key people to ensure that they can fly that helicopter, without identifying, for example, tasks in greater detail. I have the impression that this legislation does not correct everything and we still need motivated people, not just to leave with the order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u163	Mr President! Yes, this has been a very difficult whole. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it was a question of how to bring this into line with the Constitution, and perhaps even more difficult for the Committee on Defence, the question of working conditions, but I appreciate that the Committee on Defence has applied in a determined manner for this solution. It is, however, essentially a matter of having a state treaty and the supreme state institutions must have the opportunity to make decisions, decisions to participate. At that stage, there is no need or possibility to consider whether it can be put into practice, which is why it is important that this is complete. I believe that as long as the years pass — and I agree with the representative To Mäkipää’s wish that this should never be applied — so, of course, the new generation of officers and soldiers who have already known that this is part of their work when they go to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u164	Secretary Niinistö, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u165	Mr President! I would like to say to Mrs Heinos that volunteers are indeed available for the tasks of providing international assistance, as they have been found for international crisis management tasks. That is not going to be a problem, I do not believe it, so the debate is largely theoretical in that respect. Representative Heinonen asked about these critical tasks, key persons, key groups, who could be affected by this possible obligation of service. Representative Savola mentioned the helicopter unit set up for the 2014 European Union Battle Group, and that is a real example of what has been publicised. This department wouldn't have gone into action because of a certain key group. But perhaps it is better that I do not mention too many examples of these key people or key groups that we do not get specific ideas for the future. But if it is true and forced to go, then the employer is obliged to take into account the weighty social reasons that can relieve a person of the task of providing international assistance. This could, for example, be a family carer and, for example, a person could be relieved of his duties on this principle. It should also be noted that this whole set of conditions of employment resulting from the negotiations with the social partners is in force on the part of the Ministry of Defence in the event that the core principles of the Staff Act, such as the obligation to provide services, remain unchanged. In that case, the outcome of the negotiations will then be sent to the Ministry of Finance for final approval in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u166	Madam President! We are at the forefront of a major issue. Indeed, the Chamber is relatively empty, but fortunately the arguments are not, and this service obligation issue received the attention it deserves. It is a good, important, key factor. We in the Committee on Foreign Affairs perhaps spoke more about the role of Parliament, particularly in relation to the urgent procedure and the possible scenarios that this change means. As far as foreign and security policy is concerned, I am already well used to the fact that the debate is often quite militant, it is quite masculine. I would therefore like to revitalize some of the remaining — well, there is one woman here with me — the fact that there can be a variety of international situations in which this article is applied. They can be natural disasters, humanitarian crises and many more than these military issues. My own concern is not so much about legislation, but about what our government's real practical capacity to act in such an emergency, perhaps in terms of intersectoralism and personal skills. We know that the government changes every four years, the ministers change. Are you, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Defence, practicing for these situations? Is the entire government staff there? Do you know what to do if a tsunami from the Arctic came? Completely theoretical, but in any case, more is the question of how in practice man works professionally than, perhaps, playing with these military scenarios.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u167	Madam President! Mr Elovaara did make a fresh speech, and many points I would like to sign. It also wakes up the headlines that came out of this discussion. We are also at the heart of an important issue in my opinion. There will be a new task for the Defence Forces when we consider that we must, however, bring legislation up to date in such a way that we will also be able to achieve the level of international cooperation that we need. The chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, also expressed very strongly in his speech the effectiveness, reliability and, first of all, the credibility of the fact that if assistance is needed or aid is being given, then there must also be a pre-reliance that another country can be trusted. From that point of view, we must build legislation, and this is also extremely important to bring it up to date. What has been going on here with regard to the conditions of employment in the case of ordinary staff was, of course, a bit horrified by the fact that, when I took the military oath and the oath of office, I was forced to do so. I understand extremely well the objectives of the organisations in terms of the debate and the requests for negotiation that came in the direction of the ministry. The result is, in my opinion, extremely good in terms of the starting point from which we started. I would also like to highlight the point that, when the legislation is completed, there will be an increase in the role of the Defence Forces. I would just like to point out that the task of PV is one of the important rooms, which is also strictly observed, and it does not leave much to be critical, but it is one of those rooms that is highly valued, and it is even handled at the point of the comma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u168	Mr President! Now it is good to say that Mr Hakanen's speech did go through very strongly the ethics of the professional with regard to these types of tasks. It's harder to put it into words. In fact, I asked for the floor, President, because Mr Kari here challenged Mr Mäkipää a little, and I wanted to stand up to say that Mr Mäkipää's arguments are exactly right. The Minister here also later referred to the same. This would, in fact, be more than 30 years, according to the pattern shown to us, to apply only to new members of staff entering service through employment. I suppose it cannot be the intention that this law, which has been expected for ten years now, should take this long to come into force on its full scale. The impression here is that if I am committed to this type of task in my military profession, but I have not known that it also requires missions abroad, then this law does not force me to go abroad if my life situation has changed. This law also makes it possible to take account of man’s life situation for compelling reasons that you are not to go there as a package, and this is also the answer to whether a person is motivated or not. If there are real reasons, given the military’s ethics, to refuse that assignment on the basis of its life situation, it is possible. But I do not believe that this will ever happen, because according to all the available forecasts, this orchestra will play on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u169	Before the Minister's speech, Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u170	Madam President! Surely this filling of posts for decades, as it were, would not apply to all 12,000 professional soldiers in the provision and reception of assistance, but, as the Government's proposal and the Minister's statement and expert statements show, a very small number of the performance that Finland can provide for operations outside the borders of its own country. Therefore, the talk that this would automatically be a 30-year system seems rather hollow, especially since it has been suggested in the same context that, on a voluntary basis and according to the above, the main issue will continue to be taken forward. Instead, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, of course, been rather brief in the debate. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs very clearly states that it would be desirable for this system to be voluntary. I have not yet heard any opinion from the representatives of the government parties on this, at least, on the way in which you see it, whether the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is so thinly written. The term 'favorable', at least in my own grammar, does mean a very binding view. But when I have put forward a critical point of view on behalf of the speakers, I would also like to say something positive, and that is the decision-making process and the parliamentary margin. The decision-making process went in the right direction, and the parliamentary margin needed in this House too was provided for the decision-making process, and thanks also to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for that connection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u171	Madam President! Thank you for this good debate. This is an important issue, and an attempt has been made in the yearbird, and now we have that instrument. We now have framework legislation, relations between state institutions, what happens if an unforeseen and unfortunate thing happens. It's important in today's world. We can always stack up a lot of obstacles, why nothing can be done, but now we have to think about why something can be done, given, received if it is necessary. The decision is always made in Finland. The decision is always made by the process described. There's no other way. Representative for Elovaara: Yes, we are considering scenarios of all kinds. That's why we have quite a lot of practice, and not all the practice is that the guys with assault rifles are slinging all over and out of the woods, but we have decision-making training: we're doing scenarios, we're seeing that there's going to be forces like that, that's how you handle cyber issues, how you do hybrid things, how you do it — and we have to do it internationally with others, that's extremely important. That if we're just hanging around here and there's gonna be an international crisis, even if it's the Arctic tsunami, then what are we gonna do? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u172	Madam President! One last thing that has just been forgotten to say and which I did want to be recorded in the Minutes of this sitting. It is the way in which the employer views these soldiers who refuse to do so for different reasons and the civilian staff of the Defence Forces. I hope that the employer will react with understanding and understanding that does not negatively affect the career development of the person in question, because this interpretation obviously remains rather at the supervisory level. I do not know whether the Ministry has considered how the guidance for these people who refuse to do so will then be carried out in such a way that staff from this point of view would also be worthy of equal treatment from the employer's point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u173	Madam President! I was still excited to speak after Mr Kari on the way in which the members of the staff are treated if they refuse to do so. I'm gonna take an example of a living life. It is not in any way appropriate for these international missions, but I will only tell you what the Defence Forces have had in the history papers: it was still in the '80s, in the '90s, a time when military training days could come more than a hundred working days a year for a senior college officer or officer. There were situations when a member of the staff had to inform the supervisor that I am not now in a position to take part in this and this two - or three - week continuous camp, and after that the situation was also sometimes a matter of crisis, so that the days of military training of an officer or college officer of its staff were then signed for for for a couple of years by that debate. But it was that time. I believe and trust that today the superiors will also appreciate the personal values and situation of everyone in society, the personal family situation that is at any time, and that will certainly be appreciated perfectly, and that certainly has no effect on the military service career.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-31-ps-61.u174	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
