ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u2	Madam President! The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the amendment of the Mining Act has been somewhat cryptically written. Its ultimate purpose is easily unclear. I will take a direct quote from the paragraph, which reads: "In the past, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has advocated an extension of the transitional period in the government proposal from the eight years proposed at the time to fifteen years. The committee considers it justified to extend the transitional period further and proposes that the Government undertake to prepare the legislative changes necessary to extend the transitional period further so that the abolition of mining districts associated with gold mining does not lead to premature cessation of their exploitation." In English, the phrase means that we want to extend the period of mechanical gold mining in the Lemmenjoki National Park until 2025. In connection with the reform of the 2011 Mining Act, Lemmenjoki machinery miners were granted 8 years to continue their operations, after which the areas had to be landscaped. This means 2019. In 2011, a long transition period of 8 years was justified precisely by safeguarding the rights of gold miners. From the point of view of the activities, tourism and the environment of the National Park, the deadline would have been much shorter. However, the political decision was eight years and was acceptable to all parties. The 8-year transition period provided sufficient time for mechanised gold miners to adapt to the situation and to use up their investments in machinery and other purchases financially. Fortunately, this extension, which is now on the table, is only the wish of the committee. The government should not start preparing such legislative changes. The Economic Committee's proposal is probably the result of a legislative initiative by Mr Kärnä to amend Article 182 of the Mining Act, which calls for an extension of the transitional period to 15 years. The bill mentions the employment effects of gold mining activities for around 15 man-years. The employment and economic impact of tourism, reindeer husbandry and fishing will certainly be greater. The importance of environmental values in the national park cannot be overemphasized. All the waters of the Lemmenjoki National Park fall into Lake Inari. The machine is digging into the water. Vaskool flushing is possible in the future, as it does not conflict with the national park's concept of action. The evening milking proposed in the report and in the bill is not suitable for the Lemmenjoki National Park or our contract culture. The decision on 8 years was taken in 2011 and should be maintained. This is also the view of the Sámi Chambers. The government should not embark on a legal project that reopens a matter already agreed upon. The awkward legal point has been settled, the dispute must not be reopened. There has been enough adjustment time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u3	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kiuru for his excellent speech and make a proposal for a statement in accordance with the text distributed on the table, in which the text of the explanatory statement read by Mr Kiuru is amended to read as follows: 'The expiry, amendment, withdrawal and transfer of the right of access. An individual question raised in the expert hearing of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy was the expiry, modification, withdrawal and transfer of the mining right referred to in Article 182 of the Act. In this regard, it is noted that there is no reason to extend the transitional period for mechanical gold mining in the Lemmenjoki National Park." This proposal would mean returning to the actual government proposal that we have before us in this respect and not producing an entirely new element from a completely different point of the Mining Act. As Mr Kiuru said, tourism is of great economic and employment importance. The Environment Committee has just completed its report on Hossa National Park, and it was found, among other things, that in online searches by tourists planning to travel to Finland, nature reserves are by far the biggest type of question online. It is a matter of far greater economic and employment values than the mechanized gold mine. It is the Lemmenjoki region that has recently received worrying messages about the clouding of water. Many of the people who went there say that the view is absolutely outrageous. Yle reported last September that in Lemmenjoki National Park some of the mechanized gold miners even violate permit regulations. Unlike most other lakes and rivers in northern Lapland, you cannot drink the water of the Lemmen River, which I think is a great source of wealth and pride for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u4	Let us take Mr Modig and then respond if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u5	Madam President! Mr Kiuru's good speech and Mr Hassi's speech are very easy to agree with. I do think that this procedure is bad, that we should put something like this in this report, which is not even part of the issue under discussion. If this amendment had been known, then it should have been sent automatically to the Committee on the Environment for an opinion. I consider this to be a bad approach, and I do not think it is necessarily in accordance with Parliament's authority. I am in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Hassi and I would also like to add to my view that national parks, as has been said in the previous speech, are also an important brand for us. Metsähallitus itself has explained that one euro, which is invested in national parks, comes back ten times as much. National parks are therefore a brand that we must cherish, and mechanical gold mining simply does not fit the nature of national parks. I would also encourage the government parties to support this motion by Mr Hassi, because it is not in any way contrary to this Government's proposal, it is not contrary to the Government's programme and therefore not contrary to the Government's objectives. It simply removes this slightly oddly brought-in burdock which does not belong in this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u6	Madam President! Unfortunately, it seems that all the Members who have now spoken are not sufficiently familiar with the situation there on the Lemmenjoki River. As a localist myself, the situation in the Lemmen River is very well under control and this change, this extension of the transitional period, on the contrary, strengthens the natural values of its region. With regard to the excessive haste, it will be very difficult for mining circles, if they are to be closed down, it will be extremely challenging, above all for their water management. Now, if we can get more of this extension there, it will ensure that environmental values can be managed in the best possible way. Nor are the speakers fully aware of the fact that gold mining is linked to this tourism in the Lemmen River. It's a tourist asset. And if the gold mining stops on the River Lemmenjoki, then many tourists will fail to visit the municipality. It is extremely important that this activity there can continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u7	Madam President! Mr Kiuru and Mr Hassi spoke well on the subject. I personally want to address this procedural issue, just as Mr Modig has already done here. I find it very remarkable that a very technical amendment to the Mining Act should be brought to committee without sending it to the Committee on the Environment, because it is thought that it does not involve these environmental issues at all. That was probably the idea at the time when we considered which committees would take a position on this. Now that the report is ready, we will see that there has been a very fundamental issue which, as Mr Kiuru has said here, has not been a solution of a certain nature since long ago, after lengthy negotiations. In my opinion, Madam President, this shows that if we are to act in this way in the various parliamentary committees, that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u8	Madam President! Mr Kärnä said that it would be better for the environment if this extension were given and had time to adapt. Business is pretty dynamic. I have been an entrepreneur myself for eight years, and now entrepreneurs have been given eight to nine years to adapt to this situation. I don't know how far you have to stretch it to the horizon so you can adapt to that situation. Then it was mentioned that from the point of view of tourism it is great to go to the national park to see excavators and gutters and other, raped surroundings. If I want to go check out the excavators, I'm going to the Ring on the third side of the yard to see those excavators and I can see enough of them there. We will have 40 national parks in Finland soon. Excavating machines are not part of national parks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u9	Mr President! On the love river, the gold miners were long before the park. It is part of the local life form, culture and business, and when the Mining Act was discussed, I thought that the eight-year transition period was far too short for people who may have put their entire assets into that business. I remember the discussion: the Minister of Responsibility specifically gave gold miners some firm promises that their business activities could continue, and the authority responsible for the fairness of government activities pointed out to the minister that he had spoken something that was not true. So the gold diggers were distracted. The way in which this matter is being put right now is totally unhappy, and it actually tarnishs the good intentions. There's a bill in there that I'm behind. On that basis, it could have been helped if only a majority of the government parties were to be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u10	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Mustajärvi for his detailed, good explanation and good arguments. Of course, I support the report and also Mr Kärnä's initiative. This Finnish natural use is taking on increasingly strange forms. It is quite clear from what has just been said that nature conservation and various rules and calming areas are being used as a barrier to economic activity. I understand this problematic, dangerous situation in the Lemmenjoki National Park in the sense that someone thinks that nature is going to be ruined. Well, I'm sure it won't be when everything's landscaped and after ten years, when it's over, nothing's gonna show up there anymore. But in general, this Finnish thinking model, in which everything needs to be calmed down, bans: We take 5 billion debts every year, we have 300,000 unemployed, and if we cannot use natural resources, is it then that central parks are built, all built here in one place and many billion housing subsidies are paid, your model to combat the Finnish recession? We have a hugely rich country with a variety of raw materials. Use those raw materials in a rational way and raise the standard of living of the people. With this procedure, which you are in favour of,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u11	Mr President! I too would like to draw attention, above all, to the rules of the game, the rules of the game in terms of how things are dealt with here in Parliament, and many have already spoken about it. However, this is a nature conservation area, and it is clear that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will also be able to make a statement if new proposals are made to the nature conservation area. The second point is that the transitional provision of 9 years, which exists here, should, according to all reason, be sufficient for any kind of activity. Then one of the rules of the game is what kind of certainty our legislation gives to the various players when we first make legislation and then most people act in accordance with its legislation and then we tell them that they have now been re-examined by those who have a very loud voice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u12	Mr President! This Article 182, which is dealt with in this report, has the background that, in 2010, when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy dealt with this law, the committee’s report — the committee’s position — stated that this eight-year transitional period should be 15 years. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has not changed its position on this point, and when this issue was raised in the expert consultation, it was also taken up in the report. As far as this legislative initiative is concerned, the committee did not deal with this bill in this context because this article was not open in the government proposal and also because it had fewer than 100 names. But, as has been said, the committee took on Rule 182. In such a way as to wish the government, when it brings its proposal in connection with the other mining law, would also bring this provision in this connection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u13	Mr President! Mr Kärnä claimed that: The situation is well under control and the environment actually benefits from mechanical gold mining. I read Yle's news from last September, which says that "The clouded water of the River Love is clearly coming from a place where gold is machined," says the Ely Centre of Lapland. They see that the activity no longer complies with the environmental permit. Environmental engineer Tarmo Oikarinen at the Ely Centre in Lapland has visited Lemmenjoki National Park on Wednesday to investigate the situation of the clouded water in the Lemmenjoki River. Recently, the residents of the Lemmenjoki area have spoken of turbulent water, which is upstream of the river. Oikarinen tells Yle Sápmi that the water clouded at the beginning of the week has clearly come from one place where gold is machined. In addition to that, the flood also causes humus when compared to the normal summer." — This is now a small sample of what is actually happening there on the ground. With all colleagues who have criticised
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u14	Madam President! These speeches still show that a large number of speakers have not been there on the Lemmenjoki River. At least I find it very confusing the way in which gold miners are insulted here, the people who work there, about 25 kilos of gold, dig from mining districts and make substantial money in the local economy of Inari and are also one of the tourist attractions. Similarly, in this debate, it is forgotten that the mining districts which are excavated without power will benefit most from this extension of the transition period. So those shovel-diggers benefit the most from this change. That I wish I could understand. I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for raising this issue. I think it is completely irrelevant how this injustice will be rectified, as long as it is corrected, and it is certainly justified now to await the government's proposal, and at the time when the government's proposal comes, the Committee on the Environment will also be able to give its opinion on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u15	Mr President! This must not become a government proposal. The question is quite clearly, as Mr Kiuru said here, that both the procedures and the matter itself are quite wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u16	Madam President! I do disapprove of these speeches that gold diggers are being insulted here. On the contrary, then, we must create a predictable, safe environment for all entrepreneurs, where legislation is not collapsing, and especially through the corner, changes that are not planned and which have not been sought. This Parliament seems to be quite strange about the whole concept of the national park. When we set up Hossa National Park in honor of our centenary year, there was even talk that it could be such a wilderness park. We can make wilderness parks, but it's not a national park. The Nature Conservation Act clearly states what the framework is, what is meant by the national park. Mechanical gold mining is simply not part of the national park. If we think of international tourists, it is a great disappointment when you have come from the other side of the earth to experience the pristine wilderness and you run into excavators. I don't think we'll be back again. National parks have also clearly been found to be of great importance in regional economic terms. But each one now had any opinion of the mechanized gold mining,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u17	Mr President! Now that there is much criticism of this course of action, there is nothing special about this course of action. For information to the chairman of the Environment Committee, Mr Hassi: The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has not adopted any new practice. I would point out that in 2010 the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has made a statement on this same issue and expressed its position. Now that this issue has been raised in the expert consultation on this issue, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy reiterates its views on the subject in 2010, but in fact makes no point but that the government can bring it to the table if it so wishes. If the government so decides to bring a proposal to this section 182, it will certainly then go to the Committee on the Environment for an opinion. I do not think there is anything special about this arrangement. If the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had taken concrete steps in this regard, then it would be a different matter, but it has now only been proposed that the government, if it so wishes, should be able to submit a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u18	Madam President! When the committee makes a report, it has three parts available. It can make direct changes to articles or laws, make statements, or write instructions and statements in the so-called bread text. They're all meant to make a difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u19	Mr President! As the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Turunen, said, at least the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy has been on the same side for years. And if the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that the law be drawn up, then if this happens, it will come here in due course and go to committee separately. In my opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done the right thing and, after consulting the experts, has taken the decision to ensure that mining districts do not run out of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u20	Värderade Talman! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy cannot always tear open the decisions that have been taken again. And if we agree on a transitional period, then it is extremely bad legislation if the default is that the transitional periods are being extended time and time again — yes, there too, we must plan for action within the transitional period and take the necessary measures. You can see the Ring on the inside of the 3rd. I can't believe it's a tourist asset in Lapland either. Instead, clean nature, clean water is, and we know that mechanical gold mining has a negative impact on this tourist attraction. This falls on Lake Inari, and it already affects fishing, it affects water quality. That's where the travel lords are, not in the lookout on the excavators.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u21	Madam President! Indeed, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted its report and we must live by it. In my opinion, in this house, in Finland as a whole, the mood is spreading that we should not use our natural resources — and, in this case, this job, the gold mining, has started in the 19th century, a long time ago, as Mr Mustajärvi has just said in his speech. But the general mood in this country that we are not allowed to use our natural resources, and the same applies to forestry, generally land use: it is aimed at concentrating here in southern Finland in one place and everywhere else nature reserves are then made. Do you intend to have 100 percent national parks in this country in 100 years' time, a few nature parks and Helsinki? Not in this way, you can't live like this! Yes, we must courageously use our natural resources, saving wisely, as Finland has always done. Furthermore, when this report was still unanimous, I would like to see us, now that we are defending government policies and Finnish land use and the use of our raw materials and resources, being in line. We don't get respect for jumping in and out here and back.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u22	Mr President! In this way, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the text in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy which has been included in the committee's report outside the articles of the government's proposal does not say this in plain language. It does not refer to the National Park and it does not refer to the Lemmenjoki River, but it refers to the mechanical gold mining of the Lemmenjoki National Park. I also believe that, when decisions are taken in this House, whether they are the text of the report's explanatory statement or statements or legal terms, they are such that their content is understood by a normal person, including a normal representative of Parliament. This is, in my opinion, a text in secret, which must be understood by the history of negotiations in the Mining Act between 2010 and 2011. I do not believe that this is an acceptable procedure either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u23	Time flies, so we still have time to take representatives from Kärnä, Modig, Mustajärvi and Kiuru, and then we have to stop the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u24	Madam President! I would say here that I think that extremely bad legislation would be one in which we are not prepared to change the decisions taken if they were considered to be wrong. In this case, this extension of the transitional period would be of the utmost importance, that there should be no exploitation of the robbery on the Lemmen River and that all environmental damage can be minimised in the region. I would also like to remind the representatives that: The Lemmenjoki National Park has a surface area of 2850 square kilometres — 2850 square kilometres — and a very small proportion, perhaps a percent, of this square mileage of gold is mined there. It is quite possible to travel there for a long week without seeing any excavator or by chance anywhere. Here we are creating false images of it as if we had a national park filled with some catheters. No, it's not about the Lemmen River. I am also surprised that there have now been a huge number of experts in the local economy in Inari. The municipality is the best expert and the municipality is in favour of extending this transition period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u25	Madam President! You, Mr. Kärnä, will be squirming. In other words, a statement has been added to this report, which is not related to the matter under discussion. Mr Hassi described this very well, which is why the wrong means are being used to promote this issue. You said, Mr Kärnä, that the municipality is the best expert. Metsähallitus has calculated that every euro we put in national parks will bring EUR 10 back to the regional economy. I'm sure that math in every county works exactly the same way. There was talk of gold miners being there long before the National Park was founded. Yes, but there were no excavators. There are two things that need to be distinguished here: shovel digging and machine digging. If your intention, Mr Kärnä, is to help specifically with shovel digging, then you will be happy to support Mr Hassi's amendment, which is only about mechanised gold mining.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u26	Mr President! Mr Kärnä and other representatives of the centre, especially regional representatives, should have remembered where local expertise can be found in the Tenojoki case. It's in the Utsjoki, and you didn't listen to it at all. And if the Minister in the Mining Act misleads the Members of Parliament and those most concerned, then it should also be remembered in this debate when it is accused of paddling with legislation. If this is the case, then the first thing to do is to ensure that here in Parliament, in this Chamber, both the Minister and the Members of Parliament act in accordance with the law. As a Lapp Member of Parliament, I have observed how many park decisions have taken away hunting rights, have taken away travel rights, have compromised jobs that have been promised. And, in fact, for 36 years, the municipality of Savukoski has been waiting for the road repair that was promised in the UK Parks Act’s explanatory statement — 36 years — and it has still not been implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u27	Madam President! If you want to get to know the historical gold mining and its surroundings, you should go to the Ivalo River in Kulta. I regret that you have to walk 12 kilometres, that you cannot take the highway, and then there are no excavators there either. But it is an historic place where these perspectives come up. The economic aspect has been discussed. Mr Kärnä's initiative says that the impact of gold mining is 15 person-years. The question is that when you put in another basket how much it affects tourism, reindeer farming and fishing, it is quite obvious that these values are greater. If we look from an economic point of view at what the Economic Committee should look at, then the economic values, from the point of view of travel, from the point of view of tourists arriving in the country, are certainly greater.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-21-ps-41.u28	In the light of the large committee meeting, the debate and the matter will be suspended.
