ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Legal Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 8 November 2017. Contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, Mr Harakka, supported by Mrs Karimäki, has proposed that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment should also deliver an opinion to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. At its meeting on 9 November 2017, the Council of Presidents has reviewed its earlier proposal and proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Legal Committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u2	When the revised proposal of the Council of Presidents is the same as that of Timo Haraka, the proposal of the Council of Presidents is expected to be adopted?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 19/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u4	Mr President! As is well known, the citizens' initiative in this House is of considerable value, and so, when it comes to dealing with this initiative, there is a great deal of appreciation and consultation with experts. However, it has become quite clear from the expert consultation that this summer time and the abolition of summer time are clearly guided by a directive which is so clearly written down to one minute that a nation state cannot give it up without problems. This leads to the rejection or rejection of this citizens' initiative and the accompanying initiatives. But the expert consultation has provided information on a number of problems that this transition to summer time will lead to. There are, among other things, health problems, purely economic disadvantages and even the agricultural disadvantages referred to in the Act of Action, for example, in dairy farms, the udders of the cow when they do not know about the transition to summer time. We have dealt with this very thoroughly, but this must be rejected when the directive is directed. But the big conclusion of the expert consultation is similar to that of the citizens' initiative. This is the essence of this report: "However, the Committee stresses the need for the Government to make a strong and active contribution at EU level by abolishing the obligation of the summer time directive on the transfer of clocks to summer time. The primary objective must be to ensure that clocks are phased out uniformly throughout the European Union." The impact of the directive must be rejected, but the committee is in fact obliging Finland to pursue this issue. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you are here! This is a citizens' initiative which I, as a Member of Parliament, also signed. This citizens' initiative has been signed by more than 70,000 Finns, and in fact it was notable when these signatures came to this citizens' initiative: they came, according to the People's Initiative.fi service, precisely in connection with these changes in time. The most active days were 27 October, 9 November and 23, 26 and 27 March. This alone tells us that changing the time is irritating to Finns. But it's not just an irritation. I myself have made the first proposal on this several years ago, and there are many colleagues in this Chamber who have made proposals, and I am pleased that now all the European parliamentarians in Finland have joined this front in order to put an end to this absurd activity. After all, Finland moves to the summer time on the last Sunday of March and leaves the summer time on the last Sunday of October. When we introduced summertime for the second time in 1981, it was justified by energy savings when sunlight was sufficient for later and the time difference was maintained for our main partners. Today, however, the world revolves rather around the 24/7 principle, and this argument is quite old. The so-called agency working time no longer plays a major role in our digitalized, global information society. A few years ago, in fact, our time gap with Russia grew to two hours, when an important, hopefully important, future neighbour of ours made permanent use of summer time. So that argument, which was used in 1981, has also disappeared. According to a report from the National Institute for Health and Welfare, moving to summer time also disturbs sleep by making it intermittent and lighter, while at the same time affecting the level of alertness and the performance of tasks. In fact, dream researchers believe that moving watches complicates the rhythms of the population to such an extent that the benefits of moving to summer time, if they exist, are not even worth it. According to THL’s report, the turning of the clocks disturbs sleep by making it very intermittent even over a longer period of time. Dream researchers believe that it would be more sensible to stay in this one time. Interferences due to the shift of watches are observed most easily in busy and demanding work and also cause physical and mental symptoms. Studies, i.e. this is based on research, have found that the number of myocardial infarctions, for example, is increasing every spring and autumn at the time of the clock shift. In a German study completed last year, as many as 27% more heart attacks occurred in the week after the clock was moved than in the rest of the period. In Finland, in the corresponding Finnish survey, the figure was slightly lower but nevertheless significant: growth of 15 per cent. According to THL’s research professor Timo Partose, the third study in Denmark also says that depression is increasing for several weeks around the shift of watches. Mr Partonen pointed out at the same time that the shift of watches poses significant risks to human health and should be abandoned. The problems caused by the shift of watches are therefore seen both in people's working life and everyday life, but also, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, for example, in the everyday life of Finnish food production, dairy farms. In other words, the transition to summer time is often a problem for animals, especially those in the dairy sector. Animals generally do not embrace summer time, even if the surrounding society changes its pace of life. There is an attempt to change the rhythm of farm animals on farms, but even so, the change in time can be too much of a burden. Animals used to certain feeding and dairy schedules suffer from the transition to summer time, and the change can be seen, for example, as a decrease in milk yield and an increase in stress levels. Summer time is justified by its benefits, but in reality these benefits cannot be scientifically proven. As I said earlier, there is much evidence to show that moving the clocks to summer time is only harmful. The chairman of the committee said that this citizens' initiative has to be rejected technically, because it is a directive at EU level for 2002, but I actually welcome this committee's report itself. The committee stresses and demands that the Government should take a strong and active role at EU level in giving up the obligation of the Summer Time Directive on the transfer of clocks to summer time. The primary objective must be to give up the shift of the clocks throughout the European Union in a uniform manner during the summer. Even for a brief moment in the committee's deliberations on this matter, I was involved and I was pleased to note that the committee underlined, however, that if other EU countries are not prepared to do so, Finland must also be active in this first step at a time, which would be justified. Mr President! This same family is also the idea that we should change the time zone, and I hope that this debate in Finland will also take place further. We should switch the time zone with Europe in common. In fact, it would improve our position in a significant way. We would be the first area to go with us in the morning, and that would be useful. I hope that this issue will also be clarified at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u6	It is now possible to ask for answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u7	Mr President! I myself have signed up to this initiative for action, which is one of the foundations here — in addition to the citizens' initiative, there are several initiatives for action here. [The representative microphone did not work. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u10	Mr President! This initiative is indeed necessary and it is important that this old remnant should finally be abandoned. The difficulty has been that this cannot be achieved by our country's decisions alone, but that a European consensus is needed here. In that sense, it is important that these efforts are strong in this discussion of the initiative. Many have also wondered whether it would be the right time for this summer, when there would be more light in the afternoon, whether the clocks should be stopped at that summer time rather than during winter. That too could be considered at that stage, if we can now move forward here, what exactly is this time zone of ours. But I am very much in favour of this end to the stupid shift of watches. It does not matter today in terms of electricity saving or anything else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u11	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is something that I warmly support. The citizens know. If we look at this EU directive, which is to be imposed here, then there will be a law and a directive which will cause us to have such a mandatory need that we cannot go back to that old system. In this report, which has now come from the committee, I also think I see a very positive position on this citizens' initiative. It quite states that the EU directive stipulates that this cannot be done directly, but there is hope. All Finnish meps agree that this old time should be restored.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u12	Mr President! If I were not an EU critic, such questions would make me an EU critic. It is the action of the EU that is depressing on this issue. Can we find something like this in a consensus? I would like to see one found in the EU countries, but it seems very unlikely. Yes, I think that although the committee's report is positive for this in the sense that we are going to negotiate at EU level and that is the main route, Finland should have the courage to do nothing but violate this EU regulation. Who of us believes that the Commission would put Finland in some kind of judicial procedure, a rule procedure for this kind of question? Absolutely not. On such a question, we must dare to show that we are on the side of the Finns insofar as the people support this proposal that summer time should be abandoned. My impression is that in most EU countries the opinion of the public is exactly the same. But you can't break this consensus unless someone has the courage to act first.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u13	Mr President! I must now thank Mr Heinonen for his excellent preliminary speech that Europe is getting sick, that people are having heart attacks. This does not make any sense in terms of health. It has sometimes been justified for business that we are in one European time. Today, digitality manages business, people’s mobility is not so important and it encounters there. It should be noted that the report's statements also came to a large extent, it is now said, from family day care and early childhood education, children's going to school and the learning difficulties that arise in this context. Well, there are also difficulties in animal farms, but M.T.K. had nothing to say about this. It's a wonderful reaction from the lobby. Let us hope, as Mr Mäkelä said, that when we stick to one time, we will be in summer time and it will be the right one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u14	Mr President! As long as the earth is round, in a way these time zones should be in their own place. An hour there, an hour here, changes are always in some direction, and they touch people's everyday lives. Of course, technique has come to help with that physical shift of watches, so that now you don’t have to watch the night and wait for the move to take place. Mr President! With regard to this national egoism and a certain type of criticism in relation to the European Union and other issues in the world, I too believe that it is appropriate that: Finland, when representing its own perspective, takes it forward. For example, on the information technology side, I can take these letters and letters. In the first place, Finland should have gone to the point where our national language range includes apocalypse and apocalypse, and so on, and not that they are merely letters a and o — a certain type of national selfishness,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u15	Mr President! It's more trouble than it's worth to move the clocks. I am in favour of putting an end to clock movements and I am in favour of this citizens' initiative. I have been saying for a long time that every day there will always be one reason to separate from the EU. Here, too, the EU reduces Finland’s political margin to decide whether or not Finland will change the clocks. The movement of clocks has been harmonised by means of an EU directive binding on all Member States. This means that all EU countries will have to move on to summer and winter on the same day. It is a good thing that meps believe that Finland could push for this in the Council of the European Union, and one possible solution would be for the Member States to decide whether to change the clocks or not in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u16	Mr President! It is a very good thing that this citizens' initiative has been taken in due course and is also being dealt with. Personally, I sincerely hope that this constant shift of clocks will be eliminated and given up. The fact is that this report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is very heavy when you read it carefully. That is because the Committee on Transport and Communications, on the basis of the report it has received, is in favour of the abolition of the shift to summer time, and the report also states that the Government must make a strong and active contribution at EU level in order to get rid of this constant shift of clocks. In committee, the opinions of the experts were very clear: the current shift of clocks does not have a positive effect, but always has negative effects on many things, as has been said here. In particular, I would like to stress that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u17	Mr President! It is good that this issue came under the citizens' initiative. Now we have another concrete example before us of how independent our decision-making as a member of the EU is. When the directive says that clocks are turned, whether they are turned, wanted or not, it makes sense or not. To this end, I am pleased that in the committee's position we have obliged the Government to influence the directive at EU level. However, we must ask and cast doubt on the fact that, when we have to go to Brussels on such a small matter, we have to ask permission, then how with bigger and perhaps more serious questions. Perhaps it would be a good idea to wake up to how the EU is reducing our national sovereignty and to open up a debate on what we are doing about it. Are we still fighting windmills in Brussels, or are we moving towards reinstating our independence?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u18	Mr President! I myself have signed this initiative, and just as I said in the referral debate that autumn, I strongly support the abolition of summer time. Once again, after a detailed speech by Mr Heinonen, it is difficult to raise any further points in favour of this proposal. Although the committee now states in its report that this must be carried through through the influence of the EU, I see that we need to make progress on all the EU tables where we are. These public health and economic effects are so great that I think it is very valuable to promote this initiative. If Minister Berner had been here — he is here — I would have asked a question...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u21	Mr President! It is nice and pleasant to read the committee's report. It is short but succinct, and it is very clear. This turn of the clocks is such that it has come to us throughout the years when we are talking with people, and in it too, the citizens have seen the strong impact and the importance of the EU directives in the everyday lives of our ordinary citizens in Finland as well. In other words, the turning of the clocks is justified by the fact that it is an EU directive and is the same everywhere. This report is very good and highlights the fact that the Government should make a strong and active contribution. Then how does it happen? Hopefully, there will be strength, strength and strength in it and we will be able to change that. As a night worker, a former night nurse, this matter is very familiar, because how every time I was on the night shift it happened to be my night shift when the clock was turned. 13 to 14 years of night work, all in all,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u22	Mr President! It is a good thing that such an initiative has been taken and I warmly support it. The fact that the European Union has taken a line in these matters, that we are even going to compete with time, is not very good and is not good at all. I hope that in the European Union our meps, the European parliamentarians, will vigorously push for this total abolition of summer time, that we will have one time in Europe for all. And at the same time, I very much hope that the European Union will focus on the essential issues that I am sure there will be enough on the desks, and that this kind of frivolous shift of clocks and spinning with them, because really when you look at those things that are happening in Europe at the moment, there will be a little bigger work to do. That things like this would be thrown into a junkyard and let the clock run in peace and people be at peace. It would have the best public health outcome anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u23	Mr President! There has been a lot of reproach here for the European Union's having summer time. It is worth remembering, however, that we were members of the European Union at the time when the summer time directive was introduced, that is, we ourselves were deciding that summer time and we are just as responsible as everyone else. Fortunately, however, what we ourselves have misordered can also be corrected at EU level. That is what I would like to make clear from Mr Hosko that this is not a small matter. It's a big health issue, it's a big financial thing, and it's a big pain in the ass for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u24	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is to be welcomed, and the Committee on Transport and Communications has done a good, careful job here. It was actually a surprise to me, too, to see how much movement of watches also has health effects and effects on the economy, effects on animals, effects on people. Some are much more sensitive than others. I think it is important now that our meps are united in this and the Finnish Parliament has a strong will to give up moving the clocks, that this message is being strongly exported to the EU. I would also like to see such a popular movement in other countries and the will to give up the shift of clocks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u25	Mr President! Indeed, from this debate you can see that, although technically this initiative has to be rejected, it can be concluded from this debate that, at a spiritual level, this is a citizens' initiative which is acceptable to Parliament. Everyone in the committee unanimously reached this conclusion and, as is noted in the Chamber, the whole of Parliament is in the same position. This will be a citizens' initiative in history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u26	At this point, I will give the floor to Mr Berner, Mr Berner, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-10-ps-116.u27	Mr President! I agree with the speech that has just been made by Mr Eloise. When it comes to the citizens' initiative, which the committee has taken up and which is being supported in this House, then I will also take it up and take it up. I have a meeting with the Commissioner next week, not next week, and that is the first opportunity to have a debate on this issue. We will also make contact from the ministry with the Commission, from which we ask for clarification, and then we will see how the process starts. I personally commit myself to taking this issue forward in the EU as well. - Thank you.
