ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall also be for a maximum of 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order that I am considering, I will give one or, in some cases, two minutes of reply. A referral debate on this subject will take place until 5 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 5 p.m., move on to the next item in the order of business, 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u2	Mr President! The Government adopted the present defence policy report at its plenary session on 16 February. The project, which started in autumn 2015, is therefore ready for Parliament to be protected. The implementation of the draft measures in the report will continue to make it possible to defend the whole country in all situations. General military service and the defence of the entire territory of the country are still fundamental fundamentals of our defence, which have not changed anything. Instead, our security environment has changed from bad in recent years. The occupation of Crimea and the war in Eastern Ukraine are also reflected in the Baltic Sea region. The acceleration of military activity in our neighbourhood is a fact, not a matter of opinion. Finland reacts to this change by maintaining and developing its defence. A credible national defence is a cornerstone that allows political room for manoeuvre even in crisis situations. Investing in our defence does not change the course of our foreign and security policy in any way, and changing the line cannot even be the purpose of the defence statement. The report rests fully on the lines already set out in the report on foreign and security policy. Thus, Finland will continue to pursue an active stability policy to prevent military threats. We are a non-military country, but, as a member of the European Union, we do not have the opportunity to be an outsider if security is threatened in the neighbouring region or elsewhere in Europe. This is based on the Treaty of Lisbon. However, it is good to remember that the Treaty of Lisbon is not a military machine. Assistance and reception shall always be decided on a case-by-case basis. Mr President! In the report, we have reacted in many ways to the change in the security environment. The most immediate of these is the development of preparedness. We are developing our preparedness legislation to respond to change. We have the opportunity to improve our defence by many means by changing our operating models, but to implement them requires legislative changes. This job is going on. Preparedness will be further developed in the Defence Forces' troops. The focus of development is on the Army, which in the last 15 years had become a training organisation rather than a preparedness organisation. The training of conscripts and reservists is, of course, still a key task for the troops. This mission has been accompanied by a readiness. It will be developed to respond to the demanding disruptions of the normal times — such as the widespread terrorist attack — as well as the threat of war. The readiness concerns both the Defence Forces personnel and the military personnel serving in the preparedness units. In addition, the preparedness requirements of certain reserve units will be tightened. Another key response to the change in the security environment is the strength of the Defence Forces during the war, which is raised from 230,000 soldiers to 280,000 soldiers. Critics have described the change as old-fashioned. So I have to ask what crystal ball they can predict the nature of the coming war? Are they following what is happening in the world, such as the war in Syria or Ukraine? In our history, we have our own experience of mispredicting. Few people, for example, thought before the Winter War that battles would take place throughout Finland from the beginning of the war. But that's just what happened. The war did not develop unexpectedly, but was preceded by months of political pressure. My example does not mean that a possible war will be like a winter war or even close to it, but that war may not be what we think it is at the moment. It is up to the Defence Forces to maintain a defence capability capable of responding to a wide range of threats. Diversification is the key word here. The war aimed at occupying the whole or part of our country remains in our threat images. Raising the troops of the war by 50,000 soldiers will further increase the coverage of our defence throughout the empire, as most of the additional troops are local troops. Or is there a corner in our long country that should not be defended? This was, of course, a rhetorical question, ladies and gentlemen. It is wrong to describe new, lighter-equipped local troops as paper tigers without the opportunity to act against a modern opponent. I am not willing to describe a Finnish man or woman who defends her values, her country and her family as a paper tiger. Troops shall be equipped in accordance with their duties. One of the basic characteristics of democracy is that the people have the opportunity to defend themselves. In this respect, too, Finland is one of the leading states of democracy in Europe. Also, new reinforcements will increase the threshold for using armed force against Finland. A nationwide network enables effective resistance in every part of our country. Mr President! In the last parliamentary term, approximately ten per cent of defence expenditure was cut. This led to delays or cancellations of planned material projects in order not to force a dramatic cut in training. The material side thus created a deficit which Prime Minister Sipilä's Government committed itself to remedy in its Government Programme, in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Study Group chaired by Mr Kanerva. The material investment funding will be gradually increased to the level proposed by the group led by Kanerva. This funding amounted to EUR 50 million last year, it will amount to EUR 80 million this year, and it will rise to EUR 150 million, including index increases, by 2020. This funding is needed to maintain a credible defence. It is essential that the level of EUR 150 million achieved is maintained beyond 2020 as presented in the report. Maintaining and developing preparedness is a response to a change in the security environment, as I said at the beginning of my speech. There's a price to pay for being ready. From next year, EUR 55 million per year is proposed for its maintenance and development. Most of the additional appropriations will be used for maintenance of equipment, preparedness exercises and other costs of the emergency teams. Mr President! In the 2020s, Finland’s defence is in an exceptional situation when the main systems of the Finnish Maritime and Air Force are almost simultaneously decommissioned. A significant proportion of naval vessels — a total of six vessels — reach the end of their life cycle between 2022 and 2025. Through the removal of these ships, our ability to mine or use far-reaching missile fire will be dramatically weakened. Departing vessels are to be replaced by multi-functional vessels capable of carrying out their tasks under all conditions in the Baltic Sea. Diversification is also the key word for this project, which runs under the name of Fleet 2020. It makes strong use of domestic expertise. The price tag is EUR 1.2 billion. The image of today's war includes the use of a powerful air weapon, which we have seen in Syria, among other things. The life cycle of our Air Force Hornet fighter fleet will end in the middle of next decade. This disappearing performance needs to be fully replaced, otherwise we will have an airspace-sized gap in our defence. The renewal of our fighters is a long-term and complex project. The better and more proactive the procurement takes place, the more cost-effective the solution will be. The conditions for implementing this so-called HX project will be created during the current parliamentary term. This means, among other things, preparing calls for tender for potential suppliers. The type and quantity of machinery will then be decided separately in due course. We're going ahead with the project. We're going ahead with the performance. The price disadvantage is between EUR 7 and 10 billion. Mr President! The Finnish defence system is a whole. It should be developed as a whole and developed on a long-term basis. We cannot afford to leave one aspect of our defence clearly weaker than the other, because it is precisely that weakness that a potential opponent will try to exploit during the crisis. The implementation of the guidelines set out in the report will enable our national defence to be developed in a balanced way for at least a decade to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u3	Let's move on to group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u4	Mr President! I was allowed four years to tour Finland at various national defence events and events as chairman of the largest National Defence Association in Finland, the Reservite Federation. When I started in 2012, there was great concern about scarce resources and the disappearance of the garrison on the map. Many asked after the cuts in the defence sector at the time: What if something more serious happens in the world, how will our defence be organised? These concerns proved to be justified by the events in Ukraine. Finland promotes stability, security and cooperation in its foreign, security and defence policy. An active stability policy is based on a smart and prudent foreign policy, a credible national defence and broad international cooperation to support it. In response to the Government's report on foreign and security policy, the Parliament stated that Finland would not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other states. We must act in such a way that our country does not become a party to a military conflict and is not subject to military action. In order to ensure this, our insurance must be in order. This means that our defence capability must be credible in all respects and that our capabilities must form an insurmountable threshold for a potential attacker. Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the defence budget was cut more than in any other administrative sector. Oversized cuts forced the Defence Forces to chastise regional defence and to disband large numbers of provincial garrisons. For example, as far as my municipality of Ähtäris is concerned, as many as three garrisons were cut off from the 100 - km radius. The reduction of military daytime and reserve refresher training, as well as the reduction of regional troops' equipment, were a threat to our regional defence. The wartime's strength was reduced to 230,000 soldiers. During this term of government, there has been a change of direction in defence policy. Appropriations for activities and procurement have been increased. The Central Finland Parliament Group supports the acquisition decision of Laivue 2020 and supports the commitment in principle to replace Hornet equipment in the next decade. The change in military threats requires Finland to have a strong defence capability throughout the country, a rapid preparedness and the ability to respond to diverse situations. Performance needs to be developed simultaneously with all defence branches. Our ability to respond to various cyber and hybrid threats must also be strengthened. The Central Parliamentary Group stresses the importance of local forces in supporting operational and regional forces and in communicating with other authorities. Our extensive, trained reserve must be given responsible tasks. More resources need to be allocated to the field of voluntary national defence. The equipment and skills of our local troops must be in proper condition. Raising the number of wartime troops to 280,000 soldiers will improve the defence capability of the entire country. Mr President! Our national defence is strengthened by extensive networking and close international cooperation. There is a special role in deepening defence cooperation with Sweden. We share a common environment and work together to strengthen the security of the entire Baltic Sea region. Finland has a wide cooperation network in the field of defence, including Nordic cooperation, deepening EU defence policy, partnership with NATO and bilateral framework arrangements with different countries. The Centre Party's Parliamentary Group considers it important that defence cooperation be considered as a whole in the committee's deliberations on the report. It must be developed in a long-term, consistent and systematic manner. The resources of a small country must be directed towards activities that strengthen the conditions for our national defence. The Central Parliamentary Group stresses the EU's role as a security community and supports the determined development of EU defence cooperation. It would be useful for Finland to participate in permanent structured cooperation focused on Arctic and winter conditions, for example. Mr President! Finland must continue to develop its security and defence policy in such a way that all parliamentary parties are involved in parliamentary monitoring and preparation and are able to participate, over the term of government. Let us stick to our basic pillars: general military duty, armed forces based on reserve people and the defence of Finland as a whole. As infantry general Adolf Ehrnrooth said: "Finland is a good country. It's the best thing for us Finns. It is a country worthy of defence, and its only defender is Finland's own people."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u5	Mr President! Next week the Memorial of the end of the Winter War will be celebrated again in different parts of Finland. 77 years have passed since the end of this year. On the day after the truce, the military commander-in-chief Mannerheim said in his speech: "Our army was small and its reserves and cadres were inadequate. They weren't prepared to fight the Great Power." The Government's defence statement does not say anything about preparedness for war, but it states the fact that Finland's security environment has changed and needs to be reacted to. Finland’s defence will be strengthened, developed comprehensively and created in the future. The Finnish Parliament Group supports the guidelines of the report prepared in parliamentary cooperation. This parliamentary term is a period for the development of the army, as Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö has said. During the next parliamentary term, the focus will be on compensation projects for obsolete naval vessels and fighters. The report will lay the foundations for these major acquisitions. No one wants a war, but a credible defence is a factor of stability in our region. Don't stay in the fire. Mr President! What do we do now? To sum up, preparedness is being improved, material procurement is being invested and wartime troops are being increased. Strategic performance projects will also be prepared. Improving preparedness in practice means training troops, developing material readiness and legislative changes, such as the Military Intelligence Act, to improve the early warning capability. The Finnish Parliament Group welcomes the fact that future material acquisitions and the Laivue 2020 project know more orders for the Finnish defence industry. International defence cooperation is one of the means to strengthen our security. The deepening of defence cooperation contributes to the conditions for cooperation in times of crisis. We do not have security guarantees, but cooperation with NATO, the EU and bilaterally with Sweden and the United States and the legislation that allows for the provision and reception of international aid are aimed at giving us better access to aid in a tight position. In this same day’s order, Mannerheim states: “We have received no more foreign aid than two battalions reinforced by artillery and aircraft on our fronts.” Today, our foreign policy position is more stable. It has been strengthened by decades of efforts and will continue to do so. Mr President! Strong national defence is the cornerstone of our defence solution. During the last term of government, 10 per cent of the defence budget was cut, wartime troops were reduced by one third and six garrisons were abolished. This was based on an incorrect assessment of the development of our safety environment. The Finnish Parliament also complains about the decision taken during the last parliamentary term to accede to the Ottawa Convention on Antipersonnel Mines. Anti-personnel mines would have been a very cost-effective way of contributing to Finland's defence. Today, the deterrence that has been lost with anti-personnel mines is being replaced by Minister Niinistö and innovation in the domestic industry by developing entirely new performance. We will hear about the results, hopefully, already in the course of this year. It is significant that the strength of the Finnish wartime forces is presented in the report to increase to 280,000 soldiers and that the defence of the whole country is strengthened. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group supports this approach. A significant increase in local troops is planned, which would be carried out in cooperation with voluntary defence organisations in accordance with the Nordic model. The whole of Finland is defended. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Minister Niinistö, on behalf of the Finnish Parliament Group, for his excellent hard work and dedication in the development and modernisation of Finnish defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u6	Mr President! Throughout a hundred years of national history, we have, as a rule, taken care of our own defence. It is a permanent part of our security policy thinking, one side of which is a responsible foreign policy. The old fundamental truths, that is, wise foreign policy and credible defence, also today, guarantee the basis for our security. The defence statement is an important policy. It has been prepared in a very open parliamentary manner, for which I thank Minister of Defence Niinistö and Mr Kääriäinen. It is good to build national unity from time to time. For the first time, we are able to focus our attention on our defence capabilities and the development needs of the new security situation. Foreign and security policy and internal security have already been discussed in previous reports. One of these should become what we call total security. It is a Finnish speciality, whose importance is emphasised in the world of hybrid influence. We know how to do this, and it has, of course, been taken into account both in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Alliance. Finland shows how different safety authorities work together seamlessly, among other things. The progressive increase in material procurement appropriations and the resources allocated to preparedness are essential for the Defence Forces on a cost-cutting basis. Of course, there has been a great deal of interest in strategic performance projects. Now we are seeking a common commitment to how these matters are handled. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to strengthen our defences because we are preparing for war, but because we will never go to war again. These giant acquisitions will significantly increase our defence budget. In order to make the GDP share used by Finland's defence comparable internationally, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party proposes that in the future, even in accordance with international standards, the expenditure of the crisis management forces, personnel pensions and the Border Guard should be counted in Finnish defence expenditure. With these indicators, we are certainly not underachieved even at the moment, let alone when the additional appropriations set out in the report are made available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u9	Mr President! Finnish security is well-managed today. At the heart of our security policy is active foreign policy, good neighbourly relations and strong international cooperation. In our security policy, the Social Democrats are in favour of a sustainable policy and of remaining outside the military alliances. Finland does not threaten anyone or allow its territory to be used for attacks against any state. The Social Democrats consider credible defence to be an essential part of our security policy. Finland’s own defence capability is also an important factor in the stability of the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region. The defence of the country as a whole and the credibility of its own defence require a general military duty. Today we are pleased that the demands for universal military service to be abandoned have been silenced. Our own defence capability is strengthened by developing international cooperation. This includes Nordic cooperation, EU cooperation and the possibilities for cooperation based on the NATO Partnership for Peace. We welcome the continuation of international defence cooperation and its development by the Sipilä Government. We would have liked the Government in its defence statement to have opened up the defence cooperation perspectives beyond what has now been presented, particularly in the context of new demand for EU defence cooperation, and Sweden's readiness for close cooperation has been demonstrated by the Government's orientation. Mr President! International cooperation is dealt with in the report rather narrowly. This section needs a more detailed analysis of the current situation and trends in the parliamentary process. Our membership of the European Union has undeniably brought defence added value to Finland outside military alliances. Defence cooperation must also have its own objectives, not just as a continuation of the queue. As a small country, we cannot afford everything, and that is why the areas of cooperation must be carefully considered and our own needs. There's been a lot of talk about practice. Participation in Finnish defence exercises must continue to be in order to increase our own performance and secure our national sovereignty. Exercise must support the basic line of our security policy and respect our decision to stay out of military alliances in the prevailing circumstances. It is also important that the Foreign and Defence Policy Service adheres to a democratically defined security policy line. Mr President! The credible defence capability includes the renewal of the aging fleet of the Air and Navy. In view of the scale of large-scale procurements, a thorough debate on procurement needs to be held. A position on the detailed implementation of procurement can only be taken after this debate. The Social Democrats stress that the decision on new contracts must at the same time secure the financing of basic services for our welfare society and social security that is important to our citizens. The hull of our defence will continue to be the sufficient performance of the Army. The Social Democratic Parliament requires that, in order to solve the new large procurement programmes, securing the operating conditions of the Army is under simultaneous review. Finland is defended, not by images, but by real performance. By changing the calculation methods of the troops, performance will not improve. The good thing about this proposal is the extension of the availability of local defence forces. It is important to develop local defence as part of the overall defence of the country. Mr President! The credibility of our security agenda is strengthened by the strong support of our citizens and the ability of parties to cooperate in the practical implementation of our security policy. I would like to pay tribute here to the President of the Republic and to the Prime Minister, who, in the preparation of this report, have also wanted to pursue a policy of consensus. The SDP stresses the importance of broad parliamentary consensus in the key aspects of our security policy. Defence policy is a form of marathon and its choices, such as procurement, extend over several parliamentary term. The defence statement has been made in loose contact with the UTP report, listening to some of the comments made by the Parliamentary Monitoring Group. It should therefore be considered whether the current reporting process is working properly. One option would be to integrate these reports into a single set of basic security policy guidelines in the future. Changes and conclusions from our security environment should be assessed beyond the Government-Opposition boundary and before the actual writing of the report begins. I believe that the debate in the Committee on Defence will make this report even better together, Mr Tillsammans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u10	Mr President! The security situation in Finland's neighbourhood has deteriorated, and the defence report now under discussion responds to this change. It responds to this by means of large arms purchases, by increasing the number of troops in the war and by increasing preparedness. The Greens felt that the report could have been more attentive to changes in warfare and to responding to new kinds of threats. Performance is traditionally handled through different defence branches, although the importance of interoperability is increasingly important. It is a good thing that cyber defense has been brought into the report, even though the efforts made towards cyber defence remain limited. It is worth noting that increasing the number of wartime troops is mainly a technical change due to the method of calculation. In the future, we'll count wartime founding forces, garrisons and border troops. In the event of a war, these troops would be part of our defence now. The reason for the change in the billing system is that it is not just party policy but defence policy. Mr President! It is clear that Finland must take care of its own credible defence capability. The Greens are committed to replacing the obsolete fleet and performance of the Marine and Air Force, although we are not committed to certain euro amounts. Nor have we committed ourselves to any kind of funding that would finance defence procurement by cutting off welfare services. In such large procurements, decisions cannot be taken on the principle of taking or leaving decisions. In the debate, we must not ignore the question marks that have arisen from procurement. Genuine alternatives are needed to ensure that politicians have sufficient resources to make decisions. Mr President! The report talks about security of supply. It should also take into account energy self-sufficiency during the war and crisis, which is secured by domestic biofuels and renewable energy sources. The report on foreign and security policy highlighted much of the resilience of society. The defence work should therefore be seen as a broader concept. It should involve not only traditional defence organisations but also other actors who maintain the resilience of society to crisis and thus strengthen our overall security. The will and skill to defend the country do not look at gender. The report sets the objective of increasing the number of women in crisis management. The number of women in military service should also be increased, and this could be started by extending the invitations to women. In the future, steps should be taken towards gender - treated military service. Mr President! The report highlights defence procurement and defence resources. The defence policy policies themselves are less ambitious. At present, rather than multilateral cooperation, bilateral agreements are underlining in the world. It's not the best option for a small country. It is therefore good that Finland is actively committed to developing the permanent structures of the European Union's defence cooperation in the report. It is also in Finland’s interest to participate actively in various EU projects in the fields of defence and crisis management. One partner has a special role to play in bilateral defence cooperation, in the view of both the Greens and the Defence Report. It's Sweden. Unfortunately, however, cooperation with Sweden is only recorded in a few lines. The report does not impose any constraints on the deepening of defence cooperation with Sweden, and that is a good thing, but there are no targets for it either. We Greens are setting targets for cooperation with Sweden. Our aim is to increase joint training, as well as defence industry cooperation. We want to harmonise security of supply, such as the joint use of airports, the repair of equipment and the safekeeping of equipment in a crisis situation. We would train Swedish and Finnish troops under one leadership in military exercises, as is already done in crisis management. The aim of the Greens for cooperation between Finland and Sweden is a common defence cooperation agreement with security guarantees, even if it does not happen in the short term. Mr President! It is worth saying out loud that increasing the defence budget is always a bad thing and is partly indicative of the failure of foreign policy. The goal must always be to curb armaments, when there are no winners. The threat of nuclear weapons has returned to international politics. Finland must support the UN in the negotiations for a binding treaty banning nuclear weapons. We need to consider how Finland can contribute to disarmament internationally even at this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u11	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Monitoring Group, and in particular its chairman, Mrs Käärääinen, for her smooth and intensive work. At least the activity of the steering group was not caught up in the fact that not all of our legitimate positions were taken into account in the final text of the report. The defence report is adversarial in tone, even powdered. We wonder why the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the report on foreign and security policy was not clearly taken as the basis for the description of the operating environment. However, it is the most recent will expressed by Parliament. Russia is a great power, it has its own interests. It works in accordance with them and not everything should be accepted, especially violations of international law. Finland should always know what is happening in the neighbouring country, but the situation in Ukraine and Crimea cannot be replicated as such to the Baltic Sea region. Stimulating unnecessary threats will not increase anyone’s safety. It is important to include in the report an indication that Finland does not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other countries. It is conditional on a cooperative stability policy and credible defence. The proposed increase must be considered in relation to the NATO host agreement, as it aims to create a framework for Finland to make its infrastructure, airport, port and transport connections available to the military alliance. Finland should be more active in supporting secession, including nuclear holocaust, and especially in the Baltic Sea region. Finland’s strong role is conditional on military non-alignment. It also means non-alignment in the direction of Sweden, although defence cooperation with Sweden can bring benefits. In all situations, Finland must make decisions while preserving national mobility. How many proponents of NATO membership dare today to say that it is in the interests of Finland if we tie ourselves to the side of the US President Donald Trump's administration? If we join forces with the United States, who will we join forces with? Those driving Finland into the military alliance are moving forward on all possible fronts, and this is also reflected in the report. Nearly 100 international military exercises are held in Finland each year. Finland has concluded a bilateral agreement with the United States and Great Britain, among others. The UK also leads the JEF group to which Finland is attached. These common rapid forces are supposed to be able to operate anywhere in the world. The Northern Group also wants Finland to be more closely integrated into NATO structures. What happened to the role of the UN and the mandate of the UN? The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group does not approve of the militarisation of the EU. The construction of a war-industrial complex is being sought to solve all the enormous internal and external problems facing the EU. Is that the glue that holds the EU together? Mr President! An attempt has been made to apply for as broad a support as possible for future giant acquisitions in the Finnish Air and Navy, as well as for additional appropriations in the Ministry of Defence's section. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group requires that all of these be assessed as a whole and primarily with the capability of the Army. We don't give you an open proxy. We do not accept the number of replacement fighters, over 60 aircraft. We also question the proposed price estimate of between EUR 7 and 10 billion. In the case of weapons systems and life-cycle costs, the total may be multiplied by at least two. It is simply too much in a country where we are still living in a time of mass unemployment and people's basic security is cut after the heaviest. Yesterday, here in Parliament, we discussed social reform. It wants to save EUR 3 billion. It's a huge amount. In the preliminary price estimate of the fighters' acquisitions, the Gap alone is that 3 billion, that is, more than the budget for one year for the entire Ministry of Defence. The country of acquisition of the reduced number of fighters may well be Sweden. In this way we would strengthen the industrial base and improve employment and the order book of Finnish companies. If battleships of the Navy Fleet 2020 project are acquired, the acquisition must be made in the country of origin. What is essential is whether these ships sail the Baltic Sea, serving national defences or on the seas of the world, serving some other gentleman. In these procurements, Finland must be nationally selfish in a healthy way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u12	Mr President, värderade talman! Regeringens försvarspolitiska redogörelse är den första i sitt slag då den den rai gången brutits ut från den utrikes- och säkerhetiska redogörelsen och avgivits som en separat helmet. Även om förfarandet är nowt finns det goda grunder för att focusera speciellt på försvaret uttryckligen just nu. Den 100-åriga republicens försvarsmakt har den största effterkrigstida strukturreformen bakom sig och stora investmentsbehov i speciellt flottan och flygvapnet framför sig. Samtidigt rör de politiiska contininentalplattorna på sig på många håll i världen, ibland i fullständigt otipad riktning. Allt tycks påverka allt — också rai uppe i Norden. Därför är det viktigt att göra en ordentlig omvärdsanolys som bakgrund till de skäl som fortsättningsvis motiverar satsningar på ett trovärdigt försvar. Den auri redogörelse är en av tre sådana analyst som kommit på kort tid. Då räknar jag in regeringens Nato-bedömning, samt den utrikes- och säkerhetspolitiska redogörelsen som regeringen gav förra sommaren och som riksdagen — en märklig Britishsk folkomröstning och ett ännu märkligare amerkanskt presidentval klokare — respondsdebatterade före julen. Regeringen, stödd av den parliamentariska uppföljningsgruppen, förtjänar ett erkännande för klarspråk i sina bedömningar. Det finns naturligtvis i dagens läge ingen orsak att hymla då man exempelvis granskar Rysslands maktpolitik, annekteringen av Krim eller activiteterna i östra Ukraine. Dessvärre överdriver regeringen inte Heller då den i ingressen till redogörelsen constaterar att "Man måste bereda sig på att militära maktmedel eller hot om sådana kan komma att användas mot Finland". Det är trist, men tuvavar realpolitiskt nödvändigt att också en sådan mening måste formuleras år 2017 i det Europa och kring det Östersjöområde vi redan trodde hade blivet en symbol för bestående stabilitet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u13	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group largely agrees with the Government on Finland's defence policy. It is good that the defence is being developed on a long-term basis, taking into account the facts. The report highlights our country's changed security environment and increased threats, as well as the need for additional Defence Forces resources and major equipment procurements for the next decade. We are in favour of an increase in defence appropriations as proposed. However, the financing of large-scale equipment purchases will lead to tight state budgets and perhaps to a breach of the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact in the next few decades. That is why the procurement process must be thoroughly considered. Many things have changed since the previous government issued its security and defence policy reports in December 2012. Russian military action in Ukraine and the illegal invasion of Crimea and the subsequent tightening up of the West-Russia relationship have had a major impact on our country's security environment. The foreign policy of the new US administration is still obscured. Finland must prepare itself for the worst crises but at the same time act constructively as part of the international community in order to resolve the crises peacefully and alleviate tensions. Our parliamentary group agrees with the central objective of Finland's foreign and security policy to avoid military conflict. Mr President! External and internal security are increasingly interlinked. The report highlights the importance of cooperation between the various authorities. Combating the use of various cyber means and preparing for hybrid threats requires extensive cooperation between different security authorities and the Defence Forces. A small country cannot afford to waste resources. Our society is vulnerable in many respects, and new threats must be prepared in the whole public administration. The external and internal security interface is dissolved. The Border Guard has an important role to play both in combating hybrid threats and in ensuring territorial integrity. Its resources must therefore also be safeguarded. Active reserve operations help maintain the readiness to protect many of the infrastructure nodes that could be seriously disrupted by, for example, damage to electricity, heat or data transmission. Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group agrees with the report's views on international cooperation. Deeper cooperation with Sweden is natural and desirable, as is cooperation with other Nordic countries, NATO and EU countries. The European Union solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause strengthen the Union as a security community, but defence cooperation and security guarantees are two different issues. Finland’s public authorities and private companies are the target of a wide range of espionage. We urgently need much better military and civilian intelligence and control capabilities. We are pressing for changes to the intelligence legislation so that the new opportunities it offers can be made available already during this parliamentary term. Military intelligence is complemented by cooperation with other EU Member States. Mr President! Securing Finland’s independence, territorial integrity and democratic social order are the first and most important responsibilities of the state. Security is the core task of every country. Our defence forces must be maintained and improved. At the same time, we would like to remind you of the importance of security of supply, protection of the population, cybersecurity, general crisis preparedness and national unity in ensuring the security of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u14	It's about to start a debatable phase. However, it is preceded first by the first three minutes of Mr Niinistö's reply or comment, and then I will also give the Prime Minister the floor, and apparently also the Foreign Minister, and then move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u15	Mr President! Thank you for the contributions that have been made to all the parliamentary groups. There were, of course, minor differences in tone, that defence was still our common concern. I know, for example, that Mr Mustajärvi was a very pro-defence man, if his group, the left-wing parliamentary group in particular, had slightly different views on the development of defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u20	I shall now give the Prime Minister five minutes and then give the Foreign Minister and the Finance Minister both three minutes' speeches and then move on to the debate. The first round of Debra’s group will take place with two-minute responses.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u21	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, happy Women's Day! We outlined in the Government Programme that the Government will prepare both a foreign and security policy report and a defence statement. We agreed that the preparation of the Foreign and Security Policy Report would be accompanied by an assessment of the potential impact of NATO membership on Finland. These three documents have now been drawn up. This package provides an excellent basis for our policies and reflections on Finland's foreign, security and defence policy. We have now prepared a statement of defence for the referral debate in the same spirit, which was also the guiding principle of the Government Programme and the Foreign and Security Policy Report. We made a text that is concise and strategic and takes time. The Foreign and Security Policy Report and the Defence Report are in many ways sister reports. They were prepared for very good coordination and were based on a joint analysis of the operating environment. At the heart of it was the statement that the strong change in our foreign and security policy environment will continue and that change will not only be rapid but also partly unforeseeable. In view of our changing operating environment, it is of paramount importance for Finland’s security that we constantly take care of credible defence capabilities and continue to develop them in order to meet new types of challenges. We do this both nationally and with key partners. One of the key messages of the Defence Statement is that Finland strengthens its national defence capabilities by means of the Government’s guidelines and at the same time strengthens its international defence cooperation. Mr President! Our international partnerships play a special role in cooperation with Sweden. This cooperation has made excellent progress. We have recorded in both the foreign and security policy and the defence statement that cooperation will be developed without pre-conditions. We will move at a pace and in directions that both Finland and Sweden find useful. An ambitious development of the European Union's common security and defence policy is also very important for Finland. New opportunities have now been opened up and should be taken advantage of. It is possible to develop EU capabilities, such as permanent structural cooperation, without creating overlaps with NATO, for example. At the same time, it is interesting to see how the appeal from across the Atlantic to increase defence spending in NATO countries affects Europe. Possible increases in national defence spending may also lead to joint EU projects. Mr President! The main concrete issue of the defence statement was the acquisition of large material by the Defence Forces in the years to come, i.e. the acquisition of Navy vessels and the acquisition of the Air Force destroyer. They will extend over a number of parliamentary periods. That is why I have had discussions on procurement with the chairmen of all the parliamentary parties, last night. As a common line, it should be noted that everyone believes that defence capabilities require procurement, but that their funding must not be placed in conflict with benefits or services. For these good debates, I would like to express my best thanks to my fellow Presidents. The implementation of strategic performance projects is essential for Finland’s credible defence capability. However, it is important that they are not done at the expense of the rest of society's well-being. Detailed financing decisions will be taken in due course as part of the preparation of budgetary plans and budgets. Of course, the content of the fighter acquisitions will not be decided until the time comes. I thank the Minister for Defence for his diligent preparation. Both reports have also played an important role in the preparation process of the parliamentary monitoring group, whose active and strong contribution I would like to express my thanks for. In the preparation of the reports, we considered it important that the opinions of the Monitoring Group were heard and that its views were also taken into account. Foreign and Security Policy is a matter of national interest. Mr President! In the context of the feedback debate on the Foreign and Security Policy Report last December, I promised to present a communication on changes in the foreign and security policy environment during the spring session 2017. A good time for this communication could be May.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u22	Mr President! This defence report has been produced in good cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, for my part, I would like to express my thanks to the work of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group. The Parliamentary Monitoring Group has done good work both in the context of the Foreign and Security Policy Report and also in the context of this Defence Report. I would also like to thank Minister Niinistö for his excellent work. This seems to have been overlooked by the Group of the SDP, but I am sure that I will correct it now, and no one will be offended. [Laughter] Despite the tightening of the international situation, Finland is not facing an immediate military threat. However, military use or threat of force cannot be ruled out, and this requires Finland to be vigilant in identifying changes, a coherent foreign and security policy and the development of large-scale networks. Involvement in military crisis management will continue to be important. We will soon be increasing our participation in UNIFIL in response to France's request on the basis of the Lisbon aid clause. The second larger operation participation is in Erbil, Iraq, and it continues. We are also involved in the change in crisis management, such as action to build education and capacity is increasingly important today. Finland is also a provider of security in UN operations and other international operations to which we are jointly committed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u23	Mr President! I would also like to thank Minister Niinistö, the members of the Government, but also the parliamentary group and committees who have worked hard on this. Unfortunately, this is the time for a foreign and security policy report and for a life of defence because the world has gone in a bad direction. We will have to assess our environment and see that the safety environment has deteriorated and we will have to adopt policies. The message we send to the world with this report is that Finland takes care of its own defence. This is an important message, and that is why we must ensure that our defence capabilities, both the Earth, the Sea and the Air Force, are up to date. This is why these large projects and additional resources for the maintenance of preparedness are essential in this situation. Another key issue, in addition to our own credible defence capability, is our active international cooperation. Peace, stability, of course, is maintained within the UN and other organisations, but in the field of defence policy we also need to work well with the USA, Sweden, Britain and other partners, as well as close, close cooperation with NATO. The third important, and which has recently been welcomed, is defence cooperation under the flag of the European Union. I believe that Finland should be involved in all the projects that are being undertaken under the flag of the European Union to improve the common defence capability. It is definitely in Finland's interest. I believe that, at the time, behind the decision to join the European Union, much of the Finns had security and strengthened it in Finland. Mr President! From the point of view of the Minister of Finance, we will be making decisions based on this defence statement in a mid-term debate on a public finance plan, and we will have to look at what the Ministry of Defence's vision is for as long as 55 million from next year. Similarly, the funding of the parliamentary group, the so-called Kanerva Group, will reach a level of 150 million in 20. We need to be able to make decisions about the continuation of this money. In addition to that, the first money for 19 fleet renewals has already been set aside, but for the last year of the spending limits period to be carried out, we must also reserve the first money for Hornet replacements. We have a difficult situation, but in the '90s Finland was able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u24	And now we're going to the debut. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button. The first round of speakers will take place just now between those who have spoken in the group, and it may take up to two minutes to speak in this round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u25	Mr President! Juha Sipilä's Government has taken seriously the changes in this security policy environment, and in this parliamentary term resources have been increased for domestic defence. The number of refresher exercises has been increased, vessel days and off-road days have been increased and equipment purchases have also been made. This is an excellent thing. But the government is preparing, as is the case with the whole Parliament, for these future major acquisitions, and in fact I would like to thank you for the positive tone in the group speeches on these procurements. However, I would also like to encourage us to send out a strong signal that we are all behind these procurements in that we want to replace both fleet acquisitions and the replacement of Hornets' successors in the most appropriate way. On this point to the Left Alliance, I would like to say that we cannot compare our other basic services with our Defence Forces. Without credible defence, without the assurance that defence gives us as an extension of our foreign policy, we would not need anything else in this country in the worst event. Unfortunately, that is the case. Minister Niinistö, I would like to thank you for your good preparation for this report. It is good that we are now investing in local forces, that we are now investing in the maintenance of preparedness and that our preparedness legislation will also be developed. In this context, I would like to ask about these investments, the investments in euros: what will still be invested in this parliamentary term, the fact that we are standing by in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u26	Mr President! This gives women's Day a good opportunity to discuss women's participation in national defence missions. The will of women to defend the country has recently been reduced, and ways to strengthen women's desire for defence and their participation in defence activities are needed. One of the ways in which this is being done would be to send an invitation letter to all women of invited age. This could increase women's experience of involvement and interest in national defence. In our neighbouring Sweden, a partial military service for both sexes was reinstated last week. At the moment, we in Finland do not need to introduce military service for both sexes. In the opinion of the Finns Party, a good way to increase defence awareness would be to integrate the education of our defence system into secondary education, for example. This would also provide young people who do not participate in the military service with sufficient information about the defence system and a knowledge base that would support decision-making on participation in military training. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: what means do you see to strengthen the will and readiness of young people, especially women, to defend the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u27	Mr President! Under no circumstances must Finland be a transit country, and it is extremely important that we, in various forms, be able to give the rest of the world a clear signal that we ourselves are concerned about our own integrity, our sovereignty. That is a fundamental value for us. In order to do this, the measures set out in the defence statement are absolutely necessary, supported and supported. This is an important policy for Finland. When we want to give a signal to our immediate environment and the rest of the world that Finland fulfils its obligations not only towards itself but also internationally, I also think it is good to understand the nature of this issue in the light that Finland is telling us about its own defence solution and how much we are prepared to sacrifice our defence money, our national resources, with this calculation of the GDP share. In the light of the current method of calculation, I find it problematic that we give a false, false and underestimating picture of how much Finland is prepared to invest in its defence: 1.2% in official statistics. That is not true, because, unlike other countries in the world, we do not include items of costs which, by including our GDP share, would be significantly higher — it would be close to 2%. In addition to taking into account these other material purchases that are taken into account in the calculation, we will come lightly to the level that is considered to be the level in Western countries that all self - respecting countries do so. It is a question of a change in the method of calculation and a signal [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u28	Mr President! Right at the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank Minister of Defence Niinistö and Prime Minister Sipilä for the cooperation we have had in the monitoring group and now we will continue our work in committee. Finland is a small country, and one of the great features of this small country is parliamentaryism, especially in foreign and security policy. It's been a long line for us since the last war. This consensus has been sought and unanimity has been the great advantage of this small nation, a small country and, you can say, of the whole of the Nordic region. It was wonderful to hear in opening speeches that general military service enjoys broad acceptance in Finland. No one in this Chamber has proposed a waiver of general military duty. This is what happened in Sweden when the bourgeois parties of that time were in the majority and when the Social Democrats voted in favour of general military service but unfortunately lost. We hope that Sweden will return to this path now in the direction of universal military service more strongly at the moment, taking the first steps, of course. In this context, I will ask Prime Minister Sipilä about this credible defence. In his own speech, Minister of Defence Niinistö raised the increase in the wartime forces, the increase of 50,000 people, as a strong contribution to the defence of the country, using the expression 'the increase of the warring forces'. I have in my hand an interview with Swedish TV, in which the President of the Republic, the Commander-in-Chief, said that Finland does not increase the troops of the war, but rather a change in the method of calculation. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, which one? Is that what we have to believe in?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u29	Mr President! As this debate has shown, there is a very broad consensus both on foreign and security policy and on defence policy in this House, and that is a good thing, because a small country should have a common line on these issues. Of course there were some differences in tone, but overall we have a very common view. This defence report has outlined a wide range of forms of international cooperation that we have. We have a lot of bilateral agreements and we have different forms of cooperation with several countries. But for the first time, Sweden was brought out very strongly. That is the new line of this report. Sweden made a strong point in a number of group speeches. Sweden itself has also expressed its willingness to go through all the possibilities of cooperation with Finland in depth. Unfortunately, in this report, the government has not stated what it is prepared to do and how to proceed in this cooperation, except in general, that it is active. I would like to ask: what concrete plans does the Government have for closer cooperation with Sweden and with what timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u30	Mr President! Minister of Defence Niinistö, you have described me in the past as being nationalist and NATO-fearing, and I have hardly ever been so praised in one sentence. [Laughter] But for Mr Savola: We have no money other than common property, income from it, debt money or other tax revenue. All expenditure in the state budget is financed by these, whether it be social and health expenditure or defence expenditure. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u31	Värderade Talman! Jag tycker att det ännu finns orsak att berömma tonfallet och realismen i det ox documents. Omvärdsanalysen är gjord på ett mycket mångsidigt stätt och man använder klarspråk, vilket naturligtvis är viktigt i dagens lage. Ändå är jag lite förbryllad över det sätt på vilket man ändå lyckas låta påskina att den krigstida styrkans volym ökar från 230000 till 280000. Det kunns lite som att man så att säga skulle blåsa upp ett befintligt saktillstånd med varm luft utan att de facto göra hemskt mycket förändringar i själva substansen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u32	Mr President! The report states that Russia is investing in unmanned aircraft and robotics in its material development. The use of robots controlled by artificial intelligence, whether on land, in air or in water, has increased in future military conflicts. The total funding for defence technology research and development activities should be increased. It is unfortunate that the government targeted its cuts specifically at VTT Technology Research Centre and Tekes for EUR 140 million, which will help to reduce these opportunities for development. It is necessary to be active in this development work and also in the European Union in the field of defence technology research cooperation and joint procurement. Well, the second thing that is mentioned here in these Russian development targets relates to digital intelligence and management systems. Indeed, at the moment, our legislation on military and civilian intelligence is inadequate, lagging behind the other Nordic countries and compared to all our neighbouring countries. In this respect, I appeal to all the parliamentary parties to join forces in correcting this in this parliamentary term. Intelligence laws would be able to ensure that the state and the Defence Forces have the best possible knowledge base in the decision-making process related to military threats. At the same time, we would have the opportunity to deal with cyber attacks from outside and to safeguard our early warning capabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u33	We will continue with the answers now for one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u34	Mr President! Finland’s security has three foundations: A foreign policy that keeps us out of conflict acts to prevent conflicts and ensures that Finland's territory is not used for hostile purposes. The second is this sufficient defence capability, which is specifically addressed here. It's necessary. And the third is that Finland is a society in which there are no divisions based on inequality or otherwise that can be exploited from outside. The significance of this cannot be overestimated. It is therefore important that there are no dividing lines in this report either. We had excellent cooperation on the foreign and security policy report, and if it is in the same spirit as the monitoring group's work on this report, I believe that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u35	Mr President! I would like to thank Prime Minister Sipilä for creating a little of this international perspective through cooperation with Sweden and EU cooperation. I think that any threat to Finland is also a threat to the Nordic countries, it is also a threat to the European Union, and in all such threats cooperation is very important. Now we have made practical progress with Sweden, I think very well and quite far, but of course the question arises as to whether there should be agreement-based cooperation, then, in times of crisis, even in extreme circumstances during the war, we would know that it would work with Sweden. With the European Union we have, as it were, a contractual basis, the Treaty of Lisbon, but not this practical way forward again, and there these opportunities for structured cooperation should be fully exploited. And especially when it is obvious that Germany will increase the defence budget, we should consider what new could be gained from it for EU activities. I believe that these perspectives should be kept in this sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u36	Mr President! This debate shows a broad consensus on the future of defence policy. Of course, there are nuances, but it's supposed to be. Many have stressed the importance of parliamentary preparation, including the work of the monitoring group. After all, the Monitoring Group started its work at the beginning of 2016. With a view to the future, I refer to two points. It might be good that all reports on security at the same time should be based on a common security environment analysis — especially when foreign and security policy is so seamlessly linked, and also in an unpredictable way, as has been said here. Secondly, it might be a good idea for all reports to be followed up by the same parliamentary monitoring group. The results are better the more transparent they are, as trust between the Monitoring Group and the Government is quite a and o.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u37	Mr President! In recent times, more and more attention has been paid to the fact that there is false propaganda and an effort to influence, among other things, the elections of nations and many important activities. I ask the ministers: is Finland up enough on these issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u38	Mr President! There has been some discussion here about the strength of the wartime forces and the change in the method of calculating them, and many have been asked whether this was a question of party politics rather than of defence policy in order to increase the number of troops that Minister Niinistö had so much to evoke. In the name of party politics, we want bigger figures than what defence policy actually looks like. Mr President! It has been said here that there are mainly differences in tone — there were also some differences in euro. If, for example, we look at this acquisition of destroyers, we talk about about 15 to 20 per cent of our annual budget and, of course, over the cost of life. And we must think now that we must have a strong defence force, but we must also have a country to defend, and that means that we must now critically assess such large purchases, because we must take care of the welfare state. Why do we need the Defence Forces if we do not have a welfare state to defend after the cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u39	Mr President! The need for an increase in defence expenditure cannot be due to a poorly managed foreign and security policy for Finland, although the Greens' group statement implied little. Europe is investing more and more in national defence by country. It cannot be because of Finland's foreign and security policy. On the contrary, we have a very skilful and diplomatic leadership in foreign and security policy, which is extremely important for a small country, as is the fact that this government, led by the Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö, has taken swift action to update and further develop our defence capabilities. I would like to thank the previous speeches, which gave us a unified understanding that the defence capability of an independent 100-year-old Finland must be credible — just like the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, concisely — that we are prepared to never go to war. I would also like to raise the important issue of Mr Haavisto that we have our defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u40	Mr President! The primary task of defence policy is to ensure peace, and the best way to do this is to ensure good management of foreign policy. That is why our group statement has already referred to the idea that perhaps we should go back to the model in which the foreign and security policy report and the defence policy report would be one. This would give us a unified picture of where to start and, at the same time, also reflect this foreign policy situation on different aspects of defence. Here the line should be "more influence, less preparation". I hope that, now that the committee has started its deliberations, the British situation will be assessed, in particular, which, through Brexit, is quite different from that when this analysis was carried out, the impressive situation in the United States for the whole of Europe and cooperation with the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u41	Värderade Talman! I centers gruppanförande riktades det skarp critik mot försvarsreformen och de garnisoner som stängdes. Nu antar jag att det betyder att center öppna dem igen, och då frågar jag i så fall om det också är hela regeringens syn. Och varifrån ska man då i så fall hitta de 120 milioner som har inbesparats genom manövern?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u42	Mr President! As for the abolition of the garrison during the past parliamentary term, it was a hard piece. Where it is especially visible, it is also evident in matters related to the will to defend the country. Fortunately, this government has now corrected this issue and has been able to do more re-examination exercises, and it has invested in these fundamental issues in the defence of the country so that we can move forward on this issue. This issue of appropriations here is somewhat addressed, more so in the speeches of the left. We should, however, now create the uniform line on the issue of bringing out the signal that these big acquisitions we want to carry out. They are huge purchases and they are large in euros. I should like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä when you have negotiated this and taken forward with the chairmen of the parliamentary parties: How this periodicity in the coming years of these major procurements
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u43	Mr President! What we want to defend is a Finnish society, and I see that democracy, freedom of speech, incorruptibility, acceptable, rational distribution of income, these are the things for which it is worth working. The defence power reform was carried out during the last parliamentary term, and the military was the administrative sector that did what had to be done without murmuring. The acquisition of defence materials was delayed, cutbacks had to be made. I ask Minister Niinistö: will the Earthforce's ability now be achieved with this reduction and with this money, what is proposed here, to the level that it is good? Now the report says that it is satisfactory. There has been talk of cannibalisation of stocks, for example. There may be some stuff in the warehouse on paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u44	Mr President! At the end of the Cold War, there was talk of the dividends of peace when the threat of hot war passed over Europe. Unfortunately, the occupation of Crimea and the war in Ukraine have shown that the weather was temporary, and it is also visible around Finland. Modern weapons systems are state-of-the-art technology and the price is in line with it. The price tag for the renewal of land, air and navy equipment is huge. In addition, a new type of weapon should be established to defend the cyber front. Even in 2004, I wondered why the report did not even mention cyber defence, but now it is getting the attention it deserves. A technologically advanced country such as Finland is easy to disable with cyber weapons without firing a shot. These weapons have already been tested in Ukraine. In the future, vulnerability will only get worse. But unfortunately, unlike these other arms, no price tag has yet been issued for the development of cyber defence. The construction of cyber defense is not free either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u45	Mr President! Representative Judgments spoke of the three feet of defence and Finland horse, and here I have a fourth base leg to offer to the horse. Concrete equipment is necessary, but it alone does not work without a moral backbone. We cannot forget the fact that, without God’s miracles, Finland would not be in the turmoil of World War II. In wartime, there was no room or reason to push God out of society and there is no reason to do so now, and in that sense I would like to point out that a country as small as Finland should not forget its Christian roots and remember where that security comes from when it is sometimes a tight spot to come. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u46	At this stage in the debate, I would like to give answers to the representatives of Mr Uotila, Mr Henriksson, Mr Lindtman, Mr Östman, Mr Pakkanen and Mr Kopra, and then to the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u47	Mr President! In the longer term, Minister Orpo did not address these economic impacts. When this comes to the Committee on Finance for an opinion, I hope that the Committee on Finance will also deal with it. As proposed, these 1.2 billion, between 7 billion and 10 billion will cause an annual increase of at least 1 billion in the need for cutting or adjusting or then of 3-4 % in permanent indebtedness. This place is serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u48	Värderade Talman! Så rai på internationalella kvinnodageen kan vi konstatera det, att skulle man ha fler kvinnor med vid broden när man löser conflicter i världen, så skulle vi behöva mindre resorter — i alla världens lännder — till krigsmatterel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u49	Mr President! I must join in the thanks that have been expressed here. A consensus on such an important line is extremely valuable, and good cooperation across parliamentary borders in the field of defence policy is important because, as Mr Kari said, it is a marathon sport. Active foreign policy, active international cooperation and the aim of our stability policy in the Baltic Sea region are important alongside credible defence. Mr President! The opportunity for closer cooperation with Sweden would now be opportune. The SDP is ready for closer cooperation with Sweden, and perhaps what we still need is a more visionary approach. When our country's security policy and foreign policy objectives in trying to stabilise the situation in the Baltic Sea are common, perhaps we could have needed a more visionary approach to the use of resources in this cooperation between Finland and Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u50	Mr President! Independent and strong defence is a good thing, and cooperating with other countries is also a good thing. But even though mutual assistance between EU countries is enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, it should be remembered that the EU is not a defence alliance and has no similar potential to respond to a military attack, such as a military alliance with NATO. Finland has longed for a common EU defence as a non-NATO country. I do not believe that the EU is establishing a common army. Instead, it will coordinate national defence plans and will increase cooperation, including in the field of arms procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u51	Mr President! I would also like to thank Minister Niinistö and the parliamentary group for their good report and preparation. There has been a good debate here on the acquisition of materials, their importance and their financing. They are purchases of the future, and that is something that Parliament and future parliaments must commit to. What has not been raised here yet, but which I would like to raise, is what is currently the situation with the Defence Forces staff. After the Defence Power Reform, we have about 12,000 regular military recruits. What is their situation when they are assigned to international missions? Is the hiring business in order? Is the armaments business in order? I would like to hear an answer from Minister Niinistö on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u52	Mr President! It is gratifying to see that the whole Parliament is blowing together here today. The safety of Finns and Finland is a concern. This is a good conversation. Much has been said about money here, but defence and security can also be influenced by other means. Representative Mrs Räsänen raised this development of intelligence legislation, and I share her concern and belief that it would be great to have new legislation in force already during this period. I would like to ask: what is going on here? Secondly, when we consider how the mechanism for creating the crisis has changed during this period, it may be that the crisis is coming quickly, unexpectedly, and it is not necessarily known what it is about, and it is perhaps unclear whether it belongs to the police, to the Border Guard or to the Defence Forces. I therefore ask whether the division of labour between these authorities has been sufficiently carefully considered in such a way that there are so-called overlaps that there will be no such incompatibility pits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u53	At this stage, ministers will respond. I would like to say that there are many more replies to this. Next, after the ministers, representatives Andersson, Heinonen, Essayah, and so forth. Now three minutes should be enough at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u54	Mr President! I will try my best to answer as many questions as possible. Representative Savola asked about investing in preparedness during this parliamentary term. We are constantly reviewing our legislation. There have not been so many legal projects in the Ministry of Defence in the memory of men. Since the beginning of this year, preparedness units have been set up in the Army, and an additional EUR 55 million will be provided for preparedness next year. Mr Immonen asked about raising awareness of women’s defence — an appropriate question on women’s day. Of course, this is about getting young women to know that they have the opportunity to carry out voluntary military service. In the future, consideration may be given to involving women in invitations, and why not also in secondary education. It is useful to us that women attend the military service. Among other things, they provide us with good material for international crisis management tasks. Mr Kanerva asked about the method of calculating the GDP share of defence. I cannot say how the current method of calculation has been achieved, but it is worth clarifying in order to make international comparison more realistic. However, for the sake of comparability, the own basis for calculation should be maintained. At present, defence accounts for about 1.3% of GDP, but when border guard, crisis management expenditure, military pensions, conscript social costs, all of these are included, then 1.6 or 1.7 per cent will be achieved. Mr Mikkonen and Mr Lindtman drew attention to cooperation with Sweden. Indeed, in line with the report, we are actively cooperating with Sweden, and this good practical cooperation, training through the Air Force and the Navy, has now spread to the Army. This is how we build compatibility, how we build trust and how we act in peacetime, and if the crisis comes — which I hope will never happen — hopefully we can work together if the political decision-makers in both Finland and Sweden decide to do so. Mr Henriksson asked about Norway in this regard. We have good cooperation with Norway within the Nordefco framework, we have security of supply cooperation, Norway also participates in these Cross Border Training exercises in the north with its air force, and this exercise should be continued and developed. Representatives Wall and Arhinmäki drew attention to the method of calculating the wartime forces. I have already commented on it in my previous speech, but it must always be noted that the mobilisation is not always complete. It does not always have to be perfect, for the whole army should not be trampled together for every break but always as necessary. In any case, the number of troops in the war is increasing, and that is a fact. It's not a matter of opinion. Mr Kääriäinen and Mr Paatero asked whether the report process was meaningful, whether it would continue to do so or not. That is, of course, a matter for the next government and the next government negotiations, and now is a good time for Parliament to reflect on future practices. Mr Adlercreutz asked about military service or, in fact, about exclusion, and I answer that military service is a means of combating exclusion. It offers experiences of success. Moreover, for immigrants, military service is the best integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u55	Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a very united debate. A few questions were addressed to me. Mr Kanerva, the Minister of Defence has already responded well to this: 1.3 is in our way of calculating. I think it would be sensible to go down to the calculation method which is used by others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u59	And the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u60	Mr President! We in the Left Alliance are quite rightly very concerned about the very high price of these fighters. Even if we decide to raise the budgetary framework in Finland in line with this debt figure, the problem is, however, these EU fiscal rules and how they behave in Finland. In other words, if the debt taken into account by the destroyers at EU level is included in the total debt burden of Finland and if, from an economic point of view, in Finland as well as elsewhere in the EU, we will continue to insist on these very weakly justified fiscal rules, then it will create the pressure to cut back on other necessary expenditure or other necessary investments. We in the Left Alliance see that if debt is taken, it would be better to use it for employment projects, housing construction, home improvement. There is now a risk that this will narrow ours down.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u61	Mr President! The defence statement is a good complement to the Foreign and Security Policy Report, the Internal Security Report and the whole of that independent NATO assessment, and it is good that these issues have now been addressed on a broad front, with several different measures. I would like to join in the thanks given to the management of foreign policy and security policy. To Niinis and Secretary of State Soin. But the will to defend the country has fallen. Has this been gutted or discussed in the Ministry, Mr Niinistö, which may have seemed to me that the country might not be prepared to defend it as vigorously as it has been in the past? Could it be that the threat has come closer in a certain way, or perhaps that not everyone would feel worthy of defending this country? Of course, it's a bigger concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u62	Mr President! I would like, for my part, to thank Mrs Kääriäinen for her good chairing in this monitoring group to which I have been a member. In his own management style, he has been able to tie both the foreign and security policy and the defence policy report together, even though work has been done in this area for over a year. Mr President! My question concerns the cyber environment. This report takes into account overall safety and cybersecurity as well, but despite the fact that we do not really have the answers to the way in which we are currently prepared for various cyber threats and how we are able to protect our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u63	Mr President! This is a good place to go. I too am absolutely interested in these cyber threats, hybrid threats and illegal intelligence, and of course these must be answered effectively. This is definitely not the case. Military and civilian intelligence legislation must and must be updated, and without delay. I do appeal to all the parliamentary parties to complete this legislation this period as well. The establishment of a European hybrid competence centre in Finland will significantly improve the preparedness for hybrid threats and will of course develop cooperation between the EU and NATO in the preparation of hybrid threats. This centre has attracted great interest, and it is great that it has been brought to Finland. But my question is very similar to that of Mr Essayah: what other measures is the government prepared to take in order to better prepare and influence hybrid threats and cyber threats in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u64	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Niinistö for his commendable work on defence. However, I am concerned about the major Defence Forces performance projects ahead of us, such as the Navy Fleet 2020 project and the Air Force HX project. Has the time passed on these projects before the first ship or machine has even been ordered? The range, accuracy and destructive force of modern weapons systems have changed the nature of the war that may start with a surprise attack. These advanced weapons systems at our borders can be mentioned at least by the Russian Iskander-M ballistic artillery missile, the Kalibr cruise missile, the P400 Bastion anti-sea missile and the S400 anti-aircraft missile. These weapons systems range from 300 km of P400 to 2500 km of Calibrin. What are we going to do to prevent our more than 10,000 million-dollar weapons systems from being destroyed by airports and ports even before the war has even been declared? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not happy to come on top of the speaker with my own speech, but when the speech goes well beyond the agreed limit, I will put the club on the table quite firmly. I hope you don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u66	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Defence, I drew attention to the fact that page 12 of the report states that the capability of the army to fulfil its mission is currently satisfactory. As a number, this would only be seven, and I would like the Minister to explain this. It was only a few months ago that the Defence Committee received the final report from the Chief Staff on the reform of the Defence Forces, which states that the implementation of the reform had been successful and made it possible to restore the level of activity and to achieve the targets set in 2012. What, in the Minister's view, makes the ground forces only satisfactory and does the ground forces themselves feel this way? And what are you going to do to make it a good level?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u67	Mr President! The time span of the report extends to the mid-2020s. This report highlights strategic performance procurements, Fleet 2020 and the replacement of multi-functional fighters by the HX project. Their scope in terms of budget is always moving forward until 2031. There are not so many questions, but I would stress this importance of industrial cooperation, because it is very important for these procurements. The arrangements for industrial cooperation must be available for defence procurement that is essential for defence and security. Industrial cooperation acquires very important expertise and experience in the maintenance phases and also in the continuum that these are valid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u68	Mr President! It is important that in this Chamber there is a very strong unity of defence in Finland. Homeland security is what unites us. I also welcomed the Prime Minister's statement of Finland's commitment to the development of a common EU defence policy. It is important that we are strongly involved in all these cores. Thirdly, I myself am concerned about cybersecurity, what many Members have asked about in a good way. After all, a cyber centre has been established in the CID a couple of years ago with a lot of expertise and expertise. So I ask the Minister of Defence: will the Defence Forces cooperate with this cyber centre of the CID?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u69	Mr President! It has been flashed that there is some sort of inconsistency between the foreign policy picture and the defence statement. The fact is, however, that the defence report relies precisely on the analysis of the foreign and security policy report and on the change in our security environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u70	Mr President! This economic aspect has also been strongly brought here, especially on the part of the Left Alliance. I would now like to remind you of one important point: to study what is the law on the Defence Forces — the tasks of the Defence Forces. There are three large entities: the military defence of Finland and the care of its integrity, support for other authorities, participation in crisis management. Support for other authorities: If we do not have proper Defence Forces and funds, then there will be a non-military crisis — there will be nothing to support other authorities. As an example of major water crises, transformer problems or other things that can come about: things that we do not even know what could happen today, where we need a very wide range of defence equipment. I hope that the Left will also familiarise itself with this law on the defence force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u71	Mr President! I will continue with the previous speech: The internal security of our country is as important as external security, internal and external security are intertwined. The Defence Forces have stored material for wartime needs that no one would ever hope to use. Instead, in their daily operations, the police are forced to protect themselves against various threats, even firearms. The police have a need for some material similar to that of the Defence Forces. For example, an armored crew carrier, Pasi, is a very useful tool if the police are forced to work under the influence of an armed threat. Mr President! I ask the Minister of Defence: is it possible to transfer some armored vehicles to the police so that they are in police storage and so the police could practice using vehicles with, for example, police dogs?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u72	Mr President! Mr Vikman was quite right to say that the assessment of the situation of this defence policy report is the same as that of the foreign and security policy report. But in the meantime there was a parliamentary debate, and Parliament in the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously changed this picture of the situation. And what is amazing is that the government has not taken note of what has been widely assessed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Parliament, but has rewritten the picture of the situation in the previous report that has been amended. Question two. Mr Hakaselle, who said that the Defence Forces were needed for many tasks: This is the case, among other things, to deal with water crises — but it is hardly the problem of water crisis that the fighters are dealing with. And there's been a conversation about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u73	Mr President! Defence cooperation with Sweden improves the security of the Baltic Sea and strengthens the defence of both countries. But when you look at the map, where has this Nordic defence cooperation gone? After all, Norway and Denmark are NATO countries, and geographically this would constitute a fairly coherent and good area, and if we look at the wealth values of these countries, they are also fairly similar. Is there some obstacle to this, or why this lack of concreteness? Of course, there is material procurement cooperation, but at least it would like this Nordic cooperation to become more visible in defence policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u74	Mr President! As a member of this follow-up group and member of the Committee on Defence, it is also a pleasure to note from today's debate that defence is a matter for the people as a whole. However, studies show that Finns, and especially women of them, feel that their safety skills are inadequate in times of crisis. Since, according to the law, everyone has an obligation to defend the country, it is contradictory that the state currently does not provide defence education for the entire age group. Although I am a reserve officer myself, I am not in favour of compulsory military service for women. There is no need for more troops in the war and for more troops in the war. However, some have suggested extending the invitations to women. However, mere invitations do not increase preparedness. Nor should we market a product that cannot be sold; for example, we cannot take more women into the garrison at the moment. Above all, general safety skills should be offered to young people already as part of school education and crisis training for women with voluntary defence organisations. As we know, there is still much more demand than supply. How will this lack of resources be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u75	Mr President! I would like to correct the misunderstanding that had arisen for Mrs Ruoho when I said in our group speech that increasing the defence budget is always a bad thing and that it is partly about the failure of foreign policy. I did not refer to this foreign policy that Finland is now making, but I referred to this international situation, which is increasingly tense and which has caused many countries to invest more in defence, and there is also an increase in arms race of this kind, and there are no winners in that competition. That is why, even in these times, it is extremely important that we are promoting international disarmament and that we are active at the tables where discussions are taking place, for example, with a view to establishing a binding treaty banning nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u76	Mr President! Despite global warming, the world is full of frozen conflicts, and it is therefore essential that national defence issues are awake. The report highlights that the will to defend the country and general military service are fundamentals. Let me ask the Minister for Defence: is my concern real and justified when I fear that the re-examination exercises will be compromised in the future? I see it as extremely important that refresher exercises can be carried out sufficiently, and also that financial and other resources are secured for the fourth defence branch, namely voluntary defence work and defence training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u77	Mr President! When I asked the Prime Minister which one he trusts in this aspect of increasing the wartime forces, the commander-in-chief, the President of the Republic or the Minister of Defence, I understand that it was difficult to give the Prime Minister an answer. I did not need a reading lesson from this defence policy report, I have read it in advance and backwards, and I know where these arguments can be found. But I would have asked and I would still ask the Prime Minister, who is no longer in the Chamber, which in this truth is now a fact. I do not want to be squishy, but I would like to ask genuinely — in connection with this voluntary defence funding, which is also part of this additional training of local and regional forces and so on — what is the added value? It must not be political, as has been said here on the part of the various groups, as if party political added value, but must be security added value. I'll take the last second: Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u78	Mr President! Since the threat images have changed and become more diverse, neither the report nor this debate have been confined to the traditional defence debate. I consider the report's guidelines to be good, but I would ask the Minister whether the cyber threats of the future have been taken into account with the necessary weight from the point of view of capabilities and also of resources. Is it certain that cyber defense will not be left behind by the billions of more traditional procurements and the preparation for more traditional threats? Mr President! I welcome the report's orientation on better consideration and use of the reserve and voluntary defence work in our country's overall defence. Finally, in order to maintain the will to defend the country, one of the most important phrases in the report is the phrase on page 27: 'The preconditions for voluntary defence will be ensured'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u79	Mr President! I belong to the generation that used to sing at the Kaivopuisto Farewell for the Arms Song so loud that it belonged all the way to Leningrad [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u80	Here I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Mäkipää, Häkkänen and Kulmuni, and then to the minister for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u81	Mr President! None of us want war, but we no longer live in a birdhouse, and, as has been said, the security environment has deteriorated in terms of the Crimea-Ukraine axis and then the further Middle East as it should be. Similarly, we must remember this cyber-threat, its importance has grown in various forms, how we are actually prepared for it and how we Finns will be able to demonstrate this resilience if a conflict comes, what it means to our country. One important thing in such a time of peace is to improve preparedness, which means training troops and developing material readiness and that these different laws are in order when they are needed and, as has been said here, this Code of Intelligence, that it is one important thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u82	Mr President! The world is becoming more and more complex and the security environment in Finland is becoming more complex, and it is therefore important that our security-related management in the world is carried out in the UN, the OSCE, the EU and foreign policy through the EU and in bilateral relations. But behind it all is the credible Defence Forces, the credible will to defend themselves and the ability to do so. In that sense, we must give the government a big thank-you — the centre, the Coalition Party, the Finns of Peru — that there is a clear signal out of this desire for defence. Well, I guess you could say the other one... The Greens' direction has become proposals on, among other things, the scrapping of military service. The left is now proposing to scrap the funding. Where do these come from?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u83	Mr President! Is it somehow unreasonable that, in this situation, at least one billion, perhaps 2 billion a year in the late 20s, will be needed to finance these strategic procurements, and if this adjustment is not made, the debt ratio will increase permanently by between 3 and 4%? I guess we should have the courage to talk about it, too. It is a strange thing that there is no concern about debt when it comes to these fighter acquisitions, but when the left proposes a slight improvement in the position of the weaker, in terms of improving basic security or even measures to improve employment, then it is horrified that we cannot afford to do this, we will eat bread from the mouth of future generations. The same euro, the same money is also involved in defence procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u84	Mr President! There is a clear difference between the left and perhaps the rest of this House in that, if we do not have stable public finances, it is not good for those who are disadvantaged, and if we do not have credible defences, then it is not good for the whole country at all. The best security of all is good diplomacy and credible defence. However, today’s security issues are very complex. With information technology, cybersecurity and digitalisation, they have become completely new perspectives and perspectives. Much has been said about the possibilities of cooperation with Sweden, but also about the EU's common defence and security policy. However, now that the EU is in a rather static state of water and is not quite sure what direction the Union is going to take, how likely does the government think that the EU's common security and defence policy will take a leap forward in the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u85	Minister, I have just a few comments to make. We'll take them all at the same time, and then you can answer them. Everyone gets their questions or comments put.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u86	Mr President! Indeed, the situation of women in military service and the Defence Forces has been raised here today. I myself have wondered about this age limit in the invitations. It is 18 to 29 years, and when you think about how to encourage and inspire women, at least I would think that that understanding and thinking and endurance and tolerance will only be strengthened with age, i.e. would it perhaps be a little uplifting in this upper age, that is, even a 30-year-old could get into this kind of military service as a woman or a country defence course, just as the next companion well said. I would like to highlight the well-being there in the Defence Forces and the suicides with the garrison. Between 90 and 15 a study was carried out that the second most common cause of death was suicide by young soldiers or conscripts. What do you think we're dealing with right now? I'd like to ask you,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u87	Mr President! Three reports have now been made on this overall security, all of which are bound by the fact that the threats to internal security and external security are largely the same. This, of course, means that the conditions for cooperation and cooperation between the safety authorities must be excellent and seamless. Well, on this basis, perhaps it is appropriate to ask: the Defence Forces have the capacity to respond to the challenges of internal security, and accordingly, do the internal security authorities have the capacity to support the Defence Forces if necessary? On the basis of these two questions, perhaps as a follow-up: how much coordination or legislative needs do we have to guarantee this overall security?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u88	Mr President! War is unpredictable and total. New technologies are also constantly being developed in the planning of both the attack and the defence war. In that respect, too, we need to monitor our time more closely. For example, the successful regional defence of local forces may well depend on the new technology available in human and mass material. I believe that the Minister of Defence's statement that the troops will be deployed accordingly must be completed as thoroughly as possible. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: are we in a good position here too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u89	Mr President! It is absolutely essential that, as mentioned in the report, Finland retains public military service, regional defence and credible defence in such a way that equipment, crew and all personnel are well trained, refresher exercises are held and the will to defend the country is very strong, as it is, and it is a pleasure to note, among young people too, that this is the case. But I also think that this intelligence legislation is involved. It is absolutely essential that we have a very well-functioning and modern intelligence law in this country so that we can be prepared for these future threats, such as cyber threats, in a very timely manner. And one thing to remember is that there must also be wisdom in foreign policy. The President of the Republic and the government of the whole country have wisely maintained good relations with all our neighbours. In time, Urho Kekkonen wisely stated that it is worth keeping friends as close as possible and enemies as far away as possible, and on this basis, I believe that this will be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u90	Mr President! The defence statement is a good document, and one of its feet is that we have almost complete consensus on the direction in which the Finnish defence should be taken. It is also very illustrative of the change that has taken place in the operating environment and the situation of our overall security with its cyber-days. That is an extremely important issue. Another point to note is that perhaps national defence is one of the most important cross-cutting approaches to all sectors of government and all other borders, and that is the way it should be. One thing about it is security of supply, which is very important from the point of view of global defence and from the point of view that we also send out a message that this is an economically strong country and that it remains on its own feet and that it is also very difficult to resist if anyone is going to show any hostility towards Finland. It is a good thing that these things have now been taken into account, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u91	And now, Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u92	Mr President! Representatives Kiuru and Taavitsainen asked about the capability of the Army, which is defined in the report as satisfactory. The capability of the army can be kept to a satisfactory level by the guidelines of this report, a good level would require more financial contributions. Mr Suutari's question was partly related to this. The equipment of the troops is not all good, it is satisfactory, for example, there are deficiencies in the ability to fight in the dark. Then several MPs, representatives of the plant, Essayah, Paloniemi, Kariniemi, Viljanen and Mäkipää, drew attention to cyber defense. More and more resources are being spent on it in the Defence Forces from within the defence budget. There is cooperation between the authorities and new posts have therefore been set up within the Defence Forces, so you can say that new threats have been recognised in the Defence Forces. And the development of a security strategy for society is under way, and in part it will answer your questions. Representatives Niikko and Hautala asked about industrial cooperation. It is quite true that counter-trade can no longer be made, as we may have done when the Hornets were acquired in 92, but we were not members of the European Union. But on the basis of security of supply, for example, we need to be able to maintain our ships in Finland. On that basis, we can use this industrial cooperation as a basis and thus get work and livelihood in Finland, and of course we do as much industrial cooperation as possible. To Mr Östman, I would say that we are certainly not setting up a common EU army. In the event of a crisis, EU countries will be able to help Finland if it is of benefit to the donor countries. This is an old history lesson, isn't it? Representative Pakkanen drew attention to the ability of the Defence Forces staff to cope. I quite agree, the staff in the defence power reform has been drastically reduced, but the report has defined this threshold of 12,000 people, which no longer counts. Representatives Kopra and Korhonen drew attention to the division of duties between internal and external security authorities. It is currently under consideration, not only in the defence administration, but also elsewhere in the administration and legislative work, for example with a view to this scenario of green men. Representative Heinonen said that the will to defend the country has fallen in the latest survey of the National Defence Information Board. We'll see if it's a permanent trend. This year's study is still to be carried out, but in any case the issue should be taken seriously. A study on the subject is ongoing at the National Defence College. Representative for Packalén, I am ready to organise a briefing at the Ministry of Defence, where through classified information we shed light on the basics of the Fleet 2020 and HX projects. Representatives Hakanen and Hongisto asked for support from other authorities. The strengthening of local defence as defined in this report, using voluntary defence work, will hopefully provide one answer in the future. Representative Eestilä called for concrete cooperation with the Nordic countries. There is, in particular, good practice cooperation, but it is quite clear that the most far-reaching cooperation can only be achieved by non-militaryly allied countries, namely Finland and Sweden. The Norwegian and Danish defence solution is unambiguously NATO. Congressman Kivelä was concerned about the number of refresher exercises. They don't compromise. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u93	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u94	Mr President! The most important question in the defence statement is certainly that we need credible defence. What's a credible defense? What does it involve? Is it an extra euro for material purchases? Is it military service, compulsory or voluntary? Is that NATO membership? Is that good diplomacy with the neighbors or something else? I'm sure there's no single answer. Realities need to be taken into account. Finland, with 5 million inhabitants, will never be able to compete in any arms race. As a small country, we will never be able to get our defences through the arms race to the level that, according to the number of equipment or soldiers, we alone will be credible. On the other hand, I do not believe that NATO would provide Finland with security guarantees that would save Finland from conflict in a politically unstable Europe. Rather, NATO could be a guarantee that would involve us in crises or military conflicts caused by other countries. The credible defence of the country is an entity based on our own willingness to defend our country. The government does not take this lightly. I respect Minister of Defence Niinistö and the extensive and serious work he has done with this report. In Finland, we have a very competent and stable position in the head of the Ministry of Defence for a long time. The number of wartime troops will be increased. We're getting equipment. We're going to buy the Hornets a replacement. We're investing in materials. This is what we have to do, even if it costs a lot of money. We must continue to maintain compulsory military service and not repeat the mistakes we have seen in our neighbouring country with voluntary defence. Furthermore, good diplomacy with neighbouring Russia cannot be overemphasized. When the world is tumbling, we politicians should not be the first to take part in a race call to bark at our neighbors. We don't do that in everyday life. What is a credible defence? Appropriate equipment, military service, good diplomacy and good neighbourly relations. Mr President! In a group statement by the Centre Party, Mr Savola said that "the only defender is the people of Finland". Personally, I do not want to forget the important factor that several heads of Finland have underlined over the centuries. In Luther's hymn, I said, "God took our castle." When man’s limitations reach the end point, it is not wrong to seek refuge even where it is least expected. During World War II, there was certainly more prayer in Finland than ever before. Prayer was given to God, who has decreed the boundaries of man’s dwelling and kingdoms. Similarly, there is no room for spirituality in the liberal and secular world view. It tries to move faith in God away from the center of society to its last corner. Faith and prayer have been made a vice. However, like North America, for example, they were left out of the EU Charter. They have been omitted from the everyday language of political decision-making. Mr President! Finland was not saved by our determination alone in World War II, our military equipment or our expertise or our own actions alone. As secular decision-makers, of course, we do what we have to do and what is expected of us. We'll take care of our own credible defense capability. However, we must not push out the true protector of our nation either from the garrison or from Parliament. That is why, also in connection with this report, we need to remember the situations that President Kallio meant when he said "Lord Jesus Christ, without you we are powerless against destructive forces."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u95	Madam President! I welcome the line taken by the government under the leadership of the Prime Minister's Party in the centre. It says that our defence will continue militarily unaligned, comprehensive and credible throughout the country. This line has long been recognised and has the strong support of the people. At the same time, however, we must remember that Finland is a small country on a global scale with limited resources. That is why we cannot just look inward in our defence policy. We need extensive cooperation with Sweden, the EU and the United States. For the first time, the defence policy report has been drawn up as a separate report which, in my opinion, signals that success in defence policy is becoming an increasingly important element for the well-being of society as a whole. During the last term of government, this trend seemed to be more of a downward trend. At the time, defence expenditure was cut by around 10% and extensive restructuring was carried out. I do not think that a strong reform is just a bad thing, but I must admit that these reforms are deeply burning from the heart of a professional soldier who has been in a military career for more than ten years. I believe that, following such changes, account should be taken of the way in which the restructuring has been managed. What has been the operation of the military mergers? How are the materials placed? What is the functioning of the new system? How have the staff survived and how are they holding up today? The soldiers are not known to complain in vain, but I know enough to say that during these reforms the survival of many of the staff has been a real trial period. It is quite clear that the management of credible national defence and the training of high-quality troops rely on well-being personnel. This must never be forgotten. One of the cornerstones of the defence's success is also universal military service. I've seen the positive impact of military duty on a young person's life since I was a military trainer. While education does take a great deal, it also gives many a sense of organization, leadership, cooperation, a will to defend the country, turning young people in the direction of a healthy and sporty way of life, and giving self - confidence to future tasks. I do not really understand, for example, the Greens' principle that universal military service should be replaced by a voluntary system. General military service is one of the very central creators of well-being in our society. Furthermore, the whole foundation of our defence still rests on its advantages. This is why it is essential to maintain general military service. Let us learn from Sweden, where we are now considering ways of returning to the old system. Personally, I would be prepared to extend the conscriptions of the conscripts to cover an entire age group, regardless of gender. There would be so-called social invitations that would bring to the whole age group the people through whom you can train for voluntary crisis management tasks. Madam President! The material procurement of the Defence Forces plays a key role in this report as well. The report is based on the implementation of these procurements. I personally think it is important that we find long-term parliamentary support for our defence procurement that is necessary in the future. Both the Fleet 2020 project and the HX project aimed at replacing multi-functional fighters are of the order of magnitude that they should have the widest possible support in their background. I also believe that we will succeed. In addition to investing in material procurement, one of the most important issues is also the readiness to combat cyber threats. I think that much more should be said about this. Our intelligence legislation must be up-to-date in order to genuinely respond to these threats. In addition, I believe that the expertise of the Defence Forces in electronic warfare should be strengthened. A very positive thing from the point of view of cyber competence is the establishment of a European hybrid centre here in Finland. In this report, however, I would have liked to see an even stronger effort being made to develop the skills of cyber-warfare. These skills are becoming increasingly important alongside traditional methods of warfare. It is essential for defence policy to be involved in this technological change and we must be aware that, with development, the cyber threat does not come just from one direction. Madam President! For more than ten years I have been watching the Defence Forces from within, and now as a political decision-maker, it has to be said that the government is taking a step in the right direction this season. Thank you to the entire government, especially Minister Niinistö. The raising of funds, the preparation of a report as a separate piece of work, increasing preparedness by increasing the number of troops in wartime, support for general military service and non-alignment, and the long-term economic development of material procurement are good and important decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u96	Madam President! Our security environment has radically changed. What has not changed is the need for a realistic foreign policy and credible defence in Finland. These things haven't changed or changed. On the other hand, almost everything else has changed and we must have the capacity to confront this new situation. Minister for Defence Niinistö said in his speech that we should not go to old wars — in some way — and that is, of course, quite the correct observation; the challenges are so new. First of all, I am part of this parliamentary group which is preparing intelligence legislation and I can say that Finland is 20 to 30 years behind developments in this area, i.e. the development of military and civil intelligence legislation. It was frustrating to note that the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs had been spying on it for years without the Finns knowing about it, and they were informed abroad that espionage had taken place. Examples of how serious things are at stake in this network activity are, for example, if we are able to destroy our electricity distribution system through an online attack. It is known that the Finnish distribution network is attacked several times, even dozens of times, on a monthly basis. But we can imagine that if these are really successful and serious attacks, what really serious social consequences will be. This isn't utopia. It can be said that Israel and the United States attacked Iran's nuclear centrifuges and destroyed a huge number of these centrifuges there with just such cyber attacks. We really are dealing with serious matters. If, for example, in January, when we have about 20 degrees below zero, the electricity grid would be out of service, it would be total chaos in Finnish society. All operations would be halted. If you think that, by generators, for example, YLE could transmit communications, quite a few people have battery - powered radios, although cell phones would still work for a while in such a situation. I am making this point because, in my opinion, there has been insufficient public attention to this and this cyber- and cyber-attack issue is so serious that more and more attention needs to be paid to it. Secondly, I would like to mention this cooperation with the European Union. It is much more important today than it has been before. After all, we are not in NATO, and cooperation within the EU can, to some extent, replace the military and defence cooperation we would otherwise have through NATO. Ukraine, Brexit and President Trump's choice has shown that the big things are at stake here. The European Union is now considering the possibility of creating so-called modules in which willing states, within the framework of structured cooperation, could engage in deeper military cooperation. Similarly, what should be done in the future for these fighting forces, the Battlegroups, should be given new thought to their situation. Procurement cooperation and all related research cooperation are also extremely important and important for Finland. Indeed, at the moment there is a moment in the European Union to develop these things. When the British leave the European Union, a significant part of its military capability is lost. Another very important point that I am raising here is the provision and request of international assistance. It is also a very big change, and Finland must be very central to developing its own legislation here, and hopefully we will have these laws in place by next year at the latest. If we talk about what is most pressing for me at the moment in addition to these matters, that is a possible possibility of a surprise attack. That's not up-to-date. But if such a thing were to happen in any context, we, as a Western democracy, would be rather slow to combat it. Another point that I have begun to consider since I visited the United States by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and discussed there with experts: they said and asked when:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u97	Madam President! I welcome the concrete lines of the report on strengthening defence and strengthening Western defence cooperation. The practice of setting up a parliamentary study group and this parliamentary preparation is also worthy of praise, and I was allowed to be involved in that preparation. The security situation in Finland's neighbourhood deteriorated as a result of the invasion of Crimea and the conflict in Eastern Ukraine. Later, other events have also increased international uncertainty. The countries in our neighbourhood have responded to changes in the security environment by improving their defence capabilities and by increasing their defence spending. For example, the Swedish Government has just decided to return military service in part. Although Finland has wisely maintained its defence on the basis of universal military service, we must also invest more in defence. Mr President! According to the report, military use of force against Finland or threat thereof cannot be ruled out. This means that in all situations, Finland's own defence capability must be taken care of. When we want to live in peace, we must constantly be prepared to defend ourselves in such a credible way that no one should threaten Finland or attack Finland. One of the most important aspects of the report relates to the Defence Forces' resources. From next year, EUR 55 million is proposed annually to improve defence capabilities. In addition, the funds allocated to defence procurement will gradually increase to EUR 150 million in addition to index increases from 2021 onwards. In addition, the replacement of the Air Force's Hornet fleet and the Navy fleet's capabilities is ahead of us. The cost estimate for aviation and navy procurement in the 2020s is up to EUR 10 billion. This is a huge but inevitable investment for national security. What is important is that there should be a broad parliamentary consensus on procurement funding. In addition to taking care of your own defence, another key line in the report concerns the development of Western defence cooperation in Finland. According to the report, Russia is seeking to strengthen its superpower position and has expressed its objective of a security structure based on the division of interests. Of course, Finland must not drift into the grey zone. The EU is a security policy choice and community of values for Finland. The report states that: Finland promotes the development of the Union’s defence cooperation. Finland does not have security guarantees from the Defence Union, and it is therefore in Finland's interest that the Lisbon Treaty clause on mutual assistance increases the possibilities for developing defence cooperation between the Member States of the Union. The report highlights defence cooperation with Sweden, which aims to strengthen the security of the Baltic Sea region and the defence of Finland and Sweden. According to the report, Finland is a non-military country that implements practical partnerships with NATO and maintains the possibility of applying for NATO membership. Finland must strive to keep this gate open for its own benefit. Madam President! The Defence Report points to the future of Finnish defence in an increasingly difficult security situation. The important message of the statement of defence is that the world has changed and will continue to change rapidly and that: Finland prepares itself for this by strengthening its own defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u98	Madam President! I shall keep my speech cut short because I would like to hear what Mrs Kääriäinen has to say about this debate before 5 p.m. on the report. That is why I intend to shorten my own speech. Indeed, Finland must pursue an active policy of stability and act in such a way that our country does not become a party to such a military conflict and be subject to military action. That is why this report also draws attention to the fact that Finland does not allow its own territory to be used for hostile purposes against other countries. I think this should also have been added that Finland also does not allow itself against any such hostile conflict, but perhaps it has been overlooked since. Raising wartime troops to 280,000 is a very good goal. In order to move the debate to the right point: this means that the regional and local defence capability here is improving, rather than taking those troops away from it. From the point of view of voluntary defence, I consider this increase to be very necessary and good. International cooperation is important to Finns, the Finnish Defence Forces, the military and the reservists. There has been a great deal of emphasis here on cooperation with Sweden, but other defence cooperation is also important. Bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom, for example, is, in my view, even more important in the future when Britain is left out of the EU. All in all, the resources of a small country must be managed effectively. I would like to ask Minister Niinistö: would it make sense to consider whether Finland should go to every international project or focus on something that we would benefit most from in terms of our own operations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u99	Mr President! Just a few more words about this follow-up activity. The observatories have been and will probably continue to build a consensus over the parliamentary term on the most important issues of the nation. This agreement requires transparency and political will on both sides and a great deal of debate. One lesson, perhaps even in this round, is that the government should discuss with the parliamentary monitoring group as much as possible before making its own decisions, and this is largely what has happened, for which we can be grateful afterwards in the direction of the government. It will lead to frustrating tracks if Members of Parliament are forced to gather information from the government about the policies of the report. This too should be kept in the back of the head as new reports are being wandered in the future. I would still welcome the fact that, at the same time as a number of reports on safety are being made, they would be based on a common safety analysis, which will then be relied on when these lines are drawn up in the form of different reports. And it would certainly be appropriate for all these preparations to be supported in their own way by parliamentary monitoring, as it were by the same group. All in all, it is necessary to continue with the practice of the parliamentary monitoring groups, on one condition, of course: where the authority takes the input of the monitoring groups seriously. Then they matter, then they unite, then they interest, then they really matter. Then there's the matter. I think things have been put right here. A credible defence always supports a wise foreign and security policy. Foreign policy must continue to be tuned in such a way that Finland will not face military conflict and that our country will not be used for hostilities against others. But, of course, at the same time, Finland must ensure that we implement a policy of receiving and giving national aid in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon. That's where we're going. Finland’s credible defence capability, together with Sweden’s policies and policies, is likely to stabilise the military policy situation in the Baltic Sea region. The importance of the report also lies in: These solutions will keep the capabilities of the Defence Forces up-to-date in relation to the environment, i.e. the military potential of Finland's neighbouring regions, and even the bad developments that can be observed there. The activities of the report ensure that performance is up-to-date, not only from the perspective of traditional defence but also from the point of view of managing new threats. Operational capacity, intelligence and predictability will be improved throughout. This is a level-lifting report, a level-lifting policy in the future. There's a point that might have been a little bit talked about. Finland has acted wisely through decades of concern for its defence capability and has not started to drive its defence forces down, as in Sweden, in part, it did. It's been a message and it's a message for every direction of the air. International cooperation supports our own defence. They go hand in hand. It is wise for us to continue to participate in international cooperation that will benefit us from developing our own defence. The European Union is a security community for us and, of course, it is to our benefit that we are active in developing its defence elements. Of course, it is not about building an army. Cooperation with Sweden is in a special position. I think it is wise that we go as far as both countries see it as wise in practical terms. Finally, the will to defend the country. General military service is the basis for positive attitudes. It is the fundamentality of fundamentalities in Finnish defence. Voluntary national defence work supports it and is the root of national defence. I will continue to see the need for a national consensus on defence solutions, particularly in the area of large procurement. But the main thing remains to be said in this respect — it was probably referred to by the representative of the Court of Justice and someone else in this debate: the will to defend the country will remain high if the people feel that it is worth defending Finland, and it is guaranteed by a fair policy, not even the best speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u100	As announced, this item will be suspended for discussion. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u101	The next item is the debate and discussion on case 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u102	Madam President! The Finnish defence system is a diverse entity, as Minister of Defence Niinistö said in his opening statement. This is also why the defence system should be developed as a whole and developed on a long-term basis. By the previous government, for decades, our long-term defence system was scrapped with the right amount of work. Ten per cent of the defence budget was cut, wartime troops were reduced by one third and six garrisons were abolished, including Kontioranta, which is close to me. All these actions were based on a completely incorrect assessment of the development of our safety environment. In addition, President Halonen's overlordship, example and signature were linked to the Ottawa Convention on Antipersonnel Mines. Antipersonnel mines would have been useful because of their deterrent effect. They're not attack weapons. They're defence weapons. I regard such agreements as acts of treason. The implementation of the draft measures in the report will continue to make it possible to defend the whole country in all situations. It is important to note this particularly in the areas where the garrison was abolished. The report also creates a sense of security in North Karelia. General military service and the defence of the entire territory of the country are still fundamental to our defence. They don't change anything. I was pleased to discover some time ago that women's voluntary military service was also of record interest in North Karelia. This year, a record number of 1,126 women applied for women’s voluntary military service in Finland. Since 1995, more than 7,400 women have been trained in the Reserve. It is the task of the Defence Forces to maintain the defence capability, which is capable of responding to a wide range of threats, regardless of the direction of the threat. The diversity of defence capabilities is the key to this. We must be aware of the fact that the war aimed at occupying the whole or part of our country remains a threat to us. The old wisdom "if you want peace, prepare for war" still applies. We cannot afford to leave any aspect of our defence clearly weaker than the other, because it is precisely that weakness that a potential enemy is taking advantage of. Unfortunately, there are no other garrisons on the eastern border between the Karelian Brigade and the Kainuu Brigade other than the North Karelian Border Guard Corps in Hollowola and, of course, in the east, the garrison behind the national border. There is a clear security vacuum here, which, knowing history, is usually filled by others if it is not taken care of itself. The acceleration of military activity in our neighborhood is not a matter of faith, but a fact whether you understand it or not. We must respond to this change by maintaining and further developing our defence. In addition to credible national defence diplomacy, it is the foundation that creates security in times of crisis and peace. I welcome the fact that, on the basis of this report, the readiness is being developed and the military forces are being increased by more 50 000 soldiers. Fleet 2020 and the acquisition of new fighters are mandatory investments. Material investment funding should also be gradually increased in line with the recommendations of the report of the study group chaired by Mr Kanerva. The Finnish people must have the opportunity to defend themselves, and all of this is needed to maintain a credible defence. The implementation of the guidelines set out in the report will enable our national defence to be developed in a balanced way for at least a decade to come. In a few years' time, we will be back to the same level that the previous government destroyed because of its stupidity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u103	Mr President! The security situation in Finland and the neighbouring region has developed in a worse direction. The Defence Report states that the early warning period for military crises has been reduced and the threshold for the use of force has been reduced. In the Government's Defence Report, the Government proposes that the Defence Administration receive an additional EUR 55 million per year from next year. Most of the funds go to the Army to raise the level of preparedness. The improvement of defence capabilities is proposed by raising the number of wartime troops from the present 230,000 to 280,000. The use of conscripts is also more diverse when necessary. The organisation for the founding of the wartime will be integrated into the local forces, and military personnel who have reached an adequate level of education will be used to raise their preparedness and to carry out crisis-time tasks. The major mistake made by the previous government in calculating the number of troops by one third is now necessary to correct. The Defence Statement and its implementation will safeguard Finland’s defence capability in a changing security situation, create the conditions for maintaining a credible defence system covering the whole country, align the implementation of strategic performance projects, improve the Defence Forces’ readiness and guide the deepening of defence cooperation and the development of national legislation. In addition, according to the report, the additional resources required to maintain the Defence Forces’ material investment level are EUR 150 million per year, starting in 2021. In the report alone, the price of Hornet substitutes is estimated at between EUR 7 and 10 billion and EUR 1.2 billion for the purchase of naval vessels. The report also deals with the reserve training system and voluntary defence work. Reservists' expertise will be better exploited in the wartime forces and the conditions for voluntary defence will be ensured. The National Defence Training Association will be developed as a strategic partner of the Finnish Defence Forces in accordance with the Nordic Code of Conduct. According to the report, the aim is also to strengthen the role of voluntary national defence in local defence and in auxiliary services. In the changed operating environment, the general will to defend the country is considered to be a more important factor. Although the economic situation is not good, we cannot wait for it to improve. Military activity in the Baltic Sea region and elsewhere has increased, and military use of force against Finland cannot be excluded either. In addition to the Earth, the Sea and the Air Force, cyber expertise is needed in the defence. In the Defence Report, cyber defence is defined as a defence component of cyber security consisting of intelligence and surveillance, influence and protection performance. The preparatory reform of the Intelligence Act is also important for cyber defence. Defence cooperation with Sweden is being intensified. As regards Sweden, the report states that there are no prior restrictions on the deepening of bilateral defence cooperation and Finland is active in cooperation. Mr President! The report sends a message abroad that Finland takes care of its own defence. The report defines our country's security and defence policy for a long time to come. There is also a very broad parliamentary consensus on the state of Finland's defence policy and the required development targets. National defence is a matter for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u104	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Finland is part of societies that focus on harmony and peace. Our goal is always a world of cooperation and peace. From that point of view, I think that this defence statement is a little too wary and a threat to the world. However, we live in a deep state of peace, and Finland has no enemies, and we ourselves are not a threat to anyone. The border between Finland and Russia is one of the most peaceful borders in the world. We have a very stable situation. Our security balance is further undermined by the military threat of climate change, population growth, global economic inequality and the depletion of natural resources such as oil. Internal and external security are intertwined, and security is no longer the expertise of any single government, such as the police, the Defence Forces or the Rescue Department, but is the responsibility of all Finns. In the Government's report on the state of civil security in Finland last year, citizens do not believe that the threat of war is likely. More than that, the citizens felt threatened by a prolonged economic downturn. I hope that, in future, parliamentary consideration will also be given to the assessment of the situation in the operating environment and that it will be the same as that stated in Parliament following the discussion of the report on foreign policy. Mr President! Finland has enough self-esteem to look our conversation partners in the eye and appreciate our neighbors, no matter what the direction of the air. Finland has good, close neighbourly relations but nevertheless has its own policies and decisions. For example, we would not be following Sweden if it made its airports available to NATO in a possible conflict in the Baltic Sea. Finland does not allow its territories to be used for hostile purposes against other countries. Even in an imaginary virtual military exercise, this should not happen. Such a detail is in the report that: There is no specific title for Defence Forces exercises, but there are references to them, for example, under section 4.2. The phrase could have been added: "Finland only participates in exercises that are useful to us and which we have participated in before and have no political impressions." I hope I have understood correctly that the Minister of Defence believes that this is also the Finnish line. Mr President! I am not in favour of joining NATO. Finland should continue as it was before. It is in the interests of a small country to be consistent. Great powers such as the United States can make quick translations, but for a small country it is not safe. Placing yourself as a target would not improve Finland’s security. In fact, the defence statement states that Finland is a non-military country — and it could have been clearly stated that it intends to continue to do so. Finland must have its own credible defence and general military service. And Finland always makes its own decisions as an independent country, which we see in our interests. But Finland still needs to have more influence than to be prepared. We must do everything we can to ensure that Finnish men and women do not end up in wars and conflicts within their own borders or in the world. International cooperation is a guarantee of peace and security. Europe is now carrying a huge cross on its shoulders when it has failed to create peace and stability in its neighbourhood. Social unrest on the other side of the Mediterranean is fuelled by youth unemployment, unstable society, lack of education and health care, inequality and corruption. Anger is brewing and growing when citizens have neither human rights nor political influence nor hope for the future. It is easy for terrorists to recruit more angry people into their ranks, and societies become radicalized. Europe, together with the great powers, must work for the governments of our neighbouring regions to abandon the repression of their own citizens and the repression of the opposition. The sale of weapons to war zones must be stopped. The entire international community must make peace more important than money, and Finland must play an active role as part of this community. Hope for change is not through wars but through strengthening civil societies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u105	Mr President! The report states that Finland strengthens national defence and strengthens international defence cooperation. It is in Finland’s interest to participate in international cooperation. It is important for the maintenance, development and use of national defence capabilities. The requirements of the operating environment require rapid deployment by defence of effective military capabilities, which contribute to strengthening stability in the Baltic Sea region. Mr President! Already during the debate, intensified cooperation with Sweden emerged. In this regard, too, I would like to raise the issue of the law in the Committee on Foreign Affairs which we have at the moment on the request for and the provision of assistance. Of course, I cannot go into detail, but it is clear that the law must support Finland's defence and security in a broad sense. Changed operating and technology environments must have the ability to make rapid decisions, for which there is a legal basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u106	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the first independent defence report in the debate, which now complements this whole, in which the UTP report, the Foreign and Security Policy Report, the Internal Security Report and the independent NATO report, the NATO evaluation, have been carried out in the past. With today's debate on whether or not we should do this again in the future, I personally welcome the fact that there has been an in-depth own-initiative report on these issues in such a tight time frame. If these are to be combined, then the Internal Security Report should also be included in this whole, because the external and internal security interface is very volatile today, and it will also be very visible in this report. The military environment, the security policy environment, has changed very quickly. If we remember events and debates at the beginning of the 21st century, then our then President Tarja Halonen, for example, described Russia as being on a good path, on the road to Western democracy and so on. We know what happened in 2007, 2008 and 2009, perhaps as the first sign of the war in Georgia, and also in what way, with a little amazement, there was a debate here in the Chamber on the speech by the then Minister Jyri Häkämies on 'Russia, Russia', and now, in retrospect, one could ask whether Mr Häkämies was not more than right — that was the case. Since then, Russia has continued its activities, taken over Crimea, is involved in the war in Ukraine and many others. As a result, the tension in the Baltic Sea has increased significantly. The Brexit will also have a role to play in the security of Europe, and the situation in the United States, which is still a small question mark with the new President, can also contribute to NATO's contribution to Europe in the future and how strongly Europe takes on this responsibility itself. The changes in this report are estimated to be long-term. Changes have also been made in many other countries. Until recently, Sweden believed that traditional wars would no longer be seen in the world, and now they are taking clear steps back. If I have understood correctly, Holland has regretted that they sold us their tanks, believing that the possibility of a traditional war would have disappeared in Europe, and now steps are being taken back. In his opening speech on the defence course, Commander Jarmo Lindberg said: "Taking care of one's own defence is not a sabering, it is a stabilising factor not only in our duty but also in our security environment. Our message is clear: Finland maintains its defence capability and readiness in relation to the development of the operating environment." That, in my opinion, was very well said. It was not surprising when it came out of the mouth of Commander Jarmo Lindberg, but it describes well what this is all about. We're raising wartime troops from 230,000 to 280,000. This is precisely a provision for the possibility that even a traditional war will not be impossible in any way, even if it is not likely at the moment. At the same time, Minister of Defence Niinistö has taken steps to speed up the slowness of the Achilles heel, the reserve army, in other words, to mobilise troops more quickly in different situations, and these legislations have already been discussed in Parliament. The stakes are now the first to be directed at the ground forces. News has reported on new equipment purchases: the big HX project, the replacement of the Hornets, and the fleet 2020, which replaces seven ships, the Rauma-class missile boats and the Hämeenmaa miners with four modern ships. Capacity will be improved by EUR 55 million per year, and an index increase of EUR 150 million per year will be added to the material purchases according to the Kanerva Task Force. With this report, NATO cooperation will be deepened and there will be no limits to cooperation with Sweden, which will enable it to go further. Mr President! I also support the proposal made by the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, that, like other countries, we should count these contributions to the defence, how much of the gross domestic product is going to go into them. We are very close to that 2% limit with this commonly used formula. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u107	Madam President! The high will of the Finns to defend the country, the general military service and the credible defence of the whole country are the right starting points for maintaining peace in Finland. The Foreign and Security Policy Report and this defence policy report are based on the fact that Finland, which is not a member of a military alliance, as one of the EU countries, is not neutral, even though we are not militarily united. According to the report, our security environment, especially in recent years, has changed in a more unstable direction and must be taken seriously. That is why defence cooperation with NATO, the EU, Sweden, Norway, Great Britain and, among other things, the United States is important and must maintain modern preparedness, our wartime defence capabilities and their further development. Mr President! It is also important to develop all our defence branches. The urgent correction and continuous development of the defence deficit of our country troops in line with the proposals of the Kanerva parliamentary working group are of paramount importance. Future major acquisitions — the replacement of naval vessels by the fleet 2020 multi-purpose fleet and the replacement of the air force fighters, Hornets, after 2025 — are well founded, albeit with a total of over 10 billion very expensive investments. Even with that amount, I do not think the price of ensuring Finland’s security is unreasonable. In the design and decision-making of procurements, progress must be made from the point of view of military performance. Mr President! War is unpredictable and total. New technologies are also constantly being developed in the planning of both the attack and the defence war. We also need to monitor our time more closely in this regard. The successful regional defence of regional or local forces, for example, may well depend on the new technology available, as well as on human and mass material. I believe that the Minister of Defence's statement that the troops are being deployed in accordance with their duties must be fulfilled as thoroughly as possible. However, our level here is only satisfactory. I think this needs to be corrected. It's the cheapest credible defense. Mr President! Finland has continued to defend and defend its territory and will not allow anyone to use it for attack purposes. With this report on defence policy, we are not preparing for war, but for its prevention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u108	Mr President! The military environment in Finland and the whole of the Nordic Region has been changing for a long time. Since the publication of the Government Defence Report, we have read about Sweden’s decision to reinstate its military service in 2010, because the resources of the professional army are not sufficient to meet today’s major security policy challenges. At the same time, the fact that Sweden will return military service after such a short period of time as it has ceased to exist shows in a harsh way the change that has taken place in the environment so quickly. In the case of Sweden, a very fundamental solution adopted less than 10 years ago has proved inappropriate for the new situation. In the south of Finland, the Gulf of Finland and the entire Baltic Sea region have become a much more active area of activity in military terms. In the north, the Arctic region is facing us, whose strategic importance will be enhanced by the possible opening up of the North-East Arctic waterway to maritime transport to a wider extent than is currently the case. Mr President! According to the report, our Navy and Air Force are doing a good job. The capabilities of the Army are at a satisfactory level. This level has been influenced by the lack of appropriations which, instead of development, has led to the use of funds to maintain basic defence functions. In a static, unchangeable security environment, this may not affect the Defence Forces' ability to operate very quickly and critically. In a rapidly changing operating environment, the situation is different and requires constant monitoring and development of both equipment and operating methods to reflect the changing situation. Better assessment of both Navy and Air Force capability in relation to: The army is also supported by the fact that these defence branches have more or less the same number of equipment at their disposal during peace and crisis. When preparing for the crisis, the change in the material of the army will be greater. As has been said, there is a very rapid change in the military threat situation today. This is why Finland needs to develop its ability to carry out military intelligence, so that we have a sufficiently broad and truthful picture of our rapidly changing security environment. This information is what we need to ensure the right security policy-making in a timely manner. Mr President! The future equipment of the Navy and the Air Force will maintain their ability to operate at a good level. At the same time, with public attention focused on these procurements, care must be taken to ensure that the capabilities of our largest defence arm are maintained at a credible and sufficiently impactive level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u109	Madam President! As Mrs Immonen, a group speaker from the Finns Party, said, mistakes were made in our defence policy during the last term of government. The defence budget was cut by 10 per cent, the military forces were reduced by one third and six garrisons were abolished. Similarly, the decision taken last season to join the Ottawa Convention banning anti-personnel mines was a mistake, and the leaving of the Dragsvik garrison, which alone would have had to stop. Fortunately, we now have an excellent Minister of Defence, under whose leadership the mistakes that have been made in the past will be corrected. During the last term, he served as chairman of the Defence Committee. Here I quote from his interview with the Finnish News less than a few years ago, early April 2015: "Finland must hold onto its own credible defence. If the crisis in Ukraine had begun at the beginning of the current parliamentary term, the defence budget would not have been cut or anti-personnel mines destroyed. In the coming parliamentary term, errors must be corrected as far as possible." That's what Niinistö said. "Despite the increase in the defence budget, there is broad consensus but The Finns Party is in favour of exiting the treaty, the SDP is opposed to exiting the treaty — at least as long as Erkki Tuomioja is in the picture." Madam President! Niinistö also said: "No other type of weapon can replace a mine in Finnish terrain. Mine is a cheap and domestic defence weapon, without which the credibility of the entire country's defence is more challenging. At the very least, Finland must be prepared for the rapid and mass production of anti-personnel mines." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u110	Madam Speaker! We have had a very interesting debate today. There is a consensus on the broad lines. Defence policy is becoming more and more central to the debate. The world is changing, and in many ways it becomes more uncertain. However, the fact that defence policy is becoming more and more central does not mean that the social climate is militarising, but, on the contrary, defence issues must be awake. In one speech, the teaching of national defence awareness was proposed at a secondary level. I'll think about that. It may be well worth thinking about, and it does not mean any militaristic spirit, nor does it mean that the teacher’s ideal is to have characters like Pentti Rautajärvi — who we remember here under the North Star — but the knowledge of the country’s defence is part of a kind of full citizenship and general education. Yesterday, regional and social issues were discussed. Unfortunately, I was unable to take part in another task. Following the regional and social reform, it may be appropriate to clarify the suitability of the Defence Forces Regional Organisation for the future regional government. The increase in the reserve will also put pressure on us to look at the existing structures and responsibilities of the Defence Forces Regional Offices. Today’s provinces and futures are full of different regional offices. I think it would also be appropriate to discuss the names of the Defence Forces regional offices. I believe that added value would at least result from the fact that, because of the ambiguities, the word'military' would appear in their name in some form. For example, the military office in Ostrobothnia or North Savo would immediately tell the reader what is at stake. Madam President! Soon many congregations will even celebrate the Memorial devotions and concerts of the end of the winter war. The winter war was insufficiently equipped. Stocks, quick purchases and industrial mobilisation made it possible to fight those famous 105 days of glory. The truce was obtained by lime lines, the mobilisation of the war industry was not discharged. Thus we were able to wage a further war. The situation is somewhat similar now because, by the decision of previous governments, the Defence Forces have been forced to eat, in quotation marks, in the seats reserved for war, and even the strength of the field army is at a minimum. When we study the current crises, none of them have been a lightning war. Rather, frozen crises, conflicts and wars are the most illustrative term. It is clear that we are not able to produce or acquire the most technological military equipment ourselves, nor would it be wise for the national economy to buy it in storage. The satisfactory level set out in the report is therefore acceptable. I trust that the leadership of the Defence Forces will be able to assess a satisfactory level realistically and act under political guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u111	Madam President! The Government's defence statement in the referral debate will come at an excellent time. This report gives us guidelines for the maintenance and development of Finland’s defence capability until mid-2020. The situation in our neighbourhood and in Europe has recently become considerably worse. Events in Crimea and Ukraine have clearly raised tension in Europe, between the major powers and in general. Changes within the European Union have also been significant. It must be remembered that, for example, the Brexit, the resignation of the British from the EU, has clearly raised uncertainty in Europe, for example, and we do not know what will happen this year in the elections in the Member States of the European Union. These too are factors that affect the stability and environment of Europe in general. The defence statement has been prepared extensively in cross-administrative cooperation and has been prepared by a parliamentary monitoring group. On many occasions the work of this monitoring group has been commended, and I would also like to thank the monitoring group for its excellent work – of course there is also a previous report on foreign and security policy behind it. The documents on which this report is based are very high-quality and very carefully prepared. So we have a very good basis for this report. The acceleration of crises is also a phenomenon of our time. We all know what has happened in Crimea, for example, or in Ukraine, or in other regions in general: crises can suddenly arise, not necessarily as big wars, but as small crisis scenes which then slowly expand. Finland is prepared for everything so that we can continue to secure our own territory, control both land borders and sea borders, and our airspace independently through our own operations and equipment. One threat has increased significantly in recent times, and it is these cyber threats. The threat to Finland through the information networks is very significant, for example, the maintenance of electricity networks. The use of today's power grids is very much based on computer programs, and their being paralysed by an external cyber attack via computers in a moment will paralyse the entire country and cause a very difficult situation both for national defence and for the safety of society as a whole, and it is extremely important to prepare for it. The intelligence legislation currently under preparation is extremely important for Finland’s future. The working time of this working group was extended by two months, until the end of February, and it is hoped that this working group will get good work done and that Finland's intelligence legislation will be updated and, above all, the tools for preparing for cyber threats will be created. When we move around the information networks, we must have legislation that is absolutely up-to-date. We cannot stick to decades-old laws on this subject. They are today's problems and require today's legislation. The number of Finnish wartime troops will be raised from 230,000 to 280, which in my opinion is an extremely wise decision. Finnish defence continues to be based on general military duty, regional defence, trained reserves and, above all, on good equipment through credible defence. We must have up-to-date equipment, and that is what this defence report is quite right to comment on. In the next decade, we will have to renew both: Air Force Fighters and Navy-required equipment. Both these equipment supplies are needed in this country, and it is good that, as I understand it, we have a very large consensus in this country that we will acquire the good equipment that will enable us to do the necessary work for the defence well. In any case, we must ensure that the country is defended on every square inch of its land, regardless of its location. Universal military service still offers an excellent opportunity, and above all it brings with it an extremely important issue for Finland's defence, and it is a will to defend the country. If there was no will in this country to defend the territory and integrity of this kingdom, we would be in a much worse situation, but in Finland the will to defend the country is very high, and every Finn sees it as a very big thing that the country remains independent, untouched and that no kind of invasion is done through Finland, for example, against our neighbours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u112	Madam President! There have been several contributions to the way in which we report our share of GDP. I agree that in this way we must be comparable with the various countries, that all costs must be indicated, and then, in percentage terms, can also be reported to 1.6, up to 1.7, where crisis management tasks are also involved. This is where I took the idea that I feel very important, too, that we see in this report that we have extremely competent personnel in the Defence Forces and that we will continue to be able to train them in crisis management tasks. It's an extremely fine training for officers when they're in that crisis management detail. It will provide the readiness for everyday life, training here in the Defence Forces. I think it is extremely important, and it is good to note here too that when you assess that share of GDP, this whole is seen in the right way. But then I was left with a little bit of this unity here. We talked very extensively here about the general military duty, about its continuation, but it is a pity that there is no one here from the Green Parliament to tell us about the implementation of their programme of principles. In what way would they actually, when we talk about the financial perspective, replace this with an army of hires? It's inconceivable that people throw things like this around here. In the day, I compared it to eating cotton candy to taste sweet, yet it is not enough to hold the spirit with that kind of talk. I really would have liked some answers from the Green Group. But the fact that we really will be able to discuss and have made an extremely good defence statement this year, Finland 100 years, is a reflection of the unity behind that government's table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u113	Madam President! In the 1990s, when the Cold War was behind us, a lot was said about whether history was actually over, whether the future development of history was merely a triumph of liberal democracy and peaceful coexistence from now on. Well some European countries concluded that the old world’s security threats disappeared with the old world and that it would no longer be necessary to prepare for traditional security threats with the same intensity. As a result, armed forces were driven down in many countries. There was much slower in Finland, and I must say that perhaps a slower way for a Finn to react to changes in the world may be more effective in the final games. However, since we are now widely sharing the idea that the traditional security threats have not disappeared with the old world but that the great powers are still using force and disregarding international law, it is much easier for us to make additional investments in the existing, functional, good defence structure than in countries where the defence forces have been effectively driven down, to rebuild their defence capability from an empty table to respond to these traditional security threats. I find it particularly valuable that, although we are living in difficult economic times, there is a very broad consensus at national level that maintaining the defence forces' credible defence capability is so important that resources must also be found in difficult economic times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u114	Mr President! This time, the defence statement has been carried out — for the first time — as a separate one, i.e. separate from the report on foreign and security policy. It may be that the discussion of this report will also focus for a moment on whether this is a good method or whether we should really go back to the system where we were in the past, in other words where the foreign policy situation and defence are being considered at the same time. For example, in this picture of the situation we have about a year ago, especially since this report has not been taken into account, as a starting point for the report of the parliamentary report on foreign and security policy adopted last December, but rather the report prepared about a year ago. That's why here is now such a scheduled question but also on the other hand such a thoughtful question: my perspective and the line represented by the party is that we have the best defense is well-managed foreign policy. The fact that they are on the same paper supports how much more can actually be done by influencing, participating in foreign policy debates, in all forms of cooperation, bilaterally or globally through all the others of the UN, the EU, the OSCE, to make our security situation better than just preparing for it. This is a naive thing to say, but we will never have enough money to equip ourselves with weapons to bypass everything that foreign political negotiating skills have to offer, never. There will not be that much money, and hopefully there will never be such a situation. The line is that Finland stays out of conflict, our defence is to maintain peace, not create horror images. We do not want our territory, that is, the country called Finland, to be used as a playing field for anyone outside us, so that troops or this area can be used as a battlefield for some other interest groups. And that will be achieved by still having universal military service and military non-alignment. Of course, this issue will be discussed as to how much Finland will then cooperate at European level, with these three legislative packages currently under discussion in this House, i.e. the contributions to the provision and request of assistance resulting from the Treaty of Lisbon. There are still a few things to be twisted there, but there is a will for the European Union to be our partner, through which security and defence can also be built together. Then we are much closer to Sweden and even Norway. As far as Sweden in particular is concerned, we would have liked this report to have looked a little further into the ways in which this cooperation with Sweden — which is also, in the same way as Finland, non-aligned — can be built. In the same context, the Committee on Defence – although it is now a little better known – has still wanted to know what kind of exercises Finland participates in and what are the reasons why Finland is going to do some of the exercises. Of course, it must always be based on the fact that Finland benefits from this in terms of increasing its knowledge. But this is still going to have to be dismantled again and again, because it is also not quite free to participate in those exercises. Finland’s foreign policy policy and, therefore, within it, this defence policy has been a consensus policy. I hope that, even in the face of this, all these preparations will be made parliamentaryly, not as in the case of the three sides within, but between the eight parties — or how many parties there are — because Finland's mission to remain outside the conflict must come in accordance with the will of the whole Parliament. So we are outside the military alliance, and it must also take a sufficient amount of strength to think about how we maintain its military capability to defend our own country. It is well documented in this report that each future government will evaluate in its own budgetary framework, in the budgetary plan, and in each year's budget, which is the amount of money that can and will be invested in these. We must also assess the changed foreign policy situation, since Brexit — Britain is, at present, the largest country in the European Union, as is the case with the euro on the defence side — and the situation in the USA with regard to troops and equipment stationed in Europe will change this situation. This is a very different situation from when the analysis of the Foreign and Security Policy Report has been carried out. So the more influence,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u115	Madam President! Mr Paatero took the floor to reflect on the diversity and separation of the reports and suggested that they should be considered together — the foreign and security policy report and the defence policy report now under discussion. Personally, I would see the problem that, if these were to be done together, why the Internal Security Report would not then be in it as a whole, because the border fence is very loose at the moment from the point of view of terrorism and these. So either one such major report or this current model, in my opinion, is justified. Well, then, because we are in the right time, of course, a moment ago we did not know that Trump won; a moment ago we did not know that the Brexit vote won and so on — and we do not know what will happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. And these, of course, always affect the environment we live in. Representative Paatero also considered these exercises, which we will participate in. I myself have now had six years in the Committee on Defence and I am convinced that all the exercises we have been involved in have been justified: they have strengthened our expertise, our security. And I would actually like to ask Mr Paatero: what kind of exercise do you think has been one that should not have been attended? So does that exist when you questioned the participation in these exercises? This picture of the situation is shown here: I put up the evening paper’s editorial on February 16, where it is well described that realism is no use labeling it sabering or threats as intimidation, and yes, that is what I think first of all. The message to the world must be clear: we take care of our own defence and increase stability and security in the neighbourhood. And that is what this report is determined to do in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u116	Madam President! This report has been dealt with in a very diverse way and it is unnecessary to repeat all the good things that have been mentioned. Perhaps in general terms, I am delighted that Finland is now more courageous than before: we are talking in a clearer language about Finland's defence, cooperation, the various networks in which we are involved, and we are looking for Finland to be a credible player in its own defence, not only as an active player, and it is evident from this report in all its aspects. There is one thing I would like to raise here. On page 17, there is talk of bilateral cooperation. Among other things, it says: "Finland has a special role to play in its bilateral cooperation. Defence cooperation with Sweden aims to strengthen the security of the Baltic Sea region and the defence of Finland and Sweden." Then it says: "The United States is an important partner for Finland, with whom defence cooperation improves Finland's defence capability." These are interesting phrases when everyone says, however, that Finnish policy and defence policy are not based on NATO cooperation, but we can always read in all these texts how increasingly Finland and the United States are working together to ensure that one day Finland will be a member of NATO. That is the image you get — I am not saying that this has been decided at some point, but that is the picture you get of these texts. "Finland continues its close cooperation on materials and I asked the Minister of Defence what these letters of intent contain. Some of what they contain can be found on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, but Britain, among others, has not wanted Finland to publish what is contained in the letter of intent between Finland and Britain — very interesting, and I would like to see this change and also transparently see what this paper contains. Then it says: 'This includes' — this cooperation — 'the deepening of the defence policy dialogue, the exchange of information, the strengthening of capabilities and capabilities, interoperability, training, material and research cooperation'. And so on. I would now like to mention this host country agreement that Finland and the United States have, which has not been opened in any of these documents. By the way, just such an observation that when there is this vocabulary, as it were, the keys to definitions, from which one can then see what a concept means, then there could be a 'ideal agreement' here, there could be a 'host country agreement' here, so that we could easily understand what they mean. Well, on the host country agreement, the host country agreement between Finland and NATO, the official name "Protocol of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Finland and the Executive Chief of the Transformation Staff of the North Atlantic Alliance and the Operation Headquarters of the North Atlantic Alliance on the provision of host country support for the implementation of NATO operations/objections/related military activities". Did you know that Finland is involved in this? You may not have thought about that. It says: 'The Protocol defines how NATO, as well as its forces of Member States or other States, can set up bases and bring troops into the host country's territory both during peace and in times of crisis'. We're pretty NATO-compatible. And now, the very essence of my speech. Mr President! It would be honest in these public documents, bearing the name 'defence report', to open these concepts and openly state what these various declarations of intent and host country agreements contain. Only then would this document be completely honest, so to speak. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u117	Madam President! When Mr Paatero and Mr Heinonen spoke in this regard about the differences in the timeliness or the timeliness of these reports, or whether they were made together or separately, there are, of course, no real absolute answers to this, but this is always a measure of technology. It is also worth noting, of course, that all reports are always made at a time and place and are a sort of review and, in fact, during their completion and immediately after their completion, everything happens. Of course, these do not take shape in the vacuum, but there is, of course, a wider picture of the situation. Of course, one argument in favour of this kind of procedure, as has been the case during this regime, has just been raised by Mr Heinonen, who said that there has now been quite a lot of internal security issues involved here, and, on the other hand, that the foreign and security policy situation may be living in a considerable amount of time. Let us now say the 2011 Arab Spring changed pretty quickly how we see the political situation in the Middle East. On the other hand, the occupation of Crimea in 2014 fundamentally changed how we see relations between Europe and Russia, for example. However, rapid changes in these foreign and security policy cycles should not affect the long-term development of the Defence Forces and Defence Capability. As I pointed out in my previous speech, if the defence capability is pushed down, it can be very difficult to pedal it up quickly, and that is why, of course, a long-term and sustainable way of development is essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u118	Madam President! I do not know if there has been any discussion of such matters when at least representative Hakanen raised the issue of that professional army. Today the situation is such that warfare, its form and everything, is changing terribly quickly. There has been talk of cyber warfare, unmanned warfare, including in Israel is a very advanced issue of this kind, there are no more such lines as before, and invitations and things like this may be past things even when the war has started. That is precisely what a professional army is a very capable, functional and changing unit. Among other things, its training can be changed much faster than military training, and it is much easier to adapt to the situation than the average number of conscripts. A professional army is also effective in relation to the number of men and so on. This is the kind of question that came to mind when Mr Hakanen spoke about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u119	Madam President! There's one more thing about this when we ran out of time. When it is said at the mouth of the Minister of Defence that the current level of funding is not sufficient to ensure that Finland’s defence capability is credible, it is extremely worrying. It is great that this report now opens up the period in which this defence capability is raised to a level that is credible. The second thing I would have liked more debate on is whether Finland’s defence capability is overly sufficient without NATO. So I am not a NATO supporter and I am not speaking on behalf of NATO, but I would like an honest debate as to whether any other entity can really be such a deterrent to the Finnish defence that it would be a significant restriction on the enemy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u120	Madam President! I have just mentioned Mr Paatero's speech: It is easy to agree that the central issue is, of course, diplomacy and international relations. Of course, as far as defence solutions are concerned, both bilateral and multilateral cooperation will have a decisive impact on whether Finland is a country with sufficient credibility and, if necessary, outside our borders as well. But, in fact, a little about what Mr Laukkanen has just said, in fact, whether we are members of NATO or not, we must, in any case, ensure the credibility of our own defence capacity. There has now been a lot of debate about the fact that, while the Baltic States are within NATO security guarantees as such, would they then be sufficiently capable to counter the attack when a possible sudden attack occurred, despite their membership of NATO. This is not so much the case with Finland, where it is widely felt that Finland has the ability, the will and the willingness to defend its own borders, even if necessary on its own. Of course, it's always nicer if you have friends to support you, but regardless of whether you're friends or not, you have to take care of your own property anyway. In the case of the Baltic countries, this question has been raised, and perhaps for good reasons. I welcome with joy the fact that Europe across the board seems to be becoming more and more of a trend towards self-defence. Of course, the Baltic countries will then have the advantage of having NATO security guarantees and a basic commitment that, if they are attacked, at least with some delay, assistance will be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u121	Mr President! And happy Women's Day — I received a remark that I had not at all remembered to wish it — to the President and other women in Parliament. Now I've fixed this mistake. But the credibility of the defence that was discussed here, the rest of the game was judged by others other than ourselves. When we speak in solemn speeches that we have credible defence, that is what we can do, but at the end of the game that assessment will take place in another way, and in that sense, the harmonisation of the calculation of the defence budget proposed by Mrs Kanerva, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, is justified. It is a clear indication that we are using it to defend about 2% of gross domestic product in the formula used by other countries. I personally believe that EU defence cooperation is the thing of the future that will be determined to move forward. We in Parliament are currently dealing with the reform of the provisions on assistance and, above all, access to assistance. In the Treaty of Lisbon we have committed ourselves to providing assistance to another EU country when it needs it, by all means possible, and on the other hand, which, unfortunately, has become a little less important in Finland, we also have the right to receive it, and it really does not mean just blankets or olive oil for everyone, but, above all, that we are genuinely helping in a situation where another country needs it. I agree with Mr Rydman, as is widely stated in the assembly, that NATO is not a solution for us, but, above all, we must take care of our own credible defence, even if we think that NATO would increase our security in the big picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u122	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u123	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on extradition between Finland and other Member States of the European Union. It is proposed that the law be amended to make a request for arrest and extradition in order to enforce the custodial sentence by the prosecutor on a proposal from the Central Administrative Unit of the Criminal Sanctions Agency. It is also proposed that only the prosecutor should be able to request permission from another Member State to execute a sentenced prison sentence other than that for which the person has been extradited to Finland. The provision would not restrict the competent prosecutors who have or have had jurisdiction to prosecute in the present case. — I consider the amendment to be appropriate. The proposal states that the proposed task would be a new one for the prosecutor. Since the prosecutor should in future make not only requests for extradition but also requests for the enforcement of custodial sentences, the amount of the prosecutor’s work would increase somewhat. At this stage, it is good to ask whether this proposal takes account of the fact that there is also an increase in the number of prosecutors, or whether additional work will be carried out by current prosecutors in addition to previous work. At this point, it would probably also be useful to highlight once again the return of convicted foreign prisoners to their countries of origin. There is a need to reduce the number of foreign prisoners. The proportion of foreign prisoners is increasing. At present, there are between 16 and 18 % of all prisoners. One-quarter of foreign prisoners are Estonians. It would be easy to return them to a safe home country, so the costs in Finland would be reduced. The transfer of sentenced persons within the European Union is governed by a framework decision on the mutual recognition and enforcement of the custodial sentence in the EU. Estonia has implemented the above Framework Decision. The Act has been applicable to transfers between Finland and Estonia since the beginning of 2015. However, according to the law, the issuing State itself is considering whether to propose the transfer of the sentenced person. According to my information, very few Estonian prisoners have been returned to Estonia, so this would be a place for greater efficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u124	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-08-ps-19.u125	Mr President! Menstrual protection causes women a lot of gender-related costs over the course of their lives. The amount of money that goes into menstruation covers varies individually, for each person’s needs vary personally in different life situations, but most often the sum rises to thousands of euros during a woman’s life. These expenditures on sexual and reproductive health for women are not the only ones. Prevention and gynaecology also become a special burden on women over the course of life. The costs of incontinence shelters can be even more significant. The high price of detention shelters makes it particularly difficult for the elderly and the sick to find themselves in a narrow economic situation. Menstrual protection and detention protection are essential hygiene and health products that can rightly be compared to health products. That is why I have taken the initiative of proposing to amend the VAT Act to transfer these goods from the general VAT rate of 24% to a reduced VAT rate of 10% for health products. This would facilitate the purchase of these essential items and would offset the specific burden on women from menstruation protections and the burden of incontinence shelters on the sick and the elderly. After the tax reduction, the cost of shelters for the individual would still be higher but still lower. Of course, the transfer of menstruation and incontinence protections to a reduced VAT category would result in some loss of tax revenue, but the level of tax loss would not be very high on the national economy scale. The reduced VAT rate should apply to all menstrual products, i.e. not only disposable sanitary towels, tampons and panties, but also covers and menstrual cups made from washing materials — these are also more environmentally friendly products than disposable products. Mr President! I have received a lot of feedback on this bill I have taken. I have received many messages from women and especially from the elderly and the sick. They believe that this problem should be remedied and that there are reasonable grounds for tax reductions. On the other hand, I have also received disparaging messages asking whether there are no bigger problems in the world to fix than the price of health ties. But you cannot think that small problems will only be corrected once all the big problems have been resolved — if you think so, the time for small problems will never come. Nor is this a small matter for those it touches. For example, sick people often have a tight financial situation, which is even more affected by the purchase of shelters. Some have seen the initiative as discriminating against men. I do not see how this would be the case, because if men buy men’s periods or incontinence shelters, they are equally affected by the tax reduction. It must also be borne in mind that some men, too, are in need of restraint because of illness and ageing, and they too would certainly be affected by the tax reduction. Mr President! The EU Directive allows the taxation of menstruation and incontinence protections in a reduced category of pharmacological products. Protection has been transferred to a reduced VAT rate, at least in France and the United Kingdom. There has also been a debate in some countries as to whether menstruation protection should be fully exempt from VAT. There is also a debate in the USA, Australia and Canada on the tax treatment of menstrual protections and the appropriate level of taxation. There would therefore be no obstacle to this change either from the direction of the EU or from the direction of national legislation, otherwise, if there is political will. In this way, on women's day, it is good to remember that equality is born of small and large acts and that these smallest acts are also needed. It is appropriate, therefore, that this referral debate should be held right now on Women's Day.
