ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. At the same time, I would ask those who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u2	First question, Mrs Feldt-Ranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u3	Mr President! The Finnish economy is growing and more and more Finns are now asking whether this growth belongs to all. This is asked by families with children, unemployed people and pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u4	Minister... An orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u5	Madam President! There was a desire for both of us to answer this question. — When the competitiveness agreement was concluded, the government set in motion the process, because we sought greater competitiveness for the Finnish industry, so that we could get us to export, which for seven years had stalled and been very subdued. That is why we had come to Finland with high unemployment and great economic difficulties and also a great deal of human distress. This was entrusted to the social partners and they took it up. Its content was shaped by labour market organisations. When the agreement came into being, this competitiveness agreement, which includes a holiday allowance cut, was widely supported in society, in Finnish contract society. The Social Democratic Party supported the Competitiveness Pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u6	Time's up, Minister Orphan. — I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u7	Mr President! I have always supported the settlement, but I will never be able to support the pressure of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u10	Mr President! The Government went to seek, primarily by means of a competitiveness pact, an improvement in competitiveness, and what we proposed and applied for was an extension of working time. Then, after various stages, social partners, employees' representatives and employers' representatives agreed on the content. They agreed on the content and they signed it and they have decided in their own bodies. I have my own experience and view that if the social partners and their representatives had not accepted this, they would not have accepted it. I mean, if they hadn't, they wouldn't have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u13	Mr President! That is why it is an important question that the question of whether growth belongs to all, including those teachers, carers and, Mr Orpo, the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u14	Mr President! So what the government was driving, and it was driving strongly, was that competitiveness would be improved and unit labour costs could be reduced, and what was the end of the flood, which was signed by the social partners, was this model, which also involves this reduction in holiday money. Since it has also been said that it is an entity — it is an entity that everyone signs — then, if any part is moved, it means that it is in danger. I believe that the President of the SAK has also referred to this. If the parties that have signed the Competitiveness Pact find a package with the same effect, then it will be possible — if they all find another entity. But in this situation, in which we are currently engaged in a round of alliances, I am not sure whether it makes sense to open that agreement, and I am not sure that this debate makes sense. I would also like to say that it is essential for the police, nurses, kindergarten teachers, firefighters — important employees in the public sector — that we get the Finnish economy in order. Public finances in order, tax revenue growing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u15	Madam President! First of all, the left-wing alliance was not pulled out of the nose when we were discussing kiwi. We were pulled under the keel together with their family day - care workers and kindergarten teachers, low - paying public workers. Our assessment at that point was that this is not a very wise option for the domestic market and that there are families with children who are not saddened by the fact that they are not going on a holiday this summer or the next summer, but by the fact that parents cannot afford to buy themselves glasses or the clothes needed for children that — for goodness sake — have been bought with that money. They're not meant to be scrubbed. It's been a lot of work. Now I would like you to answer: can you consider that this moderation should take place at the moment when the negotiations on the agreements are being held?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u16	Madam President! The starting point for this competitiveness pact was that Finland was 15 per cent behind in competitiveness in the competitor countries. We sought three ways of doing this: firstly, wage moderation, which has been well achieved, a competitiveness pact and increased productivity. In all three sectors, we have now come to the conclusion that we have already achieved Sweden compared to this 2005 benchmark and that Germany is likely to achieve it in 2019. This, on the other hand, has led to our exports being driven and our growth is now on a sustainable basis. Then what was our way of doing this part of the competitiveness pact? It was a small increase in working time for everyone, in such a way that it did not target one group, and it was only done for 24 hours. If we had made a 100-hour increase,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u17	Madam President! Criticism of Kikyy has been seen in the workplace. In September, the 370 employees of the Valmet plant in Rautpohja in Jyväskylä reported a stoppage, and they explained the problems at the workplace and, for example, the problems related to friction. I would ask you, government: in what way do you listen to the workers and the sound of the field, which is related to the pain? How was the negotiations on the Competitiveness Pact negotiated? We have a problem that collective agreements, the TES, limit the right to negotiate to a trustee or a trustee, but what if it was an unorganised company and there is a representative, who negotiated whether the staff were consulted? The third question is: how much employment has the kiky possibly brought or will be, since it has been one of the basic ideas of kiky?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u18	Madam President! First of all, this public-sector employee, that kindergarten teacher who has been working for five years and whose salary is about 2500: When the government has imposed tax reductions on middle and low-paid people, the balance of this 2,500 earners is positive in view of this holiday allowance cut. But of course it will appear in the one-month balance when that holiday allowance cut is seen, but when you look at the whole year or the whole month on average, that balance is positive in the case I mentioned. So, did we have a discussion with the social partners? I myself was involved in many discussions, and this was agreed together. This was the common path to it. This was the working part of these projects to get a job for the unemployed. Has it affected you? Yes, it has. It was then estimated that it would be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u19	Mr President! Now we have the evidence of the negotiators on the side of the workers that the government demanded. Now we also have the testimony of EK’s central operator, CEO Häkämies, that the government required these cuts. We therefore have eyewitness evidence from the stand that the government has specifically called for these holiday allowance cuts. Mr Orpo, I read a little light on the end of the tunnel from your speech just now that you were prepared to accept that these holiday allowance cuts should be cancelled or changed. However, this requires in some way the involvement of the State. You have cut EUR 119 million in municipal government contributions for these kiky cuts and holiday money. Do you now have the capacity to start off by the State in such a way that these pain-based holiday allowance cuts, which the government has called for to be carried out, can be cancelled in such a way that holiday money can be returned to these hardworking public sector workers in 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u25	Mr President! What confuses me is why, in the view of the government, it is the low-paid workers in the public sector, namely local carers and kindergarten teachers, who should bear the greatest burden of all these austerity measures. This week, Statistics Finland published a report on how the extension of working time has been implemented in different sectors,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u28	Madam President! I would like to repeat once again how the government has compensated it for a public sector employee who earns EUR 2500 a month. If the employee has been employed for less than 15 years, then the monthly earnings have increased by EUR 2 per month, even if this were calculated as government duties. If you have been working for more than 15 years and you earn 2500 euros a month, the negative impact is 2 euros a month. So this is the whole thing we're talking about. We have also compensated with tax reductions for this cut in holiday money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u29	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, there were going to be a gap between 100,000 unemployed and an increase in debt. That way we will not be able to secure welfare services, we will not be able to respond to the pension promise, we will not be able to meet the education promise, we will not be able to secure public jobs. This change, which has now taken place — already 40,000 new jobs, the economy is growing — is absolutely essential for the Finnish welfare society. The Centre is in favour of a contractual society. I can tell that the demos are about to give it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u30	Mr President! This product of Finland's contractual society, competitiveness, is praised in the world. Finland is at a very different rate of growth than the other euro countries are now on average. We are therefore growing more rapidly than the average countries in the euro area, and this is because we have been able to take measures that have improved employment. This action, which has been taken, is for the benefit of the unemployed. There were 100,000 more unemployed last season. This period has seen a reduction in the number of unemployed between 40000 and 50 000, and the contribution of the Competitiveness Pact plays an important role in this — it plays an important role in this as a whole. It's not the only thing that works. The government has taken a huge number of measures with the overall impact of this situation, where we are now: the balance of public finances, tax cuts, we have been able to compensate for it at the level of family life, exports draw.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u31	Mr President! After all, the Competitiveness Pact was about making a significant transfer of income from employees to employers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u34	Mr President! Yes, we do. That's why we've concentrated tax cuts on low and middle incomes. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u35	Mr President! You have proved here many times in the past that you had no role in the negotiations. Now the Prime Minister just said in his speech that this was the role. This really happened on Monday when EK's CEO, Häkämies, said to the public — this is a quote: "We had a model in these negotiations where it would have touched everyone. But once again, as far as the public sector is concerned, there was a strong message from the government that there should be something extra, and now it is this holiday allowance cut." This is an important piece of information that we all have now. Now we know that the employee side is prepared to remedy this. The employer side is also prepared to remedy this. Mr Government, can you at least have a little heart to give these public sector workers a message that we can together remedy this unfair situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u36	Madam President! First of all, I do not recognize the way in which the competitiveness pact was built. I don't recognize you. There were alternatives — just as the Prime Minister described here — and the labour market organisations chose the tools by which they fulfilled this role in this competitiveness pact. The Government has done its part with significant tax relief measures, which seem to be doing the ordinary Finnish job in the pocket of a low-paid person. That's the government's share. It is hundreds of millions in size, and that is how we compensate for this loss. But once again I would like to say that there is no way for us to have such a wide public sector with such splendid services and professional people without having a high level of employment. You still don't understand it, even though we've been talking about it here for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u39	Next question, Congressman Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u40	Mr President! According to the Government Programme's entry, any further reduction in income tax applies to all income categories and to pensioners with a focus on low and middle incomes. This is an excellent principle which would increase purchasing power for low-income wage earners and pensioners. However, when drawing up the tax tables for next year, the government has in practice forgotten, especially those receiving a small earnings-related pension. In the Government's income tax proposal, the income tax of employees earning EUR 8000 per month will be reduced by more than EUR 400 per year, the income tax of pensioners with a lower earnings-related pension will be reduced by a maximum of EUR 10 per year. At the same time, the government's proposal would increase the inequality in the taxation of low-income pensioners and employees, which we Finns do not accept. Mr President! I ask the Minister for Finance: is the government not interested in the survival of those receiving a small pension, or has their affairs just been forgotten in the middle of all the other rush?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u41	Mr President! Firstly, when a tax decision was made for this year, it was first ensured that the taxation of any earned income was not tightened. It was 157 million for pensioners, which was allocated to this year to ensure that the taxation of pension income was not tightened. Now that we have made a tax decision for next year, we are still starting to assume that the taxation of anyone's income will not be tightened. It's very close. It has several different instruments for seeking this solution, but virtually no one is blackmailing. Of course, when it is done in such a way that we try to get as close as possible to zero in this tightening or lightening, then the amount of euro in smaller incomes will be lower. Here's the deal. But the point is that no one's taxation will be tightened. This has been the central guiding principle of the government's tax policy when it comes to making this budget. And let me remind you that in the past we have made EUR 500 million — half a billion —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u42	Well, then, I would ask the representatives who would like to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u43	Mr President! Finland is committed to reducing poverty internationally. In the fight against poverty, it is also very important to address pensioner poverty. It is often impossible for pensioners to increase their own income, and many have to calculate each euro very accurately before the next day of payment. True Finns want to pay particular attention to the increase in the necessary cost of living. The increase in the lower and upper limits of the property tax proposed by the government and the tightening of the heating fuel tax are most painfully felt in the purse of low-income people. Minor income tax reductions for small pensioners are far from sufficient to compensate for the increase in these necessary expenditures. Mr President! Many people receiving a small pension have made a long and respectable career in hard but low-paid work, where there has been no savings. Is the government going to help them? How the Government also reacted
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u44	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that the government has decided on two occasions to raise and increase the guarantee pension, which has been tried to make a precise contribution to the most low-income pensioners. However, this big line of tax policy, which I think your question was about: our main line is that we are trying to shift the focus from taxes on work and enterprise to indirect taxation, i.e. the taxation of harmful effects, such as these tax evasions on fossil fuels in this context and the tax evasion of 100 million on tobacco taxation. These tax increases will be able to finance the fact that the taxation of labour and pension income is not tightening. This is a major structural change that is being made with determination. It is a good policy, because it supports working, accepting work, trying, employing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u45	Mr President! As Minister Orpo has just said, during this parliamentary term, the government has quite laudably taken care of the affairs of the poorest pensioners, and guarantee pensions have been raised. What has not been taken care of is then the smallest of all occupational pensions. The Coalition Party, Mr Zyskowicz in particular, often says here that whoever rises to the cashier of Alepa in the morning must make better money than who does not rise, and I fully agree with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u48	Mr President! Of course, by one minister they will certainly not rise, and here and now I am unable to make such a promise. There will certainly also be a need for tripartite preparation and a broad working group. Certainly from the point of view of pensions and public finances, the public finance package, is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but here and now I cannot promise the representative when this will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u49	Madam President! This is where Mr Savio and the Finns of Peru paint a picture of the government's tax and income distribution policy, which I certainly do not recognize as the policy that has been pursued. When the guarantee pension increases, when tax reductions compensate people with low and middle incomes, for example, the holiday allowance cuts discussed in the previous question and, on the other hand, when, for example, the solidarity tax for the most high-income pensioners is explicitly maintained by this right-wing government, I do not in any way recognise the image described here by Mr Savio as the policy of this government. On the contrary, there is still a very high tax progression in Finland. And if, however, we in this Chamber are fairly united in our view that we must dismantle the income traps and that work should always be more profitable than idleness, then we will also want to reform and develop our tax policy accordingly. I would ask the Minister for Finance, Orpo, whether the government will continue to ensure that working in Finland will always be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u50	Madam President! Yes, it was an excellent speech and a question, [Laughter] Yes, the government intends to ensure, in accordance with the Government Programme, that the taxation of anyone's work does not increase. It is a consistent line of government work, because this country and this welfare is not built on anything other than doing work and trying to do it. Working and trying is based on well-being. High employment rate — that is the key. When we take care of these, Finland will also succeed in the future. If taxation and high taxation were the solution to welfare, we would probably raise taxation to a hundred, but that is not the solution. That's not the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u51	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u52	Mr President! "Finnish people are divided into successful and marginalised Thus headlined Helsingin Sanomat, published today in the Government's Internal Security Strategy. Exclusion is the biggest security threat in this country. People are increasingly and increasingly affected by their disadvantages. This country is divided in two. This is also the result of government action. The increase in income disparities and the increase in underprivileged earnings are the consequences of cuts in education, social security and the well-being of citizens. I therefore ask the minister concerned what concrete and urgent action this government is proposing to combat the division of our country into successful and marginalised people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u53	Madam President! Today, an internal security strategy was actually announced, and I am very proud of it because it is a kind of foundation for the work that we will do in the future for security. Finland is one of the safest countries in the world, and that is what we want it to be. And that is why we want everyone to stay with us. One of the greatest challenges to internal security is exclusion and exclusion, which can affect anyone and any age at any time. We will do everything we can in the government by means of various means to keep everyone involved. And what is also important is that we as neighbors pay attention to its care and to helping one’s neighbor. You and I, May Aalto, are both strong and reliable as parents to young people. But all in all — and this is the case with all the various actions, such as these tax solutions, such as the organisation of education, such as all this — that work is the best social security. Schooling for young people,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u54	Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u55	Mr President! In particular, the proportion of young adults in the population at risk of exclusion is worrying. We can't afford any lost generation. According to the OECD, as many as one-fifth of Finnish men between the ages of 20 and 24 are unemployed and do not participate in education — even more than one-fifth. I too know such people; I assume that Minister Risikko also knows such people. Finland must be able to catch those who are falling. They do not lack will or will, they need encouragement and support, not a stick. I therefore ask the minister concerned whether the government intends to make a correction to its budget proposal in order to tackle the fall of young people from education and working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u56	Mr President! The government is very concerned about the exclusion of young people and the high number of young people who are not in education and employment, and it was also highlighted today in the internal security strategy presented by Minister Risiko. This is a priority that the government has put very strongly on the table, and we have a ministerial group with a number of government ministers, with joint efforts from various ministries to reduce exclusion. The best way to prevent exclusion is to help and intervene in time, and that is why we have an absolutely absolute course of early intervention and prevention. We need diverse, multi-professional services for children and families, which are currently being built through cooperation between, for example, OKM and STM. Then there is the need for a number of means on the education system side. The training guarantee has taken very strong steps forward, which means that young people will receive a place of education at a different level. And the next step will then be to prevent suspension by means of, among other things, vocational training reform. Adequate support, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u60	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that the new internal security strategy puts young people at the heart of the social exclusion process and wants to tackle this issue early. Last week in Tampere there was a very violent gang fight among young people, and unfortunately the police did not receive information from other authorities about what happened before the fight. If the police had been aware, this possible violent confrontation of minors could have been prevented. How does the government intend to support contacts and cooperation between different authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u61	Madam President! This is a very good question, because many times I too am asked how many police officers there should be, and when I always say that it is not the amount but also the cooperation that is being done with other authorities and the flow of information. If we want to prevent violence, terrorism or, for example, fights or acts of violence in Finland, the sooner we learn about them and can anticipate them, the better we will be able to deal with them. Of course, it is important now, in this situation, to pursue this situation. We have an Ankkuri model in every police station, where a multiprofessional team takes such delinquent young people, catches them and sets out to help them get on a good path to life from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u62	Madam President! In this strategy for internal security, the Government says that the main challenge for internal security is expanding and multi-faceted exclusion. Recognition of this is a very important point, and we all know that we must keep everything involved. But we must ask: why is the government doing the opposite? You have cut out a huge amount of detective youth work, you have scrapped the Youth Guarantee, you have cut out all levels of education. Do you think that this is a coherent policy for what you are doing, Ministers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u63	Mr President! Exclusion in Finland increased in those years, as resources for prevention of exclusion also increased. We have a wide range of shortcomings and defects in the system, and it focuses in particular on the fact that we do not have early enough support, i.e. preventive family services, early childhood education, versatile, multi-professional assistance when there is an emergency in a family, closer cooperation between maternity and early childhood education, basic education and the provision of support services from other professional sectors in situations where the child and young people need it. We must be able to reverse the focus on earlier and more preventive intervention. That is what we have in the government, for example, a programme of change in child and family policy, which has received a very welcome reception on the ground. Increase cooperation between schools and the social and health sector. Of course, we will also increase resources as soon as the economic situation allows, and in next year's budget they were already made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u64	Mr President! Of course, both corrective and preventive measures must be taken, and as corrective measures, for example, we have been putting in place for many years a programme of skills for young adults, which specifically addresses the very number of people who do not intend to be employed. However, it has now been cut off in the budget and I hope that it will be reconsidered. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Education: you are talking about the importance of early support. However, the most vulnerable children have remained in a different position in recent years, precisely because of the government's active decisions, and we have many cities, including Helsinki, who have decided not to operate on subjective day care. So have you explained what this lack of full-time support really means when we talk about early intervention among the most vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u65	Mr President! I will correct right from the outset: during the previous term of the government, a competence programme for young adults was created to the extent that the vocational education and training system was unable to serve this target group, that is, young adults who lack a secondary degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u70	Mr President! "What would save a youth in danger of That was the question that the Committee on Education heard years ago. I asked tens of the best experts in the country, and the answer was quite surprising and concrete: if there was one guy. What do I want to tell you with this? That it is not just a question of what politics can do, but of much more, of the value of society. We may be barking up a bit of the wrong tree if resources are being screamed out here — especially now that the government has fixed the funds for the youth work that is looking for, it has put a lot of stakes in this direction. But what tree do you want me to bark at? Policy reforms must be called for: stronger involvement of the third sector. And that is what I too ask: The Government's top project is a programme of change in child and family policy, which therefore combines services with schools, such as maternity clinic services, support services for families. Where are we, Minister Saarikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u71	Mr President! I think the questioner is quite right that we may have to look at this question not just at how much money we spend, but at how it is possible that a single family can receive the help of several dozen different professionals but no one looks at the whole or no one asks the family what they really need. And the main objective and core of the Government's programme of change in child and family policy is now that in each of the 18 future regions, family centre thinking is now being prepared, which creates a multiprofessional competence around the maternity clinic, both on the issues of families requiring special support and on the other hand on the services of the low threshold in the third sector. Most certainly this can be achieved when the levels of government — the municipality of residence and the future province or ministries together — consider the same child and family as a whole, leaving school and early childhood education — which in fact meets every Finn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u72	Mr President! Knowing that Finland is divided in two, and knowing that this poses a major threat to internal security, public health, the economy, I will ask again and now direct the question to Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo: will the government make a correction to its budget proposal to tackle the fall of young people from education and working life? The government talks a lot of beautiful things about reforms that are certainly needed, but the government refuses to talk about money. This is about money, which is why I am addressing the Minister of Finance directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u73	Madam President! Apparently, he's a representative. Wave hasn't had time to get to know the budget proposal yet. There are a number of investments specifically to help young people at risk of exclusion, which Mr Grahn-Laasonen went through here, for example by increasing a thousand educational places and consolidating Ohjaamo activities and several other things. What is essential, however, and what should not be underestimated, are the major reforms to the education system: for example, secondary reform is a very big issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u76	Next question, Congressman Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u77	Mr President! We rarely ask about agriculture in this Chamber today, but now we ask when there is a case. Due to the cold and rainy weather, this year’s harvest forecasts seem to be worse than expected and, in addition, a significant part of the harvest seems to be unrepaired. According to the most conservative estimates, the financial value of this uncorrected crop is at least EUR 150 to 200 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u78	Madam President! Yes, I am. The questioner is quite right, and the arguments that have been heard here are absolutely true. We have a very difficult harvest situation and, in addition to that, we have a market situation, the profits are fairly poor, profitability is poor. That is why the government is also taking action to ensure that we have a balanced market and thus producer prices at a level that responds to the need for profitability and the increase in costs that farmers also face in the food chain. Only in this way will we be able to maintain profitable food production, domestic food production, which the whole hall wants unanimously. There is also a need for EU assistance and support for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u79	If there are any further questions on this subject, please register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u80	Talman! För att Finland också i framtiden ska ha en inhemsk livsmedelsproduktion måste vi förbättra jordbrukets lönsamhet, och det rai gör vi bland you give genom att stärka jordbrukarens ställning i hela livsmedelskedjan. Den besvärliga hösten och en skörd som riskerar bli kvar på åkern kräver att Finlands regering har beredskap att agera snabbt och kraftfult.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u81	Madam Speaker! The Food Markets Act, which has already been mentioned, is one of them, and in this context too, I would like to appeal to the parties on the food market to the effect that it is already being implemented on a voluntary basis, as the sector has wanted it to be. The second point is that we are also breaking standards in such a way that we are not at any point endangering food safety and related matters, not environmental management or animal welfare, but are dismantling those standards which cause and will cause costs. With regard to the loss of crops — which is now obvious, the loss of quality also — we have fewer and fewer elements to do these jobs. The crop damage law has been repealed. The insurance system that has come to this is not at all comprehensive at the moment. We also need elements for this. In addition to that, of course, the crisis package that was built last year has now been decided on the final solutions and how the money will be distributed. Exports have progressed and strengthened,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u82	Madam President! The viability of agriculture is certainly the most important challenge for the sector to tackle. An animal welfare law is currently being prepared, in which producers are also doing the most important and most important work to care for animal welfare. I would now like to ask the Minister how this legislative reform is going to ensure that the domestic producer does not incur excessive costs, but rather that there are sufficient incentives to ensure animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u83	Madam Speaker! We also have the current Animal Protection Act that works very well. It has ensured, among other things, that we, together with Sweden, use the least medicines in the world. It is an important indication of the state of animal welfare and of the level we have. Similarly, we have the cleanest foods in the world, including those of animal origin, which show that we know how to do these jobs. That is why the reform work carried out in the Animal Protection Act needs updating, it needs new things in many ways with new technologies and it also requires clarifications. And this work is being done. It constitutes a good whole in which we continue to improve animal welfare. But we do so in such a way that it is also possible in practice. These can well be combined in Finland, where official supervision is also at a very high level. This is something we can and want to hold on to in every way. But in the finals, that animal's well-being always depends on that person in the final analysis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u84	Next question, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u85	Madam President! The number of child welfare notifications has been increasing in recent years. In the 21st century, the number of detentions in Finland has almost doubled. It is particularly worrying that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of urgent investments made by young people. In many cities, the rise from last year is several dozen per cent. For example, nearly 500 urgent investments were made in Helsinki last year. There is a background to parental fatigue and poor financial situation, but the main causes are substance abuse and mental health problems and related domestic violence. I would ask the minister concerned: how do you intend to tackle this problem, and how do you promote the provision of preventive assistance to families covered by child protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u86	Mr President! This is a very important issue and, on the other hand, an unfortunate one. First of all, I would like to take up the part in which you referred to violence in close relationships and acts of violence in homes. The government has answered these questions by saying that, at last, with a substantial amount of funding that is increasing in Finland over the years, we are increasing the number of shelters. It's in the best interests of families. As far as this whole is concerned, your question refers very much to the same point as the previous observation that the government has now made a broad-based and up-to-date reform of the knowledge of the regions, which in itself could probably be called reform, which is based on the fact that the focus has actually been turned towards preventive services. It does not, however, remove the unfortunate number of families among us where the child protection declaration and the related measures are true. This question is therefore complex, because the local authorities have the power to provide resources on how social work is organised, and therefore multi-professional competence around social work is particularly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u87	Next question, Congressman Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u88	Mr President! This is a question for Minister Vehviläinen. Our country is becoming a city all the time, and it is also accompanied by strong migration. This is happening. But in some way in the social debate, the confrontation between cities and the rest of Finland is now becoming more acute. This debate is completely missing this theme of 100-year-old Finland together. The cities are in a strong position. They are needed for development, many ways develop in them. But it is equally important to note that the cities are often surrounded by industry, natural resources, logistics, tourism opportunities, and this whole, interaction and division of labour must work in such a way that our well-being develops. I'll ask Minister Vehviläinen: What's your message when they say today the C21s are gathering? What is your message to them in the development of industrial policy? And at the same time, what is the message to the more than 300 other cities and municipalities that have not received the invitation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u89	Mr President! Firstly, I am very curious about this meeting. I welcome the fact that different groups of municipalities, urban groups — large, small, of different sizes — gather together and reflect on their own objectives. I am also looking forward to constructive proposals for cooperation with the government, and I myself have been trying to focus on what the previous government and this government have done in the field of urban policy in recent days. But then I would also like to say what came out of the questioner's speech that such a confrontation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u92	Is there any desire to ask further questions on this subject?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u93	Mr President! Urbanisation is a global phenomenon, growth takes place in cities, and it is clear that when we talk about regional policy, it is important that we have metropolitan policy, urban policy and regional policy that understands the whole of Finland. But I believe that urban policy is still an unused resource. In several government terms, Parliament has received a report on urban policy and metropolitan policy. Now that this historic major reform is being carried out and we are talking about regions and it is still a little unclear to the Finns what their relationship is with the cities where growth is taking place, is it possible for the Prime Minister to give Parliament a report on urban policy with a strong role in metropolitan policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u94	Mr President! It is quite a long time since the previous urban policy report or other document has been on the table. I welcome the fact that there is also a debate in this Chamber on urban policy and, as I said, in my vision — and I believe that the whole government agrees — it is important that we have strong provinces and strong cities. So that's how a strong Finland is built. When I referred to the fact that I have done a study of the responsibilities of the various ministries and ministers with regard to urban policy, there is a great deal of it: It is coordinated by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The Ministry of the Environment has a major role to play in the MALs — land use, housing and transport — and it is for this decade that good decisions have been taken in which the capital region and then others who join this MAL agreement are properly represented. Next week, the network of regional cities will leave me with a presentation on how to develop regional cities. That's exactly what this is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u95	Fru Talman! Det är ett oerhört viktigt tema. Vi borde också diskutera hur de mindre stadsregionerna ska klara sig i det rai landet, och just nu för regeringens politik oss i en riktning som inte är bra. Man skär ner när det gäller sjukhusnätverk, man går åt den statliga förvaltningen och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u96	Mr President! The questioner is absolutely right, and when I referred to the fact that next week I will be handed over to me a report by liquidator Antti Rantakolle on this subject, I am well aware of it in advance, or I know that there will be almost 50 towns in the region that are of enormous importance to its environment. Many of them have also been strong industrial cities, the forest industry has been huge and also the metal industry, that is, they have a lot to offer and they will be, as long as we see those statistics, quite significant, also in terms of what they produce from Finland's gross domestic product at the moment. I look forward to those presentations. Then, as a government, we will look into what comes out of it, but we will see them next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u97	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u98	Mr President! The Government proposes that the foreign law be updated by creating a new residence permit basis for the growth entrepreneur, the so-called start-up entrepreneur. In addition, the scope of the residence permit for entrepreneurs would be changed. Thirdly, the period of validity of the residence permit for specialised experts entering the employment relationship would be extended. And on the fourth, let's make the extension phase faster and easier for everyone. Today, the Finnish business field is increasingly international. This proposal is basically about Finland's competitiveness. Finland also needs international experts to bring innovation and jobs. There is fierce international competition for international talent, especially for growth entrepreneurs. A smooth system of residence permits is one of the conditions that must be in order. It is clear that the residence permit system itself does not attract experts, but the residence permit system is an important part of this. In order to improve Finland’s competitive conditions, we need not only smooth residence permit practices but seamless and coordinated service packages. These are needed for both experts and companies. It also involves a diverse and dynamic labour market and successful land image communication. It is also not appropriate to forget the possibilities for family members to find employment or to integrate in this country in general. In this respect, a number of measures are already under way at both urban and regional level. Mr President! I will now go over the proposed amendments to the Aliens Act: First, there was talk of the permission of the growth entrepreneur. This would therefore be a new basis for residence permits. For growth entrepreneurs, it is proposed to set up a specific procedure to take account of the specific features of growth entrepreneurship. The aim is to give the entrepreneur who created or is starting a business in Finland a residence permit as soon as possible. Lessons have been sought in the preparation of the proposal from other countries, particularly Denmark. According to international models, a business assessment would not be carried out by a residence permit authority; this task would instead be given to a better-informed growth company, Tekes. The selection of Tekes is supported by its nationality and knowledge of growth enterprise activities. The emphasis would be on the idea and the person, the business model and the personal competence of the entrepreneurial team. In addition, the business conditions will be assessed. Attention will be paid to the market situation, international demand potential and market forecast, and the assessment will also cover the expertise and experience of the entrepreneurship team. After a business assessment, the procedure would proceed as quickly as possible and the Finnish Immigration Service would no longer carry out its own assessment of business activities, as Tekes would have done so. The Finnish Immigration Service would issue a residence permit if Tekes' assessment was positive. A residence permit would be granted directly for two years. It would then be possible to renew the residence permit. The conditions for a residence permit have been considered for both the first permit and the extension permit. The scheme would not require the company to remain unchanged, since growth activity is characterised by continuous development and reorientation. Of course, there are two reasons for following this proposal closely: this is a completely new opening. Secondly, it is a dynamic and continuous operating environment. By the way, there was an excellent article about this today in Helsingin Sanomat, we talked about coders, that is, how such specialists are willing to get to Finland from international arenas. But then, Mr President, this proposal would also update the scope of the residence permit for non-growth entrepreneurs. In practice, a change in the foreign law on a trader would mean that a residence permit based on entrepreneurship could also be granted in the form of limited liability companies. Currently, a residence permit can only be granted on the basis of entrepreneurship to a fully personalised responsible trader, i.e. a business name, for example. At the same time, the name of the current residence permit of the trader would be changed to the residence permit of the entrepreneur. Mr President! The establishment of specialist experts in Finland would be facilitated by granting the first residence permit for two years directly instead of the current one year. This would, of course, require a permanent or permanent employment relationship of at least two years. A legal amendment would take into account the entire family moving here. Consequently, family members of specialist experts would also receive a residence permit for two years instead of a normal one year. In addition to the proposed legislative amendment, the authorisation procedure for specialist experts has also been developed in many other ways in recent years. The government has received a lot of feedback from companies in this regard, and I can only say that the feedback received has been carefully read and changed. Some of these have been specifically the development of processes, and communication has also been developed, e-services and even procedures. The Finnish Immigration Service understands that specialists often come to positions where a person should be admitted as soon as possible if they do not want the whole project and thus other jobs to be compromised. The aim is therefore to resolve the applications as quickly as possible. Of course, moving to Finland is already a complex question. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, I have also moved this message forward to other sectors. But, Mr President, that is not all: the system of residence permits would also be streamlined in the case of the extension phase. The Aliens Act would be amended so that no new fingerprints would be collected for the permit extension, when they do not usually change. In practice, this would mean that it would be possible to complete the extension phase by electronic means without visiting the customer service point of the Finnish Immigration Service if the applicant uses strong electronic identification. The residence permit card would be manufactured with fingerprints issued in connection with the first residence permit. The Finnish Immigration Service would still retain the possibility of inviting the applicant and taking fingerprints again, if there is a particular reason for this, for example, from a supervisory point of view. The proposed amendment would apply to all residence permits, not just specialist experts. However, I have already heard that a more easy procedure is expected, especially in companies operating internationally. Their employees travel a lot and therefore find it difficult to reserve time for personal services at the office of the Finnish Immigration Service. In addition to making the extension phase easier, this change would also reduce the administrative burden. This, in turn, would mean that unproblematic licence applications can be dealt with more quickly and more thoroughly. So all sides win. Mr President! The fact that we promote the entry of foreign experts and entrepreneurs is not out of the question. With their own expertise, they bring a positive momentum to the Finnish business field, even though not all business ideas will, of course, be a national success story. With this proposal, then, the Ministry also shows that we are promoting entrepreneurship and thus job creation. Entrepreneurship carries Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u99	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for once you can praise the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u106	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Risikko for the excellent presentation that has now been brought to Parliament. At the beginning of next year, a foreigner may receive a residence permit on the basis that he is a owner or employee of a start-up company, and in this proposal a foreigner would submit an application to the State Tekes, who would then assess whether this startup has potential for an international growth company and also for a successful business, and then, on the basis of that statement by Tekes, a residence permit would proceed to the Finnish Immigration Service and so on. In fact, my own speech focuses on this point that we need to do this as a factor in this assessment. The role of Tekes in this proposal has been justified, inter alia, by its national authority role and also by the fact that Tekes has strong expertise in start-up activities. On the other hand, you may ask whether this expertise could also be found in a lighter way. In this proposal, which is good and worthy of support, the model may have been sought more from Denmark when it might also be possible to consider whether the Estonian model could be more effective in this respect. In Estonia, for example, the business plan is assessed by entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurial community, and it may well be asked whether we in Finland too can rely on the expertise and evaluation of entrepreneurs in this area. On the other hand, the good thing about this proposal is that in future the Finnish Immigration Service will no longer assess business activity at all, which is a significant improvement in this respect. Last spring, delegates Juhana Vartiainen and Elina Lepomäki took a stand on this issue when the proposal was in the draft phase, and then they were concerned that this authorisation might be too slow. Personally, I would like to believe that these presentations and the corrections that have been made to this proposal have made it shorter for the half of the year that was then spoken of. I would be happy to hear from Minister Risiko that what is the timetable for doing these things so that the model does not become too heavy. In addition to our country, residence permits issued on the basis of the creation of a start-up company are available in 12 different countries in the EU and, according to experts, in these countries, where similar legislation has already been used, it has been possible to attract dozens, even hundreds, of growth companies every year. In this context, Elina Immonen, a leading expert at the Ministry of the Interior, said very well that even one new successful international growth company is so positive to the economy that this change should be made. That is well said, and I personally believe that these growth companies and new players will not just remain together, but will become more. Mr President! Another positive feature of this proposal is that a residence permit could also be granted in the future for a limited liability company business. To date, the residence permit could only be granted to a fully personalised trader. This is a significant improvement in the past. This facilitation of further authorisation, which would take place electronically in the future after a two-year break, would also be justified. However, when I referred to the Estonian model, I would like to see the positive things that Estonia has used in the committee reading perhaps also being weighed up. After all, Estonia has a short-term start-up visa and a five-year residence permit combined with it, and it allows a foreigner to operate and work in an Estonian growth company. Estonia promises a start-up visa in a month and a residence permit in two months, and the biggest concern now is whether this model of ours is too heavy. In other words, whether these permits can be obtained through a two-step discussion, whether it will take days, weeks or months — this is actually the question that I will leave to think about at the end of my speech, and I am happy to hear the Minister's assessment of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u107	Ladies and gentlemen! Let us make a few speeches — the representatives of the various groups happen to be in the right direction — and, after they have spoken more or less from all the groups, there will be a small debate if there is still a need to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u108	Mr President! In the Government's proposal, the foreign law would be amended so that a foreigner who establishes or has established a growth company in Finland can receive a residence permit on that basis. Contrary to what the media and political opponents like to claim, the Finns of Peru are not against immigration as such, all immigration. We are opposed to poor immigration, which means that people from abroad are coming here, usually using the asylum system, to enjoy our generous social security. Genuine entrepreneurs and self-supporters can be welcome even in our country. Now, however, I am concerned that the possibility of using a residence permit through start-up entrepreneurship in some way would be hidden in this potentially valid proposal. Is it possible for a person to gain access to Finnish social security by setting up some kind of bark boat company or coder bus, which is not really intended to produce anything other than a residence permit for the applicant? Are we here to create another social immigration instrument a little back way? I am a little concerned about those speeches by Mr Heinonen that Mr Tekes' assessment of the residence permit should be deleted. It is the least that the basis of the residence permit and the authenticity of the business are assessed by an objective operator, unless there are any income limits or equivalent to ensure that this business is not a cover or a means of access to social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u109	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u110	Mr President! That's why I knew it was my turn. In two years, you've learned a lot here. Mr President! Minister, this government proposal is well-founded. If, in fact, I were to begin a presentation on the general picture of work-related immigration: For a long time in this Chamber, we have been going over this issue of immigration many times, and it is now good to distinguish between work-related immigration and humanitarian immigration in this debate. After all, the starting point for humanitarian immigration is always the need for an applicant, whereas the starting point for work-related immigration is the need for society. And now that we look at this proposal and the situation we have in Finland, it is true that we need more foreign experts and hopefully more foreign start-ups. The examples of other countries, when mirrored here, make sense — although no change in legislation in itself will probably draw any growth companies — to facilitate, simplify and speed up the process by which a foreign startup company can enter Finland and start its operations. Then maybe a few details. First of all, this role of Tekes: It must be clear that it is worth making an assessment of what kind of business activity is then scalable, what kind of business has innovation potential and what kind of business really has a fast chance of internationalisation and also growth potential. If you can't do it in Finland, Tekes, there's hardly anyone who can do it. That is why, in this situation, we must hope that Tekes will also have the resources and the resources in the future, so that they can effectively carry out this new task. Then perhaps as a comment on what has just been said, where Mr Heinonen, for example, took a position on whether we should go to this Estonian model, where the evaluation will be carried out there too, and there is a committee of experts such as this, which will make the same assessment as then in Finland Tekes would do. I would prefer, however, that we have an independent body which makes this assessment, rather than simply consisting of entrepreneurs who have already worked here. I'm a little afraid that maybe those entrepreneurs don't always want competitors here. That is why it makes sense that it is the Tekes evaluation and they will then make a statement on it. Well, then, from these other changes in general, I can say that it makes perfect sense to facilitate the residence permit for specialist experts, firstly to extend the first permit from one year to two years and to facilitate the application for a further permit, but also to facilitate the admission of family members to Finland. And when we talk a lot about this attracting foreign experts and specialist experts to Finland, then it is those issues that are at the centre of the issue than just the process of residence permits. We'll talk about whether or not they'll get their family. It is then discussed whether family members, the spouse may find work, services for family members. I have been delighted to welcome the development that has now emerged, for example, in the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, that in the future there will also increasingly be English-language municipal services, as this is a genuine condition for us to be able to attract foreign experts as well. All in all, the proposal is well-founded, and it is also justified to go through this very carefully in committee and perhaps look at some of these details, some nuances, whether there may be a place for updating there. But all in all, I welcome this with joy that we attract even more foreign experts and companies to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u111	Mr President! I also welcome this proposal. I think this is very safe, too, because we already have a number of countries in the European Union where growth entrepreneurs have their own residence permit procedures. It is assumed that this would not mean a very broad route to Finland, perhaps a few dozen per year, as estimated in this government proposal. But from the point of view of entrepreneurship and growth companies, I do consider this to be an important reform. I would also like to point out that we have tens of thousands of foreign students in Finland, including degree students. When they learn a Finnish language during their studies, in any case, they get to know Finland, it would be very welcome if many of them could perhaps find an opportunity for entrepreneurship in Finland and thus be able to stimulate Finnish business. I would consider this a possible way for these foreign students to stay in Finland as a growth entrepreneur after the end of their studies, because at the moment our permit legislation does not allow this. But in the same direction, Mr President, there would also be a reduction or even elimination of the availability exercise, a bill which is still under way here in Parliament and which has a lot of support. I would now like to ask Minister Risiko how the government has discussed this abolition of access.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u112	One last speech to Mr Hoskonen, and if there is a short debate after him, then that will be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u113	Mr President! I think this amendment to the foreign law is appropriate at this time. We must remember that these start-ups are the most typical companies in the gaming industry or in mobile applications, which are quickly created when the market is really hot today. Indeed, when a young man or woman in the gaming industry, for example, comes up with a good idea, as we have seen in Finland, a few transnational companies have been born today, and they require extraordinary gifts from those who have them. In my opinion, it is worth changing the law on foreigners in that regard, of course, that such cases are actually made to work and, above all, to add value to Finnish society. Of course, there may always be minor problems with all the rules governing the application of the law, that someone may even abuse them, but I do not think so. However, control is always involved, so this is not an open situation; on the contrary, everything is controlled and carefully reviewed. But it should be remembered that such computer companies, for example, are companies that are born very quickly, there is extraordinary intelligence in people, and there is also a need to open the way for such opportunities. Of course, there is another fact to remember. In other European countries, neighbours, EU countries, these opportunities have already been exploited. In fact, we are not the first to move on this, but rather we are a little behind. But careful consideration will be given to the good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to have a small debate, I would now ask those Members who wish to use this kind of debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u115	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Yanar for the excellent Government proposal and for raising two points based on the Government Programme guidelines, namely the refugee quota and the need for a foreign labour force. These have been outlined in the Government Programme, and in my opinion the government respects it and according to it goes, there is nothing more wonderful about it. As far as tuition fees are concerned, I understand that many of them are also supported by the principals in Finland and in the industry, which means that I consider it important that tuition fees are — and have been in the government programme as well — but that they are considered reasonable, i.e. not to go into too much business in that sense. As far as this proposal is concerned, I very much welcome, as chairman of the Parliament's Game Club, what Mr Hoskonen here also pointed out, that these companies are generally creative businesses, for example in my hometown of Espoo, and when I visited this local company, the only thing they asked the government to do was to facilitate these residence permit practices for these working people, their families, and this is what this government is doing. The importance of the English language was also highlighted here, and in Espoo, for example, a decision was made that the English language should become one of the official languages used, so that it will become a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u116	Mr President! With regard to this proposal, it can be said that this is in line with the golden rule of work-related immigration, in which work-related immigration must really leave the need for society first and foremost, but also work-based immigration is controlled. That is why we have a system by which we can achieve the result that we ourselves have defined here. This is also the case in all other EU and OECD countries as well. Perhaps I cannot help but say to them now who is involved in this question of access, which is not part of this issue in itself, that it is perhaps a little strange now if, on the part of the worker's residence permit in general, we are opposed to the issue of availability, but then we are prepared to support the same type of needs test done by Tekes in this start-up residence permit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u117	Irade the Talman! It is great indeed that this matter is being taken forward, but it may be appropriate to ask whether it is now in its best form. I think it is clear that Finland needs international companies more than they need Finland, and we need to be an attractive and easy country. It's got to be easy to come here. Mr Heinonen's question was whether it would be reasonable for Mr Tekes to assess them. It has rightly been asked whether it would create a conflict if Tekes were to finance a particular company and come to the same sector to act on whether or not Tekes' interest would then be to grant this authorisation. I think that this should be assessed. Instead, if companies assess this among themselves, I think it is a better way. I do not believe that anyone in Silicon Valley is concerned that there are so many companies there and would have liked to have been limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u118	Mr President, let us not go much further than that agreed minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u119	Mr President! I'm not going in this minute to make room for why I'm against something. But I would like to point out that this is in itself something to be welcomed, but I would like to see that, in the context of this legislation, the control resources are also such that it can be verified that there are not, as is currently the case, special experts from us who are working for EUR 3000 per month, with daily allowances, kilometric allowances and so on, and that the real salary is far from what the EU Blue Card currently requires, for example, EUR 4500 per month. So it is hoped that there will be control and that this, let us say, trampling on specialists, experts in this country will then, at the same time, be curbed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u120	Mr President! The presentation says that a typical example is a foreign student who has previously resided in the country with a student permit. I'm sure it's all right that if you study here, you stay here, you learn a language and you can certainly bring something new. But I myself am concerned that this is not only intended to compensate for the abandonment of the need-tested exercise in any form, because this proposal also states that 'a residence permit could also be granted on this basis in situations where a person has already resided in a country on some other basis'. For example, if a person applies for asylum knowing that he cannot, but then set up a cleaning company, then does Tekes think that this kind of firm is a sufficient basis? It is precisely because we do not want a maid society in Finland and the workers in the low-wage sectors would suffer enormously if there were too much competition in the low-wage sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u121	Mr President! This proposal seems quite good and worthy of support, but I also stayed a little longer to think about these practical patterns. So the fact that foreigners who have studied in Finland and who are here, stay here and, for example, initiate a start-up company is a very good and worthwhile thing. But for example, if someone in the country x thinks that you could come to Finland and there is such an opportunity to set up a growth company, start-up up, will he come to Finland with what kind of document, except his passport, and will he then present his start-up plan here and get an estimate from Tekes or possibly in some situation even before crossing the Finnish border? Is it possible, then, to make these processes from the countries of origin? That when you come to Finland, what is the basis on which you come to Finland and whether you will then possibly present at the border that the reason why you come to Finland is to start a startup company? This is what I'm going to do if you're going to do
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u122	Mr President! There is also a dimension here that should be mentioned: this brain drain. In Finland, it is always said that when skilled people leave Finland, they have received good education and then suddenly benefit from it from a French industrial company or a British or someone else. Now, in a way, we are doing a little bit of a backfire on it, because if someone from that far-off world has been trained here and then suddenly comes up with some brilliant idea, then you have to open the door for him to be able to start that business here. It must be remembered that these computer companies are such companies that when the company is leaving Finland, there is nothing more to do about it than to take a backup and put the computer on hold and a backup in the pocket, and then the company has gone into traffic and goes where it goes. That is why it is good that these procedures are made more flexible, but we must always remember the old truth that we always have to control that no free market can be created. For those who benefit Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u123	Mr President! One aspect of this proposal, Minister, is that students can stay here. It is a great thing that it has been realized that students who have studied in Finland are useful to us. But what you do on the one hand, or did last year, was these tuition fees in the Eta and EU regions, and they are already limiting this pool. So you can't be a student here unless you pay a lot of money, so that pool is kind of limited at the start. On the other hand, you want those who have come here to stay here. Is there not a lack of consistency here? I'd assume it is. And I might also ask: when can we get more information about this change, how has it affected the number of applicants, how has it affected the people receiving the study place? It would give us more data on whether this government was doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u124	Mr President! This is probably the first time in the history of this Parliament that I can say that I agree with Mr Yanar on immigration policy, in relation to what he said about this very government proposal which we are now dealing with. So this is exactly the kind of immigration we need here in Finland, what this government proposal is perhaps trying to increase. We should be more like sports clubs, as I have said before: if the KTP basketball team purchases from abroad, it will take a player who will score at least 20 points in about every game and is as if better than our domestic players. And now Finland acts the way sports clubs do and should do. Which means there's going to be a kind of immigration that will strengthen you. Well, here are these duubies, such as Mr Mäkelä and Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u125	Mr President, Mr President! What Mr Eerola said about basketball is, of course, close to my heart. But I would remind you of someone named Darryl Parker. Who's Darryl Parker? He is Joensuun Kataja’s Yankee reinforcement in the 1990s, which was beaten with a hot dog kiosk in such condition that he went home. In other words: the treatment of asylum seekers in Finland and the general attitude towards foreigners influences how attractive this Finland is in the eyes of the immigrants whom you accept and support. This is something you should remember. It is the responsibility of all of us to maintain a culture in which a person who is in a hot dog shop does not begin to distinguish whether he is a Nokian engineer or an asylum seeker. And this one has
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u126	This point was just opened up by Mr Eerola, to which Mr Yanar, who has asked for a reply, I admit it, and then to Mr Eerola, and then move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u127	Mr President! Mr Haraka's speech was excellent. This is an issue that is widely raised, and the general attitude climate has an impact on Finland's attractiveness, which also affects this. But I would also like to comment on the fact that I think that the talk about this kind of harmful immigration is quite wrong and really sad. Every person who comes here is an individual. None of us would want to be treated as a mass, so let's not treat anyone as a mass. People come here for different reasons. I can teach you a lesson about how to get here, there are a few ways to do it: work, education, refugeeism and so on. I have come to this country through family ties at the age of 14, and here I have been chosen at the age of 27. If, in a way, I am put in a basket that makes me an immigrant or something like that, it is absurd and inconceivable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u128	Reply, Mr Eerola, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u129	Mr President! It is quite easy to say that I am on the same front with Mr Haraka that no one, no one, had come here for any reason, should not be beaten in a hot dog shop or in any other place, for the sake of skin colour or for any other reason. I say, however, that if we had all the immigrants who come here to us, the generation of immigrants who improve this society, it is quite clear and obvious that we would not have any sort of racism problem here at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u131	Mr President! There are a few questions here, among other things, as to why Tekes would be involved. [President : 2 minutes, Minister! ] It is true that international solutions from those who carry out business assessments vary. We have seen that the activities are most natural for the authorities and even for the national ones. Tekes is a key player in promoting public innovation funding and innovative growth entrepreneurship in Finland. This is in favour of its proposed role in assessing the business plan of growth companies applying for a residence permit, and in Denmark the task has also been assigned to the authority responsible for Tekes. Focusing the assessment on a single public operator and a country-wide operator would also allow for ensuring equality and impartiality aspects. Based on its experience, Tekes could reasonably quickly assess the feasibility of the business plan of growth entrepreneurs applying for a residence permit. If the assessment were then considered necessary in the future to involve other public and private actors in the growth business field more widely, this would be a very administratively light option, such as the creation of a steering group, which would monitor and assess the implementation and development of the process of residence permits for growth entrepreneurs. So this is also an opportunity. Then they asked about these times. Yes, this is an objective in both Tekes and Migri, that we should aim at a few weeks of processing, not months, as was proposed here for six months, certainly not six months. This is also not a way of getting in here for some specific reasons or something else, because it will be carefully assessed. There's no way that Tekes is the kind of people who look the other way. Yeah, they're gonna look real close, and they're gonna follow the situation. However, Finland has quite good control over these types of issues, and it is also possible to assess among entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u132	Let's move on to the list of speakers. There are representatives here who have been waiting a long time for their own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u133	Mr President! This proposal for a residence permit on the basis of entrepreneurship is very much to be welcomed. There are some points of view and questions about this, and I would like the Minister to take a position on these. Firstly, it says this: 'The aim of the performance is to support entrepreneurship and thus economic growth by means of foreign law'. It is a very good starting point — the entrepreneurial spirit, which has been one of the main policies of the government during this parliamentary term — to promote opportunities for entrepreneurship both for the general population and now for foreigners in this proposal. Then it says: 'The proposed regulatory changes are intended to promote economic growth and employment through entrepreneurship and the smoother migration of experts'. And, of course, this proposal is now clearly targeted in such a way that it sends the message that the experts are welcome in Finland. It is a clear priority here, and it may give rise to a debate that Finland wants only immigrants who are already educated and skilled, and then all other immigrants will try to get out of here in some way. I am not saying that this is the way it is, but there may be a question like this for a lot of people who read this, and what about me, who is not capable of being a talent when I come here for some reason. What is very good about this is that those who are now studying in Finland are also given the opportunity to stay here, and that human capital would be used by Finland. I was at this kind of event for young Finnish experts under the age of 35, where seven people stood on the estrada, all multimillionaires, young friends, and they were asked the question: What is the biggest obstacle to the growth of their company in Finland? Everyone laughed at me at the same time and said the Finnish State. They spend 50% of their working time looking for experts, and when they find them, it is almost impossible to get them to Finland. I would now like to ask the Minister: This applies now only to people who are prepared to start a business, and here, in the second paragraph, it is said that 'based on investment in companies operating in Finland'. Is this, then, just a very narrow group of people, those who are able to invest in companies or those who are able to start a business here? What about those recruitable people who could enter existing companies, what will be their situation in the future? I would have asked the Minister if there was going to be any change. I understand that this motion does not allow room for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u134	Mr President! It is clear that Finland needs work-related immigration, and it is clear that Finland needs growth companies. This bill combines these two elements and is, in that sense, very welcome. The argument that we need these things lies in our age structure. Even if it comes to Finland with what a record in Finland –a baby boom – it will not make it to this panic, and even if we have a major shift in work — robotisation, digitalisation and technological change — it will not, or at least I do not believe it will make it to this panic, but we also need human labour and we need experts in this society above all, from us, from the People's Republic of Finland as well as from the rest of the world. But for Finland to be attractive, it is exactly as Mr Harakka said: it is a climate of society as a whole. It is a question of how we react to differences in general, how we react at all to the fact that someone has a background in another religion, ethnic group or other. It's about the whole thing. In that sense, it is worth remembering that a first-class expert does not come here as a second-class citizen. No, even if it is paid hard wages in that company if that second-class citizenship is realised in the streets and restaurants and elsewhere in everyday life. From this model: I personally see that when this is the part of Tekes... - I think it'll be over a few minutes. [ The speaker moves to the podium] When this is the part of Tekes, it may actually be one of the attractiveness factors, because when people who set up a business first encounter an environment where they have business expertise, compared to the fact that they first encounter immigration authorities, for example, it can be the route through which solutions can be found to things that are not necessarily found in this so-called normal route of ours. In that sense too, I believe that this is our own good means-tested element, in which we believe that what we need in Finnish society is what we need, because it is not a question of humanitarian action, but it also has flexibility in this process. I would like to see the same elements that are here from the point of view of this flexibility brought to our other licensing processes, be it a student who is here and wants to stay here and work, or a person who comes, for example, from work and has been here. If we are thinking of the seasonal labour directive and the ict arrangements that are currently in place in this house — I am not quite sure whether there is already a committee outside the actual committee — then it is actually thought that it is three months that the seasonal worker's permit process can take. That's a really long time. That's the end of the season. On the other hand, it is a question of doing long-term business and thinking that it will work quickly. I would hope that this same fast thinking will also be brought into these other licensing processes. As for the fact that we have been able to get here and the company has been founded, grew it or not: some will certainly grow and it will be good for all of us and success will take us forward, but what if it does not? Then we will also need those supporting elements. And if the family comes here — it is a good thing that it has been made flexible — then there is also a need for those supporting elements, because necessarily the spouse cannot automatically find work. I would also like these services to be able to be combined with those who come. Because when we had the previous IT boom and a lot of foreign IT workers came to Finland, the surprise came at the time when people had been here on relatively high-paid jobs, lived well and did well, but then when those jobs stopped, when that accident came to its own place, there was actually no language skills, there was no networks outside of the job, there was nothing that could have taken their lives forward when the risk came to an end. I would like us not to make these mistakes for anyone, because every person deserves some kind of service, some kind of support for getting into, say, language studies or others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u135	Let us take this debate for a while, Mr Harakka, with the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u136	Mr President! Mr Filatov's speech, which was very well-informed, contained a great wisdom which I would like to repeat immediately: the first-class expert does not want to be a second-class citizen in Finland. This is an absolutely essential observation. This reform is very welcome. Promoting the migration of experts, even attracting them, will be very important for Finland in the coming years. The demographic structure is rapidly becoming more disadvantaged, and without immigration, 300,000 people will disappear from the labour force by 2030. It is high time that we started a structured immigration policy that distinguishes between humanitarian and economic immigration. Economic immigration is always a means-tested issue: society sets the conditions and objectives. It must also be able to market itself effectively and at the same time take responsibility for ensuring integration, language training and integration. Last week, the delegation from the Committee on Finance visited Canada, which has a typical model of economic migration. In fact, there is a more stringent needs test than Finland, but there are several skills bypasses and there is a great deal of demand for them all over the world. There are many more willing visitors than the over 150,000 who received a permanent residence permit last year, for example. This is just over half of total immigration, where the proportion of asylum is about one-fifth and, interestingly enough, the proportion of family reunification is about one-quarter. In other words, Canada is investing in the family and place of new citizens in the community, networking and so on in the next generations. It's farsighted. But, as Mr Räsänen said, we should not confuse humanitarian and economic immigration. This family programme also applies to the spouses and children of migrants and experts, and this is the big deficiency that Finns should seriously respond to, as Mrs Filatov said. In other words, there are several routes of economic migration in the Canadian model, all of which provide scoring based on education, language skills and professional competence. The method is fully transparent. You can immediately see whether there are enough points and whether you need to start packing bags or how you need to improve your training or language skills in order to exceed the required number of points. Particular attention has been paid to staying in Canada for students. It is also commendable in this proposal that Finland also wants to send people who have completed a degree here. It is an incredible waste to let a young learner of the language, who knows the country, go willingly. So we need systematic immigration. But, Mr President, when you look out that window at this freezing rain, you have to ask how any expert would rather come to Finland, where the attitude towards immigrants is as freezing and immigration policy has been dictated by panic and slander, than Canada, which attracts foreigners to a functioning and planned community environment. In addition, the language here is difficult, English and French in Canada. And when we were in Ottawa, the temperature was over 30 degrees in late September. Finland should rapidly develop a proper marketing programme and support it with practical action. One practical problem arises very often in this debate: there are not enough English day care centres even in the capital region. So it is too rare to think about the whole family, even though it is much easier for the whole family to take root than it is for an individual, let alone a lonely person. As I said earlier, the whole treatment of asylum seekers is related to Finland's attractiveness. If a black person in Finland cannot move safely overnight, whether he is an asylum seeker or a start-up entrepreneur, Finland will not be able to compete for international talent. Economist Richard Florida has quite convincingly shown that general tolerance and innovation and economic growth are linked together. This startup visa, which has been in use in Canada for five years, has not been a miracle worker in itself. It has been a five-year pilot and it has been decided to continue. 500 people have been the annual target, i.e. a fair share of total immigration. Minister, I would therefore like to call for a broader programme to promote the migration of experts and for a number of supporting activities in this regard: those related to the community and networking, those related to families that Mr Filatov has just raised, and much more effective education in Finnish and Swedish. Could there be something like this coming? Finally, Mr President, if a government plans such a programme, you will have a social democrat partner, because we warmly support the migration of experts and a fair, tolerant and forward-looking society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u137	Mr President! A little has been discussed here about the atmosphere and the attitude toward other people, fellow humans. The programme of principles for the future of the Blue Future, our future party, states that "the population should show acceptance and love of neighbor to enterprising arrivals. No one wants to integrate into a country where they feel that they are despised or discriminated against." This is a blue line. It's in the program of principle. Mr Myllykoski raised the concerns about the fact that these experts are certainly specific experts, not just experts. Of course, its specific expertise should be reflected in the salary. But I think the answer to these concerns is a good one if we consider what our countries of comparison are. As far as the European Union is concerned, such a special residence permit procedure for growth entrepreneurs is in Great Britain, Ireland, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Denmark, France, Slovakia and Estonia. There are many countries here that are known, say, for a strict immigration policy, and yet they still have one. From countries outside the European Union Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Chile and Canada — including those which are considered to be the subject of a strict immigration policy. I do not see this as any kind of gateway to any kind of dumping of working conditions or Finnish working life, but, in particular, to the acquisition of specialists in companies that need it. I am in favour and have long supported the Canada-type scoring system raised by Mr Haraka, which is fine with me. But I would also like to ask the Minister if, when my own sister has lived in Israel for twenty years as a dual citizen and has now actually established a start-up entrepreneur, there would be a country which, however, is known internationally as a major power of start-ups, from which we could take legislative lessons and also learn about the spirit of that country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u138	Irade the Talman! First of all, congratulations to Mr Elon for putting together the cards. I hope I have misunderstood what Mr Eerola said to me so that he believes that Finnish racism depends on immigrants, that it is their fault. That's how I interpreted it, but I hope it was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u143	Mr President! On this point, perhaps a few comments have to be made which have been forgotten about my first, actual speech. The first relates to the fact that when we review this legislation on work-related immigration in Finland as a whole, we usually get the impression that we are somehow awfully strict about work-related immigration in Finland. When we look at the wider international field — the EU countries, the OECD countries — then we come to the conclusion that, in fact, Finnish labour immigration legislation is the most liberal from there. This brings us to the interesting question raised by Mr Harakka, for example, that it is not only about the legislation but also about the climate of society and how we show ourselves to the world and how the world sees us. We cannot change this by simply changing the law, and that is a good thing to remember. But, in fact, while the minister is still here, I would have asked a few more questions. The first concerns the further development of legislation. After all, we have now largely built foreign law piece by piece, and one might say that it is a bit puffed up like bun dough. In fact, reference has already been made here to the seasonal labour law, which is now being created as separate legislation. How does the Minister see the future of this legislation? It is certainly true at some point that there should perhaps be an overall reform of the foreign law, which would then also look at the different types of permits, and that it might also lead to a reduction in unnecessary bureaucracy and also in the application periods. And then, perhaps to this end, some people in this debate have now gone a little confused with the start-up residence permit and the residence permit for other entrepreneurs, so that they are now kept separate,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u144	However, ladies and gentlemen, when there are a few representatives here and the same representatives have both the actual speeches and the replies, we would now like to take the proper course of the speeches for some time, preferably with these two-minute speeches which have now been used. — In this way, Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u145	Mr President! I too think it is important that in this context only this government proposal on start-ups, which would be subject to such strict control of the authenticity of its business and its feasibility, should be discussed and would not be allowed to involve in this debate the elimination of labour needs, or, in particular, humanitarian immigration, which is of a completely different class. Of course, it would be nice and desirable for all of us if, with this change, new start-ups, IT companies, gambling companies were to be set up in the country, but we here in Parliament must be prepared not to set them up but to try to exploit this system and how we prevent it from being exploited. The first basic point is that this can under no circumstances be acceptable by means of strict needs testing. The second question is how to deal with social security. This residence permit is quite generous: 2 years of direct residence right. So what if this startup company goes down after six months? Is it the right to social security for a year and a half for the person in question who holds this residence permit? His family may have been granted a residence permit on the basis of this startup — will the family also receive social security for this year and a half in Finland? What are the economic effects of this entity if such phenomena occur?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u146	Mr President! Mr Risikko, there has been a good debate here today and we have been thinking about how we can attract experts here in Finland and start-ups. But I would like to ask you, Minister, when I know that you have raised these areas of the future in the past, such as geronomies. Years ago, you spoke for them, and we got the geronomists in the register, and I know you've done a lot of work there. But what about these coders, the coders that we lack in Finland? They are indeed needed, and then they will be lured here from abroad, even if we already have a whole generation of these IT experts here in Finland when they are trained. In Espoo, we have an information technology class in Saarnilaakso school — from seventh to ninth grade — where coding is taught, and there will be really good young people. But just one school in my hometown of Espoo is not enough for that either. In what way can we contribute to increasing the training of coders in Finland? Would you mind taking this matter and the idea and the idea forward because they are needed? Not only coders — there is also a need for information security professionals. Cybersecurity is where there is a screaming shortage of experts in Finland. It is good that we get professionals, experts, and it is important that when we get and find a good guy, we try to catch him in Finland. But, of course, as was raised during Question Time, among other things, this exclusion, we must take care of those learners who, for example, in this information technology, might be good and in such a way could be able to overcome this crying labour shortage — for example, coders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u147	Mr President! In fact, I asked for the floor when Mrs Huhtasaari spoke here, thinking that if we were to have reasons other than study, people who could then apply for a residence permit on the basis of a start-up attempt were obviously referred to, for example, asylum seekers who might have received a negative decision. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when asylum seekers receive a negative decision, they currently have the opportunity to apply for a work-related residence permit if there are conditions. We do have a lot of hardworking, skilled people here who, for example, would like to keep in their service and who can then apply for this residence permit. I think it is quite possible that we also have those who may have received a negative asylum decision, but then are inventive and innovative enough to be able to set up such a start-up company. At the same time, this route could well be used, and I do not see it in any way as exploiting the system, especially in view of this deficiency, which was highlighted in the previous speech, which means that we really do have a shortage of these codes. For example, this could be just the way some of these people can use it. However, this is not about large quantities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u148	I will give the floor to Mr Savilo and then to the Minister. He's got other things to do. Let us give him the floor at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u149	Mr President! Mr Eerola mentioned here earlier that we should not start to restrict the positive immigration that genuinely contributes to the positive development of the nation and of our overall economy, and I do share the view expressed by Mr Eerola and I do not see any evidence of racism here, as some Members may have argued. I myself have worked in small enterprises in the ict sector, and I always had very good relations with Asian workers, among others, and good memories of these jobs. They were needed during the years of growth in the ict sector. On the other hand, Mrs Juvonen has made an excellent point about the need to create conditions for Finnish young people to train themselves for jobs and jobs corresponding to future labour needs. The discussions have also raised the issue of immigration models in the USA and Australia, in which the arrivals are very strongly ranked according to their characteristics and their labour market eligibility, and Mr Harakka also raised the issue of Canada. These countries are traditional Western democracies. In fact, they have an older tradition of democracy than in Finland, and I do not think there is anything in their immigration policy that would give rise to major counter-reactions. Mr President! However, the debate has also raised the issue of the abandonment of labour needs. Unfortunately, the example of Sweden shows that there has been no problem at all, at least there. Among other things, a report published by the Swedish Government concluded that the waiver of the need-tested procedure led to irregularities that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u150	Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u151	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity and thank you for these questions. Just a few bits. Yeah, well, there was a little bit of a mix-up about who Tekes was evaluating. Indeed, it is not a question of Tekes assessing the employee, but of the entrepreneur, which means that Tekes does not assess the future of the employment relationship; that is different. There was a call for an overall assessment of the foreign law, that is to say, this dismantling of bureaucracy overall. We have therefore done a great deal at the Ministry of the Interior to facilitate these residence permits in situations such as work-related and generally such. All in all, the bureaucracy will be dismantled, but it will still be kept under control and good quality. Then there was also talk about how to get new kinds of experts. Coders, cyber security — very important lifting, because these are exactly what they are. As a former teacher, I personally believe that this competence should be developed here in Finland too, of course. At the moment, when there is not necessarily enough knowledge, these are the very things that could be needed for the teaching work. I'd go to elementary school and take one of these. There's been some great textbooks and some nice things like this, and I've even bought my kid, my daughter, a code book like this, so I can get a little... It's the future now. It was then asked about this process that the applicant must therefore first apply for a residence permit from Tekes and then from Tekes. And then I say to Mrs Haraka that you can get what you want. So we now have work-related immigration under the bridge, because we are working on an immigration policy programme. I would be happy to cooperate with you, because if you agree to do this, yes. On the whole, I would like to thank you for your positive attitude towards promoting work-related immigration. At the same time, we will also increase the business activity that will bring those jobs to Finland. Entrepreneurship really carries Finland. Thank you, too, for talking about Finland's attractiveness. There are many such actions, factors, even speeches, that may lead to Finland not being perceived as attractive. All those positive actions will keep it attractive, but, as I say today with regard to the internal security strategy, they will also be safe. That is why we need a certain level of control and that is why we need security measures for all of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u152	Mr. Speaker! When it comes to immigration and integration into Finnish society, work is the best starting point for learning Finnish culture, the Finnish language, to become part of Finnish society. That is what we must do in this Chamber to ensure that this happens. Yes, this bill is good for breaking down the barriers so that people with a foreign background can become better integrated into this society through their own knowledge: this time we are talking about start-ups and entrepreneurship, about making the residence permit easier to get through the start-up company that is set up. After all, we have had obstacles to the fact that we have not been able to make use of the best experts we have in our own society. If we have smart friends, who possibly have training in their own country of origin, have abilities, then these abilities must not be allowed to go to waste, but must be exploited. The coders have been mentioned in several speeches and, for example, the people involved in this type of IT-related tasks and related know-how who come here must be able to benefit from our economic growth and for the benefit of Finnish society. It is precisely because this bill is good that it now wants to remove obstacles to making them part of this society. And, of course, when there has been talk here of threats or opportunities — Mr Mäkelä talks more about threats, others talk about opportunities — I would see more opportunities in this situation than these risk factors that could have an effect on our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u153	Mr President! There has been a debate here mainly about work-related immigration, which I have listened to. I came so late. Let me give you an example. My dad's an old man and he needs home care. Russia would have become a woman, paid for and handled all the expenses it incurred would have taken care of the home. No, it didn't. Migri didn't get immigration like this. There would have been no cost to the government. But another type of immigration, as Eerola pointed out, is all right. And this certainly is because if a carpenter comes from there, then surely one must train that an axe is not put on the head, or a carnivore that it does not cut off the neck. This will provoke its reaction here in the native Finns. So against immigration, I have nothing. On the contrary, we now need berry farms, to drive a forest machine,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u158	Mr President, Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think this has been a fruitful and constructive debate. Only one small correction must be made to Mr Elon's earlier speech that Canada cannot be regarded as a country of any strict immigration policy. When about 20,000 to 25,000 people are taken out of the refugee quota each year, you will remember well that last year this quota was doubled and taken in 50,000, including those who have fled the Syrian war. Canada is also a major country of humanitarian immigration. And these are not contradictions; these are two things that support each other in terms of the atmosphere, and it is something wonderful that for Canadians multiculturalism, the sense of immigration, is precisely the identity, the identity, and this is a very strong part of the atmosphere and the culture that we can only envy in this respect. However, when the minister was talking about the attraction factors, we must be concerned that 70% of the staff of the Agency said that if it moves to Helsinki they will not follow that they resign, while they were willing to move to Copenhagen. So the most important task for us now is to think about what separates Helsinki from Copenhagen, and to act according to the fact that Helsinki would be more attractive — as it was a hundred years ago, when it was a cosmopolitan, multicultural and glamorous city, and of course it concerns Finland as a whole. In addition to attracting start-ups to Finland, the circumstances of start-ups in general should be able to be improved in many ways. We have lost a little, well, to Berlin of course, but also to nearby Stockholm, which has attracted growth companies much more than Helsinki. There is still much to be done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u159	Mr President! The point is that work-related immigration is a source of strong emotion. For example, in my home country, a strawberry farmer I met here a few weeks ago when I visited his birthday told me that when he necessarily needed a labor force — since of course no one could collect strawberry with the strength of family members — their labor came from Ukraine. I was forced to think of unemployment — and yet he paid them, just showing me the papers, paid me the right wages, and all these social and health care costs and occupational health care played if someone had a cold or something, then the doctor was found nearby and so on — but there were no Finnish workers and women on the ground. Twenty Ukrainian youths worked there, worked hard, and certainly earned a good income. In other words, when we talk about unemployment, we Finns themselves would have a bit of a place to look in the mirror. There's work to do. It's true that the first place you can find is the CEO, but you have to start somewhere. Each of us has experienced it ourselves. Secondly, the Canadian immigration system mentioned by Mrs Haraka: the Constitutional Committee visited it in the spring, and indeed there... On the other hand, the fact that Canada's entry policy is extremely selective must be borne in mind. As we know, their location is what it is: there are no snoopers, no snoops, no snoops. Canada chooses very strictly who comes to it on the basis of a certain scoring. When I discussed it with Members of this House, they said that it is not a problem for them, it is a natural thing. Just as Mr Harakka said in his speech, how Canada grew and strengthened in time, it was very much based on getting people from Europe, including Ireland, with their skilled gloves and already finished jobs. That's what it was all about. But certainly the conditions of Canada and Europe should not be compared, because they are not the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u160	Mr President! This debate has become a somewhat broader debate on immigration, and that is a good thing. It is always appropriate to do so and, in particular, to go into this world of work-related immigration, which Finland really needs in the future. I would have intervened in a few more cases, and indeed in what Mrs Myllykoski pointed out earlier in relation to the fact that, whenever we create different systems, although we do not want to believe, there is always the possibility that someone might abuse them. This is what comes to this debate in the legislation, and how much of this prior control we have in advance, and we believe that we can minimise the potential for abuse, as we have built up labour immigration legislation in this country, which is precisely based on the fact that there is a prior control which at least eliminates the cases where, when we look at international examples, there are abuses. We will get these out of there first, leaving us with less need for this ex post control. In any case, even now, when we know our labour market problem that more of this ex post control is needed in any case, we need to think about this as a whole, because we do not have endless resources. A good example is that, if we wanted to eliminate this prior control, for example in the area of work-related immigration, and then transfer it as resources to post-monitoring, it would mean, for example, in the field of health and safety at work that we should increase five times the level of health and safety resources, five times as far as today is concerned. Everyone understands that there is no financial opportunity for this, and the conclusion is that we need prior control and also ex post control, which will then enable us to catch these abuses out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u161	Mr President! Representative Savola said just now that I raised the risks of this bill. That is indeed true. I have highlighted the potential risks that this bill may entail. This is a parliament where we are now having a referral debate on the law that can be enacted here, and then, when that law is in force, if those risks remain there, they will come true and we will then have a loophole in our law, which we must not allow to go there. One of the risks I raised is this issue of social security. I think I was reasonably right because the Minister did not answer that question in my two speeches. That's not what I asked you for fun. A background study has been carried out on this point that it is a very complex and complex issue. In that sense, I am surprised at the level of this legislative drafting that the Minister does not have an answer to such a very fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u162	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Hosko for his attention in relation to Canada. It is true that its geographical location is ideal for this planned migration. You don't get lost there by any chance. But now the situation has changed a little since President Obama granted asylum to the victims of the Haitian rule of law, tens of thousands, and now President Trump has cancelled these asylums and these people have now sought, up to the land border, to the north of Canada. They are now in the same situation as the Finns were two years ago, so there will be many asylum seekers at the borders. But here's the thing: when they admit that, yes, it has caused them trouble and delays, they have, thanks to planned immigration, a machine that can handle this much better than the Finns have been able to do then two years ago or, I dare say, even today to take care of the integration of those who have sought it. In my opinion, it is an expression and a doctrine here that, if the basic principle of immigration is positive over the 150 years that Canada has been in its present form, then it is easy to build on it a systematic immigration policy that is acceptable to citizens. Of course, we also want Finland to shoulder its international responsibility there too on the humanitarian side, rather than being subjected to great pressure on our land borders, but also to compliance with the Dublin Convention, but to be able to systematically increase the quota of refugees and thus to keep this immigration under good control and acceptable to the public. As I said at the outset — which, in my opinion, is the most important observation here — this immigration to Finland is absolutely necessary if we want Finland to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u163	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä, this bill of law is now precisely about dismantling red tape, and it is precisely about making it possible for these people, who are generally trained, to give to this society, to set up a business, to produce good for this society. This bill seeks to break red tape, so I would like to see stronger arguments that what should or should not be changed from this bill now, when it is precisely to gain those benefits for Finnish society from immigration – we have had a lot of immigrants and immigrants who want to come to work here as well. All in all, now that this immigration has been discussed more broadly, we must be able to control this immigration policy throughout the EU. If the external borders in the EU were to keep as well as we keep the Finnish external border against the eastern border, then we would be fine, but unfortunately people are coming here at the moment, and there is really no information about who they are, what kind of papers they come here and so on. That is why we should be better able to do this control. Of course, help must be given to those who need help, but in a controlled way. Then on this question of working people, both Finns and immigrants: We have a lot of tasks that we can't get Finns to work on. In particular, they can be found in primary production, such as strawberries, cattle farms and so on, where good workers can be found outside Finland's borders and many times outside the EU area. They are hardworking workers who also want to come here to build a society, also getting a wider bread through this way and a better life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u164	Mr President! This explanatory statement states that this does not end up bringing very many people to Finland, but perhaps the biggest, most important contribution is precisely that this positive climate of work-related immigration in Finland would spread and that awareness of it would spread to the world. That is perhaps the best contribution here, and making it possible for students to stay here as another matter. The Ministry of Labour has somewhere estimated that in order for Finland to cope with the challenges of the future, we would need more than 10,000 new work-related immigrants every year. This is such a big and demanding figure that we must also have an active immigration policy, while at the same time making such kind of tailor-made laws. Mr Harakka mentioned that we may not survive unless we take this work-related immigration seriously. I agree. On the other hand, we could make a family policy in which birth rates start to increase naturally in this country and Finnish families feel safe to invest in Finland in the form of children, among other things. I believe that this should be taken into account here as a whole. I'll take one more for the big one, which may not be so pleasant. In Finland, approximately 9,000 children are aborted every year on average. What if those kids were in the labor force? I am not putting them against each other in any way, but this debate has been very rewarding, as Mrs Harakka said, and there are many social aspects here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u165	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä has been asking about the risks associated with this performance, and certainly there are, it is not a ban. Growth entrepreneurship in general is conceptually linked to risk-taking in the hope of rapid and massive growth. I think that, at the entry stage, we simply have to accept that not all growth entrepreneurs will succeed, at least in the first attempt, despite ex-ante assessments. No expert can predict the success of the company with absolute certainty. But I think that it is understandable for growth entrepreneurs to take a new approach here. These experts, which we are talking about here, are also engaged in international competition, and I therefore draw attention to the fact that their process of residence permits must be as smooth and as fast as possible. In fact, there is a concern that, in practice, it will take us a long time to process residence permits. I hope this does not become a bottleneck for these growth entrepreneurs, because it simply does not fit into the concept of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u166	Mr President! A first-class master does not want to be a second-class citizen. This was the brilliant crystallization of Mr Filatov in relation to the whole of this debate. It concerns this atmosphere debate. It matters what kind of atmosphere we create, which affects all of us, people who look a little different. I would also like to thank Mr Harakka and Mr Adlercreutz for their good comments on this point. Mr Eerola's comment that racism would not occur in Finland if all immigrants were to behave well: I must say that racism is an unknown concept for a certain white Finnish, but I can assure you that this is not the case. If I think about myself, I too am experiencing all sorts of racist — well, feedback — and I could actually open my e-mail to Mrs Eerola and other interested parties, even if I see it as a highly incomprehensible, racist, discriminatory language. My message to the government is that this is a good bill, but it is not enough to reverse the course. There are many other things to be done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u167	Mr President! In this debate, which Mr Mäkelä started with regard to social security and its possible abuse, we now have legislation that, after four months of residence, people are entitled to social security and, after six months of residence, also to earnings-related security. This has been assessed in the context of the proposal, and it has also been stated here that it is not believed that this would have increased potential to abuse it, since the basis for granting a residence permit is linked to the activities of the company, i.e. that the main reason for the stay is precisely to run the company, and it is also linked to the life cycle of the company. In other words, if this were to happen that the company was actually only intended as a front, then it would always be possible for the authorities to leave to cancel this issued residence permit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u168	Mr President! In fact, I asked to speak on this same issue as our social security system when a person comes from abroad. That is twofold: it is a question of housing-based social security and it is a question of labour-linked social security. And these are the limits that we have in connection with many legislations, such as the Reception Directive: if a person has come from third countries on humanitarian grounds, is he working here, is he then entitled to unemployment benefit when he has fulfilled the conditions of employment and has paid the premiums that are a prerequisite for that? I will not repeat what Joona Räsänen said, but in fact, Kela's website or the social security information bank provides a pretty good overview of when you can see when you can get a benefit. In that sense, I think the Minister did not reply, because nothing changes in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u169	Mr President, Mr President! Yes, of course, the point raised by Mr Mäkelä is something that should be dealt with in committee. But I would like to raise the reverse, as it were, to approach a similar question from an entirely different direction, to which I was inspired by Mr Päivi Räsänen's observation that there is always a risk of start-up entrepreneurship. We also need to understand in the committee on this legislation that a large proportion of start-ups are going down — and they are going down handsomely, causing huge losses, and there will be a lot of bad feelings left, but hopefully not a lot of bodies. But this must also be taken into account in this legislation, because this is the nature of start-up activity, the risk of growth entrepreneurship. We cannot make legislation in which these start-ups are somehow separated into their own kind of guinea pigs, which are only allowed to succeed. Then we will certainly not feed on the innovation that is fueled by the great probability of failure. The only possibility of its innovation is that it goes like all the stakes on one screen and can go very well or very badly. That's where the law has to be written in, that if this startup entrepreneur fails, he won't be thrown right back across the border because this entrepreneurship stops there. That some kind of safety net would have to be able to create that, too. But I believe that the potential for abuse here is quite non-existent, if it is now a company with internationally scalable potential approved by Tekes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u170	Mr President! A little now I am on the brink of this government's proposal, but there has been a great deal of discussion both on needs and on how to do seasonal work. The representative, Mr Filatov, also called for a single agile system for the seasonal workers sector. Let us say that the trader in agriculture knows when the harvest will start to be completed, and so he will certainly be able to anticipate 90 days before, because it is approximately, and now, however, through legislation and directive, there will be the possibility that, if it is delayed a season ago, the same employer will have the opportunity to apply for a permit extension and will be dealt with so that this seasonal worker can continue to work for the same employer without interruption during the process of applying for a permit. There will be no such interruptions. I think it is important to discuss these needs, but I would like to see that when we consider the whole package, the needs and the issues of seasonal workers, we should not stay in bed. So, yes, we also need to have positive elements for that. When we have structural problems with high unemployment, we should have our own national choice of means to set up funds so that we can tackle a positive structural problem. In other words, we need to be able to react nationally to the problem of labour matching, so that we can produce a skilled workforce. More opportunities for labour mobility must be developed in the future, starting from the sale of a detached house. [The President repudiates—] The speaker moves to the podium] President! I would like to continue the debate we need to be able to do, for example, with regard to our earnings-related daily allowance. Here, the SDP has taken good initiatives so that we can become entrepreneurs and so on. We must have the possibility that the welder who is left unemployed from that reasonably paid job will be tempted to change the locality even if it is less paid during the duration of the unemployment allowance. We should give him the earnings-related daily allowance because he knows that after 500 days that earnings-related allowance will end. In the event of unemployment, immediate measures will be taken to ensure that the period of unemployment is very short and that he has every opportunity to be placed there, even in low-paid employment, which will become an attractive option. And then add to it even more haughty temptations that the sale of its own dwelling is not the only critical point, but that it is then possible to look at the profits tax to see that we are supporting it from the locality to move on to new work. So let's not forget this choice of our methods. As far as seasonal workers are concerned, we are stopping at the point where it is the only chance in the rural economy at the moment that the farms can safely grow their crops when they know that they are receiving seasonal workers from Ukraine or elsewhere outside the EU and EEA countries. We've been a little involved in that. But why have we not begun to see what we can do here in the country so that the work in the countryside would be interesting? If we continue to do this by relying only on seasonal workers, we mean that we will continue this rural decline — more closed village schools. We must look at this whole labour immigration policy from a completely new perspective, so that we take families here. Not only are we taking people here for three months to do and secure the livelihood of one of its entrepreneurs, but we must be able to see that we bring those people whose children need those village schools, health services and everything that is basic to people living there in the countryside. That now we have to expand this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u171	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski has good ideas and they should also be tried out in practice. The problem here is that we can speak in this Chamber, but as far away as the East is from the West, the representatives live in that practical life. They just don't want any of our ideas to come true in that field, and that's the problem. We need to be able to deal with the mishaps, talk about the things they are, and not the monk Latin that doesn't really understand anything ordinary people. As far as rural settlement is concerned, Myllykoski has a good proposal for this. But we now have cities and municipalities where more than 160 cities and municipalities already have bachelors than women. How can such representatives, who are here to talk about what you happen, be able to give a concrete answer to this instance — this is all humane? A mayor — or mayor — said that there is a crying shortage of women, there are bachelors. Well, here we have integration plans, all of them, there will be tens of millions of money put there, those men there will be integrated with men. This is something we need to be able to deal with. There will only be more and more problems, and that is not a racism issue. It is a practical matter, and it is so. You just have to be able to talk about it. I will continue with my next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u172	Mr President! I would only have corrected the misunderstanding of Mr Myllykoski because he understood me backwards. When I was talking about flexibility and speed for seasonal workers, about getting a work permit and getting a residence permit, I did not mean the employer, because of course the employer knows when his berry is or when the rush period is in tourism, but I meant the employee. The seasonal labour directive will bring us new practice. Currently, when you receive a work permit in Finland, you can obtain it in the industry and you can freely change your employer without losing your work permit if it is in the same industry. But in the directive on seasonal work, this is not possible because of the EU's frame work, and that permit is always employer-specific. If an employee encounters an unpleasant employer who fails to fulfil his obligations, he cannot go to another employer even if it is the same period but has to apply for a new permit. That is why the authorisation process should be quick.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u173	Mr President! I would like to give you another example: we are talking about the need to get women as many as men to run a business and to run state businesses, 50-50 in particular. On this issue of immigration, which I mentioned earlier: if we take what these refugee organisations and others in the world see as 80% of the people who are suffering as women and children, that is, the same relationship with the people who come here, there is no problem. No way. Then we will help people who are suffering and I say welcome to us too, I too will be there to support one at home, perhaps I can, and the problems will go away. Then the problem of excluded Finnish men, especially young men, can be answered with that, but it is not the answer to the fact that only people with different cultures are integrated here who have slightly different rules than we do. There's gonna be a collision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u174	Mr President! To this speech by Mr Hakkarainen, I would like to comment on the fact that this problem would be overcome by the fact that it is in this humanitarian immigration policy that we would take more quota refugees directly from the refugee camps. This would allow attention to be focused specifically on women and children and vulnerable persons. But now we have this rather modest proportion of the refugee quota; instead, large numbers have come directly to the border as asylum seekers. But I will return to this situation of growth entrepreneurs and to the fact that I believe that more concern should be given to how Finland could be sufficiently attractive to these experts than to how this system might be misused. International experience shows that the problem has been that a significant proportion of growth entrepreneurs do not remain in the country but relocate their activities. In other words, we must be quick and competitive, and its attitude must also be in place for these entrepreneurs if we want them to contribute to Finland's success here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u175	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski pointed out that seasonal workers could bring families with them and colonise the countryside, as Finnish families could move to the countryside and do seasonal work. But what do we do outside of seasonal work? And how about those kids? If they go to village schools with many nationalities, will we receive interpretation services there, and what will it cost us to have many interpreters there? Is that town gonna be okay? And what happens when those children, those immigrant children, get past primary school? Will they come to the capital region then, like young Finns today, leave the countryside when there are not enough nice jobs? Then I would like to comment on the issue of immigration to Canada, particularly from Mr Harakka: After all, they have had the fact that there is no way across the border, they have not crossed the border. They have been able to see what kind of people will be there and how much and how they will be able to find employment in the future. But now that these Haitians are crossing the border, they are walking to Canada, so it did not work. There are tent villages, and these asylum seekers have been accommodated in the Olympic Stadium since July, when they have arrived at 7,000 — 7,000, and they have not been able to be accommodated except in tents to be heated up. And there is now concern about the Canadians how they will survive, and the Prime Minister has had to convince them that employers are not allowed to hire foreign workers if domestic workers are found. That there's no problem with this, either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u176	Mr Myllykoski, and at this stage, if there are any requests to speak on this matter, please press the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u177	Mr President! Representative Lehto, I would like to say that seasonal workers with or without family are not the solution. That's what I was trying to tell you. We need to look at this whole thing again. We must have such an attractive infrastructure that we can also get Finnish families to move there, and that certainly means that we must be able to share those seasonal jobs so that we have interesting, complex jobs and, say, combinations of these collective agreements. Which means we're gonna have to have employees there for the winter season. In that committee, an agricultural entrepreneur said that he had to give up snowing as an entrepreneur, precisely because he did not get the employee who was carrying out the snow work outside his farm. In other words, we must be able to look at this nationally as a whole, so that we do not become rigid in collective agreements, that the social partners do not disagree on what collective agreement is in, but that the whole of the countryside is taken over so that we can develop it and have those fibre optic cables. There we will then have to offer Finnish families the local schools and services that people need in their lives. I think that's how... But now that this culture has been extended so that those young people who leave there for full-time work elsewhere have not had the opportunity, when that work on the farm may only be seasonally, during summer time, and when we have been mechanized today, there is no hand-made work available and certainly not for the whole year. Then we are on the path of letting this national treasure die, but of which I am sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u178	Mr President, Mr President! Here we returned to this Canadian own refugee crisis, which I mentioned earlier. As I said earlier, this is a new situation for them, the fact that refugees cross the border, and it is quite clear that it has caused a number of problems, especially for two different reasons: this is a problematic situation for the Canada-US agreement, because there are no legal border crossings, and secondly, these Haitians who have come to the United States are not running away from persecution or war, but could very well return to Haiti. But, as I said earlier, the Canadian immigration system is so well-functioning that it is unlikely that such a small number will cause any trouble for the Canadians in the long term or even in the medium term. Here is one interesting point that I could conclude by pointing out: the fact that the Canadian system for the integration and integration of asylum seekers is interesting in such a way that organisations, communities, parishes, churches and even ordinary families are integrated into the system in such a way that they can provide accommodation and maintenance for these asylum seekers. And this is an interesting way in which asylum seekers are automatically anchored in the community and networked in a way that has gone quite the opposite in Finland, that is, even those municipalities — Kyyjärvi now comes to mind — who have wanted to keep asylum seekers — have not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u179	Mr President! At this end, I would like to say that a long journey has come when we talk about start-ups and have come to the analysis of the vitality of the countryside and its life cycle, that if you move foreigners into the countryside to live as seasonal workers, how can they then live in the countryside on a permanent basis and perhaps even for a longer time if children grow up and so on? This must be borne in mind by the fact that immigrants cannot operate in Finland in the long term according to other loan conditions than Finns. We have problems with the whole settlement of our country, we have population loss from rural to urban. Immigration is not a miracle cure in itself. The same problems are faced with immigrants as with Finns, if not worse, because then they also talk about language problems and cultural adjustment problems that Finns do not have. However, Finns have quite good basic education compared to immigrants from many countries. So this is not a miracle cure for solving these issues. We must take care of our labour market on our own.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u180	Mr President! The representative Päivi Räsänen mentioned here a little earlier that, in order to attract foreign start-ups to Finland, we should develop our conditions in such a way that the conditions for starting and continuing the business would be in sufficient condition to create these start-ups. This is the case, of course, but of course these same things also apply to Finns who would be interested in starting a business. There are certainly many of them, but for some reason circumstances do not favor it. Promoting entrepreneurial pro-entrepreneurship should be done already in school, from primary schools to upper secondary schools and higher education. In addition, taxation, among other things, can definitely improve the conditions and incentives for entrepreneurship. Some progress has been made in this direction during this parliamentary term, but much remains to be done. This is partly a continuum, this speech, for the previous speech by Mr Mäkelä. The representative said that the rules should of course be the same for both Finns and foreigners who are engaged in entrepreneurship here and are able to set up these start-ups, especially in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u181	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski has a wonderful vision of the future of rural areas and of the opportunities that could possibly come through immigration. And as such, when start-ups are set up and there are entrepreneurs, they should also be brought to the countryside. But, of course, as far as immigrants are concerned as we're concerned with Finns... Many people have a desire to come to the countryside, either to come as a returner or to come and find a new life, in a way, in the peace of the countryside, and that one’s own job there many times, but then there should be a job for the spouse as well. And here, of course, there may be even greater challenges for immigrant families to find a job for both sides. There are areas where it is very difficult to get Finnish workers, especially as regards primary production, forestry, strawberry growing, berry growing in general, and livestock workers, for example. These then include foreign labour, some seasonal, some more permanent workers. But then there's the challenge of finding that job for the whole family. And as I have said before in this debate, that work is, of course, the best way to integrate people into this society, and that is a good thing, to learn language and culture and to be part of society. But we need to be able to reflect on those opportunities, and I have suggested, for example, in the case of southern Ostrobothnia, that instead of looking at the local boundaries, how to attract people to their own municipality, we should take a broader view of how to attract people to the countryside, the province, so that there may be work in one parish and another, depending on what the people are in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u182	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u183	Mr President, Mr President! I noticed that this referral debate might have gone without a speech if I had not asked for it, and there is reason to do so in that, although the title of this motion is breathless and perhaps a little depressing — 30 words — and, in many respects, very technical, at the end of the day, it is an important matter, even in such a way that a small blue flag can be waved around. It is therefore a question of implementing provisions on the exchange of information on tax matters and banking secrets with the European Union's banking secret countries, including Monaco, San Marino and, above all, Switzerland. A few years ago, it could not have been imagined that this banking secrecy, let alone cooperation between the tax authorities and the authorities to identify ownership and find the ultimate beneficiary, could move as fast as it has been in recent years in the European Union and the OECD. And the reason why the Blue Cross flag should be waved is that Finland has been a pioneer, above all the Parliamentary Audit Committee, which started the grey economy programme several years ago. It was a great honour to be an expert, even though I am a Member of Parliament, today in the Audit Committee, when it dealt with the constraint of aggressive tax planning as part of this long-term work against the shadow economy. In the previous government, for the first time, the Minister of Finance brought together his European colleagues to discuss tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning, and in four years we have come this far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u184	Mr President! We must continue that debate that Mr Haraka wanted. This is an act that can only be sincerely supported. Of course, it is important to improve the exchange of information. These are the agreements concluded by the European Union with Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino and Switzerland on the exchange of financial account information. The amount of information reported here is increasing and the exchange of information is expanding to include new types of income, such as dividends and disposal gains, so the exchange of information is significantly improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u185	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear Mr Haraka say that the exchange of information is progressing. It is a good thing that the government has brought this proposal here to us and, in that respect, it will open up this exchange of information and will also open up the possibility that we will not have a grey economy, for example, with regard to tax evasion, as has been the case here in this Chamber in the past, for example, with regard to the management register, with the most critical speeches that Mr Harakka has made. This bill makes it possible to exchange information with a number of countries, which are also outside the European Union, from which of course Switzerland is certainly one of these key issues. Monaco, which is on this list of countries, is also one of the countries in which a very large number of people live. When you've been there, you can't help but wonder why people live there, but taxation is the only reason people live there. There are really no reasonable conditions for living there, at least from the point of view of a Finnish country boy, but certainly no one would move there voluntarily. But it is a good thing that this bill is before us and is now moving forward and that we will have transparency in this exchange of information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u186	Mr President, Mr President! I'm glad Mr. Savola also felt positive about what I said. Of course, I have not expressly praised the current government in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u189	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 7/2017 vp of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u190	Mr President! There are no major changes to this law — in fact, the majority of them relate to changes in our legislation on vocational education and training in general — but some of them do. After all, the Education Fund is a fund managed by the social partners and aims to promote the necessary capacity at work and to support people's ability to re-employment and to remain in their occupation and to move forward. It is therefore a question of support for vocational education and training. The Education and Training Fund grants adult education benefits and is a support for adult education during the period when an adult person is trained and also a vocational qualification scholarship. And this vocational scholarship may now be the one where more of those changes take place. They are usually granted on an annual basis of around 25,000. Let's say it would grow up to next year by a couple of thousand. Some 9 million have been spent on this, and in the future it is thought that the sum would be 11 million. It is a question of future plans to combine the Education and Training Fund and unemployment insurance funds, and in that sense too these issues are interlinked. Today, if you support your first vocational qualification, that scholarship is 450 euros. It is proposed that it should fall to EUR 400, which in itself is an unfortunate reform. Then, on the other side, it is thought that when a scholarship from a non-first vocational qualification can be EUR 395, then, as if it were for consistency, it would rise to EUR 400. In fact, about 70 percent of the people applying for a scholarship receive it. Another change in this law is related to age. In other words, when our goal has been to have people working longer, so far the Education Fund has served people who have been 64 years old at most, but in the future that upper age limit will rise to 68 years, and that is, of course, justified by the extension of working careers. Above all, adult education support is the gateway to further training in areas where we often have a shortage of skilled workers. Actually, the biggest group that uses this is the care professionals. Even more of those who use the benefits of the Education Fund are women. However, when we go to evidence examinations on the educational side, these changes are also introduced into this law, which means that qualifications would also be carried out here as a evidence examination. It is a question of how to organise vocational qualifications, how to evaluate skills and how to issue a diploma. In the future it will be the provider of education and must be licensed by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The committee made minor changes to this, not to substance itself, but to the fact that when these laws come into force a little differently, the amendments to the entry into force provision ensured that we can continue to grant these scholarships. The committee unanimously supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u191	Mr President! In fact, the chairman of the committee was very good at presenting this modest amendment bill, and I would just like to thank the fact that the entry into force provisions took account of these people who were about to miss out. It was a very good and important correction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u192	Mr President! Now that I am not myself in this committee which dealt with this, I was a little confused by the starting point that we should make provision for a scholarship to be awarded to all persons with qualifications under the Vocational Training Act. What, then, has the present situation been and what have the problems been that it could not be admitted, and why was this change necessary? This did not really work out for me in those texts, so if anyone can clarify it, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u193	Chairman! In fact, it is not a question of extending this scholarship. This harmonises the scholarships granted to people who have completed their first vocational qualification or who have changed their profession, i.e. another vocational qualification. We have had such a system that a larger scholarship has been obtained from the first vocational qualification, and if it has been the second, then the number of scholarships has been lower. Now these amounts are combined in such a way that, whether the first or the second degree, it will give it EUR 400. Around 70% of the people who undergo a vocational qualification through this system apply for a scholarship, and not everyone gets one too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u194	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u195	Mr President! Very briefly: we are talking about health and safety at work, cooperation on health and safety at work, and the point is that if we have incidents or accidents in the workplace that have led to a biologically dangerous factor in the environment, we must report it. And here it is suggested that if a person has been exposed to such a factor, a list of such workers should be kept so that, in the event of a high-risk situation, this problem can be kept in the best possible hands and handled with honor. It is therefore an obligation to notify.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u196	Mr President! Probably a necessary change in this area. I would have asked if someone could answer whether this precise improvement was now the only thing needed for this law, or whether there were still gaps, for example, when talking about poisons and chemical substances. So was there anything else left to fix for the follow-up?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u197	Mr President! I was thinking — I suppose it has nothing to do with this, or I do not know whether it does — and now I ask Mr Filatov: when we talk about the potential risks at the workplace, how do we do it when, for example, a lumberjack from a forestry association goes to a seedling farm and happens to have a mother bear and her cubs? Do I have to notify an employee of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u198	Mr President! I must confess that the question goes to a side where my own expertise is not necessarily enough. But I think this is more about the biological factors that spread very quickly, and I believe that bear cubs do not, as it were, increase in the same volume as some of the biological risks we have. But we in the Safety and Health Act already regulate these other matters, so that it is actually a question of these biological factors being a little more recent and there has been no labelling in that legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u199	Mr President! Certainly these biological factors and safety at work are absolutely essential and acute, but of course employers also come up with a number of criticisms that, in a way, a lot of bureaucracy has been created in relation to this safety at work. Of course, there are good things in it that have been addressed: attention has been paid to hearing protection, eye protection and so on and it has been considered that things are done more safely. But all in all responsibility to the worker himself — this must of course be through education — must be given in these various matters, that it is understood in common sense to protect himself against various dangers, that is, when, for example, the metal industry does or on the forest side does, at the circus, at the gravel, wherever it works, so it is understood to act on its own initiative, taking care of safety at work. But that is certainly why, when there has been no safety at work in the past, it has had to be dealt with through legislation – it is being tackled at EU level and then brought here at national level. I remember when, last season, in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities we had a so-called directive on pottery, which seemed rather strange. It was precisely to protect those workers who do such work at hand, but it was a bit of a pleasure to us back then. It seems that this too had a good purpose, even though there is quite a lot of red tape in the way of these various regulations. The sense of the country is involved, and the employers and the workers together to compromise these things, and good will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u200	Mr President! This is perhaps the shortest and most modest piece of legislation I have seen, but it is very important, because here this delay procedure is clearly recorded and an obligation and then rises from the regulation to the level of the law, very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u201	In the world, people die every second of their work, so in that sense safety legislation should not be underestimated. In fact, when our labour markets become international, it is essential that we have that framework in the legislation. After all, the Labour Safety Act was reformed at the beginning of the 21st century. It had a wide range of hearing backgrounds, as it were, and that legislation was adopted unanimously at the time, i.e. it was for entrepreneurs and employers alike. Finland is one of the countries where very few accidents occur at work. Very few people die at work, and there are very few permanent injuries at work. Instead, we may have greater mental burdens and problems, and that is where we have much to do. But the background is that this work has been done consistently and has been done for a long time together with employers and workers. But what I think is essential is that, when the labour market becomes international — and we have just talked about the importance of foreign labour, we will have foreign workers who do not automatically know all the security systems we have — it cannot be thought that this security is, as it were, on the worker's hands. Yes, the employer has that basic responsibility. As far as the directives on labels or others are concerned, I think that together we can be critical of the fact that EU directives are not always suitable for Finnish working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u202	Mr President! These biological hazards are, after all, impurities of biological origin in the working environment there. For example, bacteria, viruses, parasites that may cause these dangers arise in the health care or laboratory. Of course, it is good to be careful about these. These biological impurities or hazards also include fungi, e.g. mold exposure. I do not know whether this rather extensive problem, which is in fact the subject of exposure in many workplaces, has been addressed, but I understand that it is mainly in situations where there has been an accident or a danger that there has been any contamination of the environment in which people work. Then, of course, it is good to be careful.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u203	Mr President! In fact, it did not deal with this problem of fungi or with the problem of mold, even though it is related to them, but rather with the biological issues that may, as it were, infect quickly or spread quickly. But now I am speaking personally, not so much as as the chairman of the committee, and I think we should have legislation on health and safety at work that would take these indoor air issues into account better than at present. We do not have the systems in which a person can, as it were, completely get help for himself in health care. If we lose one’s ability to work due to indoor air, we do not have such a security of change as some other work-related illnesses and also do not have the option of a pension solution. I think that we should find the procedures in which a person would have this kind of security of change in a situation where he is exposed because of indoor air and is no longer able to work in his former place, or many other working communities are confined out because of that exposure, so that one might think that society would be the one that would help to train a new profession that would be possible for this exposed person, when, at the moment, often people are endlessly unemployed and get all the roughs and other necks — because this is not considered to be work-related in the same way as some other, proven work-related diseases — and people do not have the aid mechanisms to rehabilitate and study the new profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u204	Mr President! In just a few words, I would like to underline the words of Mr Filatov's previous speech, in fact everything that belongs to these indoor air problems and mold problems and, in fact, to various kinds of, I would say, gases, secretions, which also applies to microbes, not just to mould, can be there. And really this legislation on health and safety at work, as you said, we do not have that much at this stage and there is a really big gap. Perhaps this is something that could be planned, considered in the future, and because the need is really great, perhaps there in your committee, or whatever way it would go, it would also be good to raise these issues of health and safety in the indoor air. There has been talk now, and it is known that the indoor air programme and possibly the Prime Minister's announcement and so on may be coming, there is a great deal going on, we know, but, from the point of view of health and safety at work, we in many respects also have a huge gap in our health care and medical care that takes account of these aspects of health and safety at work. In that sense, I would also like this matter to be dealt with better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u205	In fact, I would like to add a few words to what I said earlier: The problem is that we often cannot prove that the indoor air problems are so great that they get sick. In that sense, just as important as the creation of its legislative framework is the addition of information and evidence, because everyone knows that we very often have problems with the fact that someone is experiencing symptoms and someone else is not showing symptoms and something is not there and then, in a moment, it will not be found again and then it will be found again, when we should look at this as a broad issue for society as a whole. The main problem, in my opinion, is when we come to these public services, which may be so that employees are protected and, for example, a day-care centre or a nursing home is closed, but there is no mechanism to protect those customers, those children and the elderly from the same. Of course, it does not come from the issue of health and safety at work legislation or labour law, but we should also find instruments for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u206	Mr President! I do not recognise myself as a special indoor expert, but I think there are quite a few people here in the Chamber who know that the Prime Minister's Office has launched a comprehensive study of these indoor air problems, and its deadline is in spring, and I think it is March.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u207	Mr President! I would have liked to continue that it is precisely the case that these customers, whether they are children or other businessmen in these premises, are not protected by these sections on health and safety at work. But then, if we think about those workers, one such problem group is also employees who may have different investment points. If you have been exposed at a workplace and then you are away on sick leave or maternity or child care leave for longer and you need to return to a job where you may have more than one job, then this is such a problem that you can only have two days in the first and then you get a new placement and you have similar symptoms. There may be other workers at the workplace who have little or no symptoms, and then someone who has been severely exposed, and there may be a problem that you can work where you can work. And after one of the workstations, it may take a week or two to try the next one. It is true that there are many practical problems that we should quickly find those solutions to — and hopefully we will now find them in this programme, which is on the way and within which I myself have been allowed to be involved — because this is a big problem in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u208	Mr President! In this context of occupational safety and indoor air problems: It is good that much more attention is now being paid to these matters than was done some years ago. Sins come from public buildings built in the 70s to 80s, which have tried to do as cheaply as possible, as efficiently as possible and, in fact, without greater control. We also have examples of buildings around the building where the cisterns are built and the cistern has not left or ended anywhere, it has just been placed there and it has nothing to do with removing moisture, running water. But, in a sense, even in construction, which is related both to safety at work and also to the well-being of citizens, we are actually going back a hundred years. Representative Hoskonen is a forestry professional and knows a lot about wood construction. Now, in a way, we have returned to the roots of the desire to build wood. They want to build a log, they want to build a tree, because indoor air problems are much smaller in this type of construction. Public construction, such as schools and day-care centres, has now begun to make the hang, which will raise the Finnish economy when making Finnish domestic raw material, but also improve the problems we have had with indoor air quality. This is the direction we need to continue and the construction of wood continues in the blocks of flats — we have managed to change the legislation in order to make ever higher buildings from wood — but also in public construction, where this school in Northern Ostrobothnia is one of the examples of which many municipalities have visited to see how public construction of wood can be carried out. This is the right direction, and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u209	Mr President! With regard to these indoor air problems, I would like to say that this issue has been dealt with for a very long time, and there have also been a wide range of initiatives and deliberations in this House. I think one big problem here is that no one seems to be taking overall responsibility for this. This is where responsibility is spread over so many sectors that, unfortunately, these problems seem to continue. And it is absolutely to be welcomed that an attempt is now being made to tackle these problems. But at the same time, Mr President, I would like to make it clear that this particular legislative proposal, which we are dealing with today, does not really deal with these indoor air problems; it is specifically about these sudden incidents and accidents, which have spread some kind of biological pollution, which may, in some cases, also be fungus or mold, but it is not related to these very indoor air problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u210	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A debate on the 9th issue will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u211	Mr President! This bill proposes to reduce the alcoholic strength of alcoholic beverages sold in licensed retail sales from the current 4.7% to 3.5% by volume. This amendment would support the purpose of the Alcohol Act, as expressed in Article 1 of the Alcohol Act, which aims to prevent social, social and health damage caused by substances containing alcohol by controlling alcohol consumption. And now that Parliament has been given the opportunity to discuss the overall reform of the alcohol law, which is before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I hope that this initiative will also be taken into consideration there in parallel with the government's proposal. The government is proposing that the limit on alcohol content should be raised from 4.7 to 5.5%. I am in fact justifying this bill on my own merits, and here, Mr President, I would like to read the explanatory statement in the government proposal 100/2017, which states: "If alcohol consumption and alcohol harm were to be reduced by alcohol legislation, there would be effective means to do so. The most effective means known would be to reduce the alcoholic strength of alcoholic beverages sold under authorisation for retail sale. From the point of view of the functioning of the market, the percentage limit could be the same as in Sweden, i.e. alcoholic beverages containing more than 3.5% alcohol by volume would only be sold in Alko stores in Finland. It is estimated that, as a result of this measure, total alcohol consumption would be reduced by around one litre of absolute alcohol per person aged 15 or over and, correspondingly, alcohol harm would be reduced by, for example, avoiding the death caused by some 350 alcohols per year." And then this government proposal goes on to say: 'This measure would be implemented in practice alone by the WHO' — the World Health Organisation — 'the objective of the action programme on the prevention and treatment of diseases by reducing the total consumption of alcohol to around 10 litres by 2025, even though the reform would at the same time abolish, for example, the standards limiting the use of alcohol'. So I saw in the government's own proposal, in its explanatory statement, but yet the political conclusion was quite different, that is to say a proposal which states in its explanatory statement that alcohol harm and alcohol consumption would be increased by that proposal. In other words, Mr President, I believe that these arguments in the government's draft alcohol law are so good and convincing that I am not using any other arguments here, even to support this move forward with my own proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u212	Mr President! I support Mr Räsänen's proposal, and I would like to say very briefly that, in the opinion of the Medical Association, the concentration limit for alcoholic beverages sold at grocery stores, kiosks, gas stations and so on should be reduced from the current 4.7 to 3.5 instead of raising it. This is, therefore, the idea and position of the Medical Association — precisely the union that represents the health care operators who see there in the emergency rooms, health centres, hospitals, and not just in the emergency clinics but in the wards, the situation that alcohol causes. It is the same if we are thinking about child welfare, fire authorities and so on. The police also recently came in contact with the police, in other words, with practical work, asking the police at the heart of the problems whether alcoholic beverages could not be in Alko overall, and, if anything, only mild drinks in grocery stores and kiosks. They see early in the morning, late in the evening, and at night in the homes the realities of alcohol. And as has been said, in Sweden they have ended up with these milder, light beers in grocery stores and kiosks, and the Swedish authorities have expressed concern about Finland's plans to increase strength. And anyone who is aware of things will understand that, for example, drunkenness is completely different if you drink strong beer, for example, than if you drink mild, 3.5%. You can’t really drink enough of it to get drunk as much as in a short time already in those stronger ones. That I think this change is certainly worth considering. I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u213	Mr President! It is very easy to support this proposal by Mrs Räsänen from a purely rational and public health point of view. In Europe, alcohol consumption is strongly constrained by new regulation based solely on reasons of reason and on the consequences of alcohol consumption in society. The cost of the damage is significantly higher than the benefits of the sale. This is also the case in Finland. When I myself come from a background in which alcohol consumption has been moderate, and I have seen many of the drawbacks, it is not difficult to agree with this presentation either. If we curb availability, we will pay attention to the product that is on sale, and we still cut down on advertising, then I believe that this good development, which is currently among the young people in Finland in particular, can be best supported and promoted in this way. I have received a lot of contacts in connection with the reform of the alcohol law, and everyone has felt that it is unnecessary. I've also made these things my own street galleys, i.e. when I'm a friend of thousands of barbecues, I've asked people on the grills what they think of this. And all of a sudden everyone says, "A completely unnecessary change, I'll get my drink, if I want stronger, in the current way from the liquor store. There is no reason to extend this availability from 350 to more than 5000.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u214	Mr President! This alcoholic has now been much discussed in this Chamber, and I believe that most arguments on this matter have already been heard what the possible arguments are now. Personally, I would assume that the reality is that we do not have the possibility of having a clean table where alcohol is not consumed at all and alcohol harm is completely eliminated. Yes, we will have alcohol in the future, and the world around us is also serving it to Finns through the EU, whether we want it or not. We can't stop that whole alcohol import thing. With regard to this bill for the amendment of Section 14 of the Alcohol Act, I find it a little pale from such a thinking pattern of the past world. In that world, it was the consumption of alcohol by Finns that was distorted for decades when it was made of such forbidden fruit as to patronize adult people and narrow their rights, that is to say, to solve the problem of those who undoubtedly have the problem, by restricting the lives of those who do not have the problem. In this way, the Finnish alcohol culture is also prevented from getting better. I find it very difficult to justify the current calculation of the alcohol percentage of beverages sold in shops because, if it were to happen, it would likely have an explosive effect on imports of alcohol from Estonia and other Baltic countries, on distance purchases via the network and would increase Alko's sales in a way that would make virtually no use of it, on the contrary, it might lose tax revenue abroad. It is also to be expected that the so-called home manufacturing and even the black market will rise, even if the record alcohol consumption levels, such as the Prohibition Act, are barely reached with this blackmail, should still be tightened considerably. I do not want the ways of Finnish alcohol consumption to be further distorted, but I would be much more in favour of a controlled and progressive liberalisation of, for example, strong beer sales and a move towards a European drinking culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u215	Mr President! Alcohol is an emotional thing. This was discussed in the referral to the Alcohol Act itself. Then there was a long discussion, arguments came in half and against. These legislative initiatives would now be moving in quite a different direction from the government’s proposal. Personally, I would like to emphasise the responsibility of the ordinary citizen for his own drinking. I cannot believe that if the alcohol percentage were now diluted to 3.5%, it would bring significant benefits to Finnish public health. This should add to the increasing problems of alcohol imports, firstly as regards increased imports from the Baltic States and the black market. More would be imported from cheaper tax countries or duty-free alcohol from abroad to Finland, and through the black market it would go. The second, perhaps more important question, is that this would be a very radical concentration of our grocery trade. If all over 3.5 per cent beer were for sale only in the Starters, in practice only in larger agglomerations would grocery stores be successful, because then people would be guided to them when they wanted to buy alcoholic products. I am not in favour of strong alcohols, actually strong alcohols, being in the grocery store. They belong to Alko. It's supposed to be wet and gin and so on. But when we talk about beer, that is the moderate line that the government has, this proposal, I think it is to be welcomed, and I would not go down the road to further dilution of the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u216	Mr President! In my opinion, the bill is such a mild prohibition law, that is to say, we are going back to this kind of regulation, given that in the past, when we had a prohibition law, there was a terrible smuggling from Estonia when alcohol was imported and there was disorderly order and all the rest of the bulldozers. At the time of the ban, I remember that more than 40 policemen died in the ministry, so that there was a rather restless time. But then, in my opinion, this does not reduce alcohol consumption by problem users and can shift them more into some other illegal substances, if Alkoa is not next door, then when there are so many drugs available today and you get drugs from every corner, then let’s move on to them, many think. Then when you have to go to Alko and a lot of people want you to have a little bit more flavor in that beer, you know, even a moderate user, then you think, well, there's 7 percent beer next to it, why don't I take it, or I'll have something else. But when the problem user goes to Alko to get the stronger beer, he thinks that the price of the stick is the same with the four, so I won’t take the stick. Should I take four, well, I won't take four, when that Koskeen Ear gets even cheaper, the price-per-percent ratio. Then that problem user will take the stronger from there. I think we're going in the wrong direction here. Then we have to think about why moderate users have to suffer because of problem users. I am not in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u217	Mr President! This is not a ban, it is still a three-beers and four-cells, but access would be restricted. But restricting access is precisely the means recommended by the World Health Organisation, which is also recommended by the OECD as a recommendation to Finland. And these arguments, which I have used here, are not a relapse or my own opinion, but are based on a government proposal. There the explanatory statement of the government’s proposal says what the consequences would be if this were done: 350 deaths less a year. I think it is a rather significant benefit, although it was not considered to be a very significant benefit here. Comparing it with the government’s proposal to raise this alcohol content means more than 150 deaths. I think that 500 people, which is the difference between them, are indeed a significant number of people, and I think that this proposal is well founded. The speeches here also called for alcohol policy, as it were, to focus only on problem users and not to patronise the whole population, but here it is the public health experts — WHO, OECD, the Medical Association — who quite clearly state that it is the most cost-effective and effective way of reducing high consumption and reducing harm that is precisely what affects the population as a whole. So if we try to focus only on that group of problem users, it will not produce that result. Besides, there's about 500,000 of them. It's a large number, a very large number of Finns. Drinking hops
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u218	Mr President! I was just thinking that if it wasn't for alcohol, what other bill could be taken forward, a bill that knows that it causes about 500 deaths a year. I cannot imagine any other bill in Finland that would be taken forward if it were said that this cost is about 500 people per year. The second thing I would like to say is that in our dear neighbour, Sweden, there is this situation. In many cases, when we take a model from Sweden, it is the case in Sweden that there are mild shops nearby. Then, if we think that many times we talk about Estonia's imports and very big words, then Estonia's imports are actually a very small part of total consumption. And when it has been said how much tax revenue would be lost if Estonia were to continue to be imported or some more imported, it is a small dash of euros that we need to use to deal with these disadvantages. You don't get many other things in local stores that each of us would like to buy at that corner store, which means you have to go to special shops or bigger supermarkets and so on. But the fact is that much of what you get from a nearby store or kiosk determines how big the problems are, for example, in families with children, what a housewife or a family member gets from it a few tens or a hundred meters away. Or, if we are thinking of the elderly, too little has been said about the alcohol consumption of the elderly and the problems of the elderly with regard to alcohol in this country. They may not go any further to Estonia to pick up Helsinki, but what you can get from the local store will determine how big the problems are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u219	Mr President! Now, if I imagined myself in the position of having 3.5 percent beer instead of 4.7 percent beer, the most likely scenario would be that if Alko was not nearby, I would buy a few more bottles of beer, that is, the amount of alcohol consumed would not change. But now that this was allowed to be the subject of the debate on the amendment of section 25 of the Alcohol Act, I will also take a stand on that at the same time. In other words, first of all, I absolutely believe that it is worth offering a non-alcoholic alternative to alcoholic beverages. Every time you go to a restaurant and you offer a starter drink, a welcome drink, you have to ask for it to be reckless just because you're driving and you can't drink it. It annoys me that they have to ask for them, the Pommac, but then it would only be a pity that the drink was not available, that is, completely without a drink when you ask for a nonalcoholic drink. In other words, there is probably a need for this, but I would not go along with the law initiatives to force entrepreneurs into this kind of practice. In general, restaurant entrepreneurs do not feel well in our country, because alcohol consumption at home has increased as the trader has a lot of regulations that make the industry more difficult. People have considered it easier to consume alcohol at home, then perhaps a couple of doses in a restaurant, even if it would be a healthy and economically best way to consume it at a place of drinking. It is therefore difficult to support any additional burden and regulation on the back of restaurant entrepreneurs, at least on any non-economic grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u220	Now that Mr Tanus' bill, which can also be dealt with in this context, was raised by Mr Mäkelä, we can make a change so that Mr Tanus can present his own legislative initiative in this context and then continue to discuss both these initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u221	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the many Members of Parliament who have supported this bill, which has signed this bill, and there are signatures from every party and from every group. This is therefore a legal initiative to change the minimum drink selection clause of the Alcohol Act to include two sentences. In other words, Section 25 of Chapter 4 of the Act on Alcohol in force a minimum range of alcoholic beverages and a reasonable price for non-alcoholic At present, therefore, the Alcohol Act does not specify what types of non-alcoholic beverages should be available or what is sufficient. And as a result, all too often the supply is limited only to water, soft drinks or coffee. This bill specifically proposes to amend the alcohol law so that the alcohol product groups sold at the place of consumption are also available as a non-alcoholic alternative. In other words, beer, cider and long drinks belonging to brewery products and red, white and sparkling wines belonging to the wine product group would also be available without alcohol. However, this non-alcoholic option would not be required if it is not available on the market. This bill specifically supports the purpose of the Alcohol Act, which is to control alcohol consumption in order to prevent social, social and health damage caused by substances containing alcohol. The aim of the initiative is simply to ensure an adequate coverage and quality of the minimum supply of non-alcoholic products and therefore does not impose excessive additional requirements on the owner of the place of consumption. If we think about the arguments, according to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, alcohol abuse is one of the most important health threats in Finnish society. It has come many times in this Chamber, too. Extensive use of alcohol increases morbidity and exacerbates the symptoms of many diseases. And in recent years, alcohol - related causes of death have been the most common cause of death among working - age people. For the public economy, the additional costs of alcohol-related harm amount to several billion euros a year. Alcoholic harm is directly related to the total consumption of alcohol, as has been well highlighted many times. As a result, as many measures as possible should be taken to reduce alcohol harm. In selecting these means, it is also important to pay greater attention to people's consumption behaviour and thus to seek ways of reducing adverse effects. It is true that people are also increasingly interested in non-alcoholic products, and this is another area where supply increases demand. Supply increases demand. We made direct inquiries from Alko about this situation. In spring 2015, Alko launched its own concept of non-alcoholic products from customers’ wishes in its stores — Alko has a selection of non-alcoholic white wines, red wines, sparkling wines, non-alcoholic beers, non-alcoholic ciders, mocktails, mixers and juices — and this concept almost doubled sales of non-alcoholic beverages in 2015 compared to 2014, this sales of non-alcoholic beverages increased by 95.3%. In 2016, Alko sold almost half a million litres of non-alcoholic beverages, an increase of 26.9 per cent from the previous year. The selection of alcohol-free beverages has grown from the 2016 level, i.e. 94 products to 121 products, i.e. also the selection of non-alcoholic beverages in Alko has increased by 29 per cent. Well, then, what would be the target group? Indeed, the target group for non-alcoholic beverages at the place of issue is not just those who do not drink at all. Driving, working, pregnancy, medication or illness are incompatible with alcohol consumption, which is why we want an alcohol-free alternative. Others want to schedule the consumption of alcoholic beverages only to specific situations, otherwise limit their own consumption of alcohol or their choice not to drink just to support one to whom alcoholic beverages are developing into a problem. High-quality non-alcoholic beverages sold on a liquor stand would enable a larger proportion of customers to choose the non-alcoholic option instead of alcohol. Although the range of non-alcoholic products has increased in the place of consumption, the range of products is still too limited in relation to the need and the growing demand. The legislation should establish the availability of products at all places of sale — and I can say from this point of view that I have a lot of experience over the years, while saying that, of course, many restaurants have different customer groups taken into account and usually have non-alcoholic options, but there are still surprisingly many where it really is water, coffee or soda. Yes, I know that one of you MPs, who I asked to sign this initiative, said, "Well, there is water there." Well, the water of the oldest buttermaker, yes, there is water. But would it not be today and today that different consumers, including those of us who would like those non-alcoholic alternatives, would be offered more than water, soda or, more often, coffee that may have already been fried? This often comes up at the nearby gate bar, where I try to watch these hockey games, and then I look at the shelves filled with fine bottles of length. In other words, there are dozens of choice there when it comes to alcoholic beverages, but the non-alcoholic ones are still very limited. Then, if you think about this alcohol policy and the debate on it, it is often linked or strongly focused on the availability and price of alcohol, and that is understandable. But while these factors play a very important role in reducing the harmful effects of alcohol consumption, the debate often forgets the important role of alcohol in social situations. Alcohol is strongly linked to social interaction, and social pressure often affects alcohol use and consumption. Many talk about the importance of social pressure and the impact on young people’s drinking and drinking habits, but it also plays a major role in older age groups. The consumer has a higher threshold for choosing a non-alcoholic option, even if there is room for will if only water, soft drinks and coffee are available. Investing in and increasing non-alcoholic products could also reduce alcohol consumption in social situations. Therefore, we have drawn up this bill precisely in such a way that, at the moment, when the legal text on the minimum drink range states that a sufficient range of soft alcoholic beverages and affordable non-alcoholic beverages should be available at the place of sale, we would add two phrases: "The alcohol-free alternative to each product group should also be available. The non-alcoholic option belonging to the product group shall not be required if this is not available on the market." As I said earlier, this does not bring any significant inconvenience or expense for the owner and those who work there, but is very simply feasible. And as has been said, the range of non-alcoholic products has expanded. Alcohol-free products are already available in many places, but unfortunately there are still far too many places to drink where not all customer groups are sufficiently taken into account. I also think that, although this in itself is a legal provision to make two sentences, an addition to this one paragraph, for example, when a menu is planned for dinner and a good one is planned, suitable for white wine or red wine, and many times there is also a beautiful menu written about it next to the plate, I would hope that the operators will also take the catch in such a way that the menu would be followed by an alternative to white wine without alcohol and red wine without alcohol, and also in such a way that, when many times the waiters tell about the menu and different products today and then show what red wine or white wine belongs to it, I hope it would be quite a habit to show that as an alcohol-free alternative we have this or this wine, so that when the waiter comes to the place, there will be no unnecessary bulls when we ask if there is an alcohol-free alternative. Surprisingly often, even in the food service of this house, there have been occasions in the dinner service that the nonalcoholic alternative was that water. Then someone else has been found somewhere else. Not long before I was at the theater premiere: the beautiful counter at the theater restaurant had more bottles of wine, but that coffee and water were the only non-alcoholic alternatives. We have many opportunities to control alcohol consumption. Wine is a drink of the wise, so it has been said, and I also think, in connection with this bill, that supply increases demand. It is today to take account of different customer groups. "Time, Uncle" is my general slouga, which would be hoped to be carried out more often. It may become easier to implement more if the alcohol-free option is available. Pregnancy, medication or certain diseases — there are many situations when it really does not fit. I also think of many who very often, perhaps more times a week, find themselves in situations where alcohol is available. It is also wise and reasonable to consider and limit one’s own drinking in such a way as to perhaps leave that alcoholic drink in certain situations, perhaps for special occasions, or at least it would be reasonable for those who use more alcohol from time to time to choose the nonalcoholic alternative. I wish you'd read this bill. As I said, there are signatures from all parties and groups, and I thank you for that. I hope that this piece of legislation can and will contribute to reducing the harm caused by alcohol and its use and, in a certain way, making the drinking culture fairer and more correct. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u222	Mr President! I did listen carefully to the presentation by Mr Tanus of this amendment to section 25 of the Alcohol Act, and, admittedly, it would seem rather absurd for us to be obliged to offer certain drinks to restaurant operators. It is true that, according to what products are bought, they are also being served in restaurants there. And, of course, the extent of the non-alcoholic options has increased very much over the last few years. I myself like to take a non-alcoholic option a lot of times. I am perhaps the most critical of that speech that this consumer's own responsibility has been left to the very side when it comes to drawing up this initiative. You know if you want to take the alcohol or non-alcoholic option when you go to the restaurant: is the driver, is he pregnant and so on? Well, it's usually known. But as far as these two initiatives and this alcohol policy as a whole are concerned, that is what we must strive for more alcohol consumption in those controlled conditions, especially in restaurants, because it also improves the economy and employment more than it does in home conditions. That is why we must be able to change this culture of ours in order to perhaps go to restaurants a little earlier, but also to be able to drink those alcoholic beverages there rather than at home. It is good that this overall reform of the alcohol law now affects the opening hours of restaurants and also those of the entrepreneur's freedom of action there, because it improves this aspect. But the sum summarum: These two initiatives that are here are a little difficult to support. Of course, this will be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u223	Mr President! I was asked to speak on the initiative of Mr Räsänen, who has also been signed by Mr Tanus. After all, here in Parliament there is an amendment to the alcohol law which is already being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and whose content is crucial here in the plenary session, the government will be open and kind enough to allow MPs, including MPs from government parties, to vote in favour of the percentage they have found to be desirable. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Räsässe: What, in particular, does it make you feel positive about allowing this alcoholic beverage containing up to 3.5 % volume of ethyl alcohol in the grocery trade? When you are a doctor, is there a particularly good argument that it is this 3.5 percent? I think that an alcohol-free option is a good option from time to time, and you would think that's exactly what you'd be in favour of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u224	Mr President! After all, the government has put forward a proposal which, in my opinion, is a very moderate compromise proposal which also reforms very old legislation on alcohol in a way that breaks down red tape. I fully support that. If, as Mr Savola said, there is still something in the committee that can de-bureaucratise and really promote alcohol drinking in the restaurant rather than drinking at home, then that is a good thing. I myself lived in Luxembourg for six years, where so-called strict liquor was present in all shops. I didn't see any particular problems there. It is also a matter of a long-standing alcohol culture that has also clearly changed among Finnish young people in a healthier direction, and that is a very good thing. President! What I think should be addressed is the strong tax exemption for Swedish and Tallinn ships. Now that it also involves maritime aid, these ships, which have become partly department stores and partly baths, are unfairly competing with domestic restaurants and spas and thus eating up Finnish jobs and creating an unhealthy competitive situation, at least with regard to this tax subsidy. I think that we should really look at this now in such a way that it can also be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u225	Mr President! There are not many ten years since the ideals of almost all parties in society included sobriety. The parties had different sobriety groups, they were strongly supported and they were very key players within the parties. Since then, time has changed and we have left the idea that when everyone is released, then everyone will be able to drink right. That is not how this is going to work in practice. Therefore, the only right way is to control the availability of alcohol in a good way and put it in such controlled places for sale, from which people who feel that stronger drinks are needed can apply. I think that this debate on alcohol in Finland has always been a somewhat difficult art, but yet these facts should be very clearly acknowledged by everyone and not imagined that suddenly this country, when there is no such debate in sight, would somehow have learned to use alcohol in such a way that it would not cause harm. Now that we are in the EU, there are many of these agencies in Finland and there are many workers from Europe, the biggest wonder they have is this drinking culture that is in Finland, and at least that does not change by increasing availability.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u226	Mr President! Congressman Kiviranta asked why 3.5 per cent. Well, there are three reasons for this. Firstly, it is precisely the limit proposed by the government's draft law to say that it would be the most effective way at the moment, including the way in which the National Institute for Health and Welfare (Health) is investigating these alcohol-related harms. This 3.5% limit has also been proposed several times by the Medical Association and is the same limit as in Sweden. So there is experience and there are also recommendations from experts. I am not in favour of the Prohibition Act and there is no prohibition in this proposal. There was a reference here to the fact that alcohol culture has changed, especially among young people, and it is true that we have made good progress in recent years. This trend is very much due to the fact that we have had quite a good alcohol policy in recent years. In other words, we have five successive increases in alcohol tax since 2008, two passed legislative amendments restricting alcohol advertising and these have had a positive impact on both alcohol consumption and then harm. This should not jeopardise this positive development with the proposals made by the government. The most effective means of affecting alcohol harm and alcohol consumption are price, availability and advertising. These are the means, and they should be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u227	Mr President! Representative to Savola I would say that yes, most often a woman knows if she is pregnant, most often a person knows if you are taking some medicines or if you are ill in a way that alcohol does not fit the situation. On the other hand, it is often unknown what you can get from that diner or restaurant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u230	Mr President! It occurred to me that, Mr Savola, you said that it would be absurd if the entrepreneur were told what drinks should be available. But I would remind you that even now the Alcohol Act provides that a sufficient selection of mild alcoholic beverages and affordable non-alcoholic beverages must be available at the place of issue. In other words, even at the moment, these regulations are being passed on to the entrepreneur, and I personally regard this as a representative. The initiative taken by Mr Tanus is to be supported and not too heavy a burden for the entrepreneur either. But it is true that customers should also be more active, so always in the restaurant also ask for the non-alcoholic option. In this way, the consumer's wishes will also be better for the entrepreneur, even in these circumstances, when Mr Tanus' good bill is not yet in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u231	Mr President! I do believe that, as Mr Räsänen said at the end of his speech, consumer choice is what is offered in restaurants. And if there are some products they want, then yes, a shrewd entrepreneur they will be served. On the contrary, this government has tried to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy. Representative Räsänen described how the Alcohol Act currently provides for mild alcoholic beverages and non-alcoholic beverages. I absolutely believe that it is enough, and the rest of the kind of supply the entrepreneur makes up in the way in which customers want and want to respond to different products. I certainly do not want bureaucracy to be increased in such a way that there is a certain repertoire, which every entrepreneur should have. In this context, I cannot support this initiative by Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u232	Mr President! I still have to address this initiative, because here the bill requires that the alcohol-free option for each product group should be. Now that we think of all the alcoholic beverages we have — beer, cider, breezer, tentacles, coss, whiskey, cognac and so on, everything in the world, what is it — then, in practice, going through an initiative like this would mean that the selection would begin to decrease from the other side as well. The freedom of an entrepreneur to try is the key to all. It is a good thing that there are alcohol-free alternatives, and I am sure that there is agreement on that. Each of us likes sometimes to take it, but we cannot force the entrepreneur to make certain product groups just have to be found there. We'll all find them, we'll celebrate and there'll be different options. When asked, those entrepreneurs will also provide them. At least I believe that an entrepreneur has the freedom to try as he wishes. Efforts have been made to dismantle bureaucracy and dismantle it, both with regard to alcohol law and with regard to many other obstacles to trying, so the lives of entrepreneurs will not be made any more difficult. I'm sure that if this kind of bill were actually going through and it were going to go to those companies in real life, then there would not be very good singing about us parliamentarians, that we would have come up with another such decree here, which then has nothing so much to do with its reality. I have to thank Congressman Tanus and a representative. I want you to know that you have taken such legal initiatives, that we can discuss the different aspects of alcohol policy, and this has not been such an emotional debate as it was a few weeks ago. We have been able to speak properly about both sides of the matter. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health will then be able to deal with the alcohol bill, it will come to the Chamber and we will vote in accordance with our conscience and we will proceed with a good consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u233	Mr President! I still have to say to Mr Savola that there are no really non-alcoholic or non-alcoholic cognacs and so on, and it was said that if there are no such things, there is no need to try somewhere to get or start to do. Then what would be the reaction of restaurant entrepreneurs if such a piece of legislation were to go through, and hopefully it will go through: I would say that the progressive restaurants that follow their time — that is, some of the restaurants that already exist — would say that it will not change their activities in any way, because they have, for example, the non-alcoholic beer, the non-alcoholic cider and the non-alcoholic red and white wine, when this was the case with certain large groups of products, there would be one non-alcoholic alternative. When it was said that there would be more bureaucracy, I do not understand in any way in this connection that there would be more bureaucracy if there were really one non-alcoholic option. On the contrary, if I think about this current piece of legislation, that there should be a sufficient selection available at the place where the liquor is sold, then we could start talking about how many people actually think there is an adequate choice without alcohol, if there is water, if there is coffee and if there is soda. So is this purpose of the present law fulfilled by it? Is the text of the current piece of law really sufficient for the growing, growing and even now quite large group of customers who, for one reason or another, want an alcohol-free alternative? Is it enough if there's water, coffee and soda? In my opinion it is not, i.e. in such a sense, the addition of two sentences would only clarify the purpose of this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u234	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u235	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! Firstly, I would like to say that I am very pleased that this bill on the amendment of the Health Care Act, the amendment to its Articles 45 and 50, has been signed by all parties, but also by government parties, not only then by the Blue Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u236	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Henriksson for this initiative, because it gives us a great opportunity to discuss here what this restructuring of special medical care is all about. The on-call services in social and health care and the division of work in hospitals are indeed being reformed, and the implementation of the reform is part of a larger reform of social and health care and regional reform and will be implemented gradually. The amendments to the Health Care Act and the Social Welfare Act have already entered into force since the beginning of this year. The division of work in 24-hour emergency hospitals, the gathering of surgical operations and the opening of joint emergency services for health care and social services will take place under the regulations of the Health Care Act from the beginning of next year. Why is this reform being carried out? The aim is to improve the quality of care and care, to make professionals sufficient and to curb the increase in costs. In its current form, the Health Care Act gives the region a great deal of power to define how health care and surgery are organised, especially in the case of a university hospital district. At the same time, however, legislation lays down certain framework conditions for anesthetic surgery throughout the country. A more precise division of labour will help to increase quality and patient safety. By developing the division of labour, it is also ensured that healthcare professionals and money will be enough to provide services in the future in an ageing Finland. But what do you want to do to replace the surgery? In the case of regional hospitals, the share of surgery in the hospital budget is typically quite small. If I understand correctly, in my area of Upper Savo at Iisalme Regional Hospital, this is less than 5%. It is important to discuss the role the hospital will play in the future as a provider of local services. For example, cancer or breakage in relation to rehabilitation and the biggest work begins only after surgery. These regional hospitals still play an important role. In the future, health care will be more than just walls. The development of health technology and medicine will bring more and more services to be tailored and home. Also, with the renewal of emergency care, the service often comes home and there is no need to go to the emergency clinic itself in milder cases. Professionals will continue to work in all hospitals. No hospital will be closed because of this reform. In the big picture of the Sote reform, the goal is to shift the focus from heavy and expensive services to basic strengthening. There is also a need to invest more in low-threshold services in the division of work in hospitals, to strengthen the skills needed in the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of major national diseases in our ageing population. Especially demanding surgeries usually take place only once or twice in life. Even for smaller operations, you can easily travel a little further. The most important thing is that often the services needed and the specialists in the special fields who are needed more are close to people in everyday life. Regional hospitals can and must continue to have a wide range of specialist expertise. There are a lot of procedures that can be done without anesthesia. In regional hospitals, for example, there will be the possibility of cataract surgery and various outpatient surgery without anaesthesia, such as in the field of ear diseases, hand surgery or gynaecology, measures in the field of internal diseases and neurology, various ostomys, cytostatic and other cancer treatments — excluding radiotherapy — dialysis and rehabilitation, for example, after hip surgery. Mr President! For example, when an elderly person falls at home, the shortest part of treatment takes place in the operating room. They may spend an hour there, but it takes as easily as 50 days in rehabilitation. The most important part of rehabilitation starts after surgery and plays an important role in regional hospitals. The way Grandma's doing at home after the procedure is central. It is therefore essential that the basic health and social care services are accessible to every citizen and that the activities of the hospital support the health promotion and recovery of the population of the region in an appropriate and also cost-effective way. Mr President! Finally, why are the surgeries being put together? The amendment of the Health Care Act adopted by Parliament at the turn of the year and the regulations adopted in August on emergency care, special care division of work and the centralisation of certain tasks improve patient safety and the quality of care. Both Finnish and international studies show that the average number of patients in small units is higher and the results of the treatment are worse. Of course, there are well-functioning and high-quality small units, but, on average, in large units, for example, cancer surgery and artificial joint surgery are more successful. In small surgeries, too, the large unit often develops more skills that enable a better patient safety and quality system. Small hospitals and private health care units have generally performed minor surgical procedures often by day surgery. However, when these patients are discharged after the procedure, they cannot be discharged at once. Depending on patient choice and procedure, between 1% and 10% of patients will be hospitalised overnight. Similarly, about 5% of patients have to return from their home to hospital for evaluation after surgery, for example because of suspected complications. Thus, smaller surgical units should also have 24-hour emergency services. The Health Care Act requires continuous 24-hour emergency services from cutting hospitals in case of surgery requiring anesthesia in a hospital. In this case, for example, after surgery, it is possible to quickly evaluate the patient’s condition by a surgical specialist. Mr President! It was a pleasure to read in the paper today that in the Kanta-Häme area, where these changes have caused great preoccupation, the Forssa Regional Hospital and Hämeenlinna have reached an agreement on the division of duties and the estimate is that only four nurses' posts need to be transferred to Hämeenlinna. This is really good news for me, and I am encouraging all regions to look ahead, find its common tone and think about the division of labour, because the aim of everyone is that there is enough workers and that the quality of care is even better than it is today, not forgetting that, with the right division of labour, we can also take care of this very important regional policy dimension. It is precisely in these post-operative measures, which we all want to see happen close to the relatives, in this rehabilitation, that we have a lot to develop, and those jobs are valuable in our regions where there is a regional hospital. Let's take the Stealth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u237	Mr President! Our original sin has been that we have systematically wanted to paint a picture of the fact that only the largest units in Finland are professional, safe and of high quality, and it is very damaging also for non-hospital services. In fact, it seems that Finland has been sworn to concentrate on the name, and it has been particularly fatal for regional hospitals. The question must also be asked whether the limit of 600 operations required for joint replacement operations has been sufficiently well thought out. Nor can research provide an unambiguous basis for this, and in other countries, for example, when compared with other countries, these limits are considerably lower than those currently drawn into Finland. It is therefore essential for patient safety that the smaller units have undergone very thorough surgery planning. And there has been no desire to take any unnecessary risk, but it has been considered that if there are even greater risks in the operation, then the surgery has not been performed in the smaller unit. This has led, contrary to what Mr Heikkinen said here, to the fact that in many smaller units quality has been even better than in the corresponding larger units. It also seems to be a very strange saving measure that, although 75% of the people who are operated on at Rauma Regional Hospital, for example, are Raumans — that is, 75% of the people in Rauma, this amount in day surgery is even higher — they are now being transported to Pori and then brought back to Rauma for rehabilitation. The advance planning is done in Rauma. What's this gonna save?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u238	Mr President! We all know in this Chamber where Mr Henriksson's initiative is headed: it is on its way to the cemetery of legal initiatives. However, I wanted to sign this initiative because I believe that it is precisely the concentration of day surgery requiring anesthesia in central hospitals, i.e. the cessation of regional hospitals, that is to say, that one more debate is worthy. At the same time, we can, of course, discuss the role of regional hospitals in the wider context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u239	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Henriksson for taking this initiative. No matter where it ends, I think it is good that this debate is now taking place so that those who are behind the restructuring of special medical care understand what they are doing with the presentation to produce total health care in Finland, where at the moment private medical care is producing a huge amount of municipal services. If I have understood correctly, this is the steak of this bill, that is really this, that the centre, and especially the coalition, understand what is happening here. I am also surprised to read that Timo Kestinen himself at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health assures me that this has been a sincere intention to act as it is here. So I'm really going to think about it and ask myself, "What's the ultimate purpose?" Maybe the people around can answer that question. So, in all its wire version, the same requirements are now being extended to the private service provider when the public buys the operation as a purchasing service, and this is rightly justified by patient safety, but what is happening here? At the moment, the private side produces almost the largest volume of all of this so-called cutting pot. Then — this is like a PowerPoint performance — is this so-called big ball, medium ball and then just a small ball with the special medical care that is centralized in university center hospitals. Now that the public sector is buying this so-called soft surgery, the situation is that if this private side completely ceases these soft surgery procedures because of these new demands — that there should be the anesthesiologist 24/7 as it were present — then the public side will not survive this. The private side will survive. They will find new things to operate on and new things to treat, but what this produces is that the lines of surgery come back. It has not been very many years — tell us how many years — since the law was reformed and the time limit for access to treatment became the limit. The public side didn't make it, even though the law was passed. What did they do then? All the municipalities and cities bought this so-called soft surgery service on the private side, and I remember how the City of Espoo, of which I am myself, bought 600 biliary, cataract and other operations on the private side and very quickly managed to remove the lines of surgery. Well, the public side realized that this cooperation is going well: we can compete for these cuts and buy those services from the private side and it works and everyone is happy. Now this is leading to the fact that the private side simply states and thanks that hey, great demand, but we will not go to that race, you can cut these yourself, then we will cut something else. I hope that this debate, in all its simplicity, will now take place, that this has been a sincere purpose. If that has been the purpose of the regulator, the government here, then it will go, but the consequences may be quite fatal. Here, Mr Henriksson's bill states very well: 'The concentration measures already taken in practice have led to major problems'. The public side is not pulling these volumes, which is now coming to it through this reform. These are not our large health centres, Pihlajalinna, Terveystalo, in vain to choose and raise this issue to debate. They do have professional lawyers who are following this legislative process and when they raise this concern, we parliamentarians are obliged to take it up and tell them that they may be wrong, misunderstood if that is the case. The Christian Parliamentary Group called the Ministry of Health and asked whether this was the case as these health care managers claim, and we were told that this is the case and that is what we have wanted. And now I'm asking, why?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u240	Mr President! I recall, in time, when the citizens' initiative and the bill from the Vaasa regional hospital were discussed, I mentioned the suspicion that the RKP would hardly come up with an initiative to defend the hospital services of Kouvola, for example. However, now that there are other signatories from the RKP, an initiative which is now also concerned about that part of Kouvola, I think it is a certain honour to become a liability to take a stand on this initiative. I believe that the proposal, which is at the heart of it, is to be supported. It raises concerns which are certainly worthy of consideration in the debate. It makes sense to concentrate demanding or rare operations on large-scale emergency hospitals, but on the other hand there are a lot of things that would genuinely make sense to manage regionally sufficiently decentralisedly. The distances are long in our country. This alone dictates certain framework conditions for the provision of these services. For example, in South-East Finland, where distances are still short compared to Northern Finland, there is also Mikkeli and Savonlinna in the Kouvola region, which are all going to be left without a large emergency hospital. However, there are large population bases in these areas, and distances are such that the trip to the hospital can easily be a day’s duration. It is unreasonable with regard to the conduct of acute matters and repeated operations. I therefore hope that the issues of this initiative, which raises this good and important issue, will be genuinely taken into account in the process of social reform, recognised and followed up by the facts raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u241	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here, but first of all thanks to Mr Henriksson for drawing up this initiative. With regard to this initiative, there is no alternative but to actually pass it and put it into practice. At the time of the on-call reform, we had many discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and also in this Chamber, and we had already seen these things. And that is precisely when we used, I do not know, dozens of speeches and tried to influence us that the on-call reform would not have been carried through as it was then bludgeoned through. For example, we in Tampere have the fortunate situation of having a university hospital, but we have a good, beautiful city hospital with a good operating room, and there all surgery would stop unless these arrangements were made under one of its organisations, so that, as it were, there would be a joint emergency service for basic health care and special medical care. Then, as Mr Laukkanen put it, thinking about this day’s surgery as a whole, the day’s surgery is one big part, and it can be done in very many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u244	Mr President! I too have signed Mr Henriksson's initiative. I believe that there is a need to discuss social welfare reform, social services and also this health care law. We do not yet have a social welfare reform, but its central principle is to guarantee equal services for Finns. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed extensively in its own report, but I do not understand that it dealt with regional access to services, which is also linked to equality. I guess there's gonna be a mile off, so the services aren't equal anymore. The problem here has been that we do not really have the provincial administration in which we could discuss how these equal services will be secured in that province, but that is now done by hospital districts, in my own province, far from it by officials. There are different ways of preparing for war in different regions. My own province, Varsinais-Suomi, is the worst in this, in fact, the proper preparation for the whole region has not yet begun. There are some preparations in Turku, there are some preparations in the Swedish-speaking regions, something in the hospital district, but there is no such extensive joint survey, and it is said that the county centre is holding back, as it seems to be. I think there are two things here: on the one hand, this day surgery, anesthetic surgery, on the other hand, and on the other hand, basic emergency services. After all, day - to - day surgery is done in many district hospitals, in nearby hospitals in a very effective way. I know that, for example, Loimaa Regional Hospital is known to be very efficient and competent. On the other hand, since the hospital district has left and the strategy is that no new ones will be built in place of existing facilities, I do not think that we should rush into this day surgery. This is a university hospital, and it would be possible if the hospital district decided to do so. We know that it causes some costs, perhaps in this case this call for emergency services is too extensive — I am the figures without a doctor, but I am not familiar with this. On the other hand, I am familiar with these figures on public finances, and although it is urgent, of course, such a reform should be able to carry out these impact assessments all the time, that what are the costs, on the other hand, of services. And then we come to this basic emergency room and the role of the provinces and also there in the border regions of the provinces. There is always talk of these curses in the provinces, and they can now become so in this reform. For example, my own hospital is on the border of four provinces, in fact it is built there as a joint hospital of 16 municipalities. Now we're running out of basic night duty. Then the New Town also ends basic night duty. Then, from Sastamala, the great volleyball operator of the President-in-Office, we run out of night duty. There's gonna be a big hole in the borders of the provinces. It's already 100 kilometers from the corner of our town to the nighttime emergency service at NURSE. In other municipalities too, as the hours of on-call work are getting smaller, TYKS has already been virtually blocked, and there is talk from the field that no services are available and that patient safety is being compromised. I don't think anything serious has happened yet, but this is constantly coming up against me. So maybe we'll have to make some of those new facilities. Now the emergency care unit has asked for 2 million more money, that is, 30 new nurses should be able to get to TYKS quickly. Now they say it's gonna be all right. Primary health care costs EUR 500000, at most. It is said that one ambulance call costs EUR 1000 if all costs are calculated. Usually one visit causes two trips, has to go and come. When it is 365 days a year, if we prevent one unnecessary basic emergency service, it is almost paid for. Are there any such unnecessary visits to the central hospital? Yes, there are. For example, elderly people can have nocturnal seizures,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u247	Mr President! Representative Salonen described the expertise and division of labour of very small and large hospitals. After all, it is not always the case that in the bigger one it necessarily needs to be better than in the smaller one. The personal experience is very close to the long struggle in Ähtäri on behalf of its own regional hospital, which of course took place internally within the hospital district, and after a close vote the hospital district decided to close down. 103 jobs, most of which — these nurses ’ jobs — moved to Seinäjoki, and the signs of pain are, of course, visible. Well, of course, we got along and started thinking about new options. Our option was to produce services in private through a social enterprise, where municipalities and Pihlajalinna formed their own company, Kuusiolinna Oy, which now produces health care services there at our home. In this context, we have had the opportunity to re-establish the operation of our own regional hospital, and this surgery will of course bring back at least some of those jobs. It is precisely the day-surgery measures that have been discussed. Many times you think about these very dark pictures, such as what is being brought to us for patient safety. In my opinion, patient safety is not just about being in large units. There are a lot of things about patient safety. It is up to the local experts that there are the right people to give that good care. — — — — I'll be in the front. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : The representative may continue to speak on the floor. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u250	Mr President! I am also grateful that this initiative is here. When you read the text of this initiative and then look at the signatories, it comes to mind whether all the signatories have read the text under which they have put their names. Why am I asking this question? This is a counter-question to those who have asked during this debate what the Centre or the Coalition Party has thought of in a situation where the Health Care Act has been prepared and, since the adoption of the Health Care Act, regulations have been established, whether service providers are equal in situations where, for example, patient safety is being discussed. The previous speaker, and now deliberately I do not speak by name, said: 'and are not suitable for this type of hospital'. We are talking about hospitals which, according to the law, have not existed in this country since the 80s, the 80s, the level of which health care meant, for example, a four-day period of four-day hospitalisation for the examination of the experienced generation. We came to the '90s, went to a knee-to-knee in the morning and left at night. Today, the same knee endoscopy is performed as a half-day procedure. Here’s the answer for those who asked if people moved from A to B for nothing. We are in a situation where the nature of the measures that require a special level of service, a service in which professionalism and volumes are important, within health care has fundamentally changed in the last few years, let alone decades. I will continue to say this: I very much appreciate the work that those professionals, women and men are doing in hospitals other than central hospitals. Why I am grateful that this initiative is here is linked to the possibility of even trying to have a debate on what patient safety means in the 2020s. This initiative begins, the text of the first paragraph states: 'However, the provisions have implications which are more far-reaching than those discussed.' I have some knowledge of the preparation, both of the amendment to the Health Care Act and of these regulations, which provide certain framework conditions for doing what can be done in different hospitals in the future. My personal wish has been to reach even the year 2017 for those things where we are already with the knowledge, the doing and the measures that are today, even to the level of the passages of this day, not to mention where we are going. This story or text about a knee-to-the-generation observation in the 1980s, the early 1990s and what it is today is one scratch of how the level of knowledge in our healthcare has evolved. One part of patient safety is that when a person needs a service, he can be sure that he will receive it in the fastest way possible, the fastest possible way of the service. Today’s daily life is that in the event of a myocardial infarction, an emergency care unit with an EMT is going home, or in areas where doctors have not had enough, a highly trained professional with a nurse’s background, a nearby nurse’s background is going home, starting treatment, ending up on the operating table, and recovering from a situation where the solution has already been started at home and not until somewhere else along the way. He's saved a lot of lives, and that's what's for patient safety. One life that is lost because the system does not work is too much. One human life that has been lost because of the fact that first person A has been taken to the nearest unit on duty where nothing has been done in a situation where, for example, it has not been enough for those professionals to be on call, for example, is too much. The life that has been lost because of the loss of time is just as valuable. Local operators know best about the service network. Mr President! This initiative lists two cities that would be affected by this initiative if it were to take place — and I would say, in the interest of certainty, that I recognise the basis on which it was taken, and I would say that it would probably affect the functioning of these hospitals. But in that list of cities that the first signatory of the initiative read... I have today's information about one hospital district in which within the hospital district — not in the yo-hospital district — there has been an agreement on a division of labour which corresponds to the provisions in force. And once I have heard what this regulation is about, for example in terms of the regional economy and jobs, there has been talk of the loss of hundreds of jobs. According to the current estimate, when there is a division of work within the hospital district, note that there is a division of tasks — an estimate, of course, and there may be something else final — there is talk of 4 htp, a situation which has been mentioned in this Chamber too, that the fate of the hospital in question is the loss of several hundred jobs in that area. In the case of another city, mentioned in that list of cities by the person who signed the initiative, it has been possible to solve the investments within the hospital district in such a way that new hospitals are built in a two-pin province, not because more capacity is needed, but because the facilities are almost unusable because of mold or some other problem in those facilities. We've moved on. One thing that I stressed time and again in my previous role was the need for cooperation. It has to be admitted that both the sections of the Health Care Act, which were adopted by Parliament at Christmastime, and the regulations adopted since the adoption of the Health Care Act, which set certain limits in the future, are quite strict. But it is possible to implement the regional specificities that have been spoken many times as long as there is cooperation. When there is no unity, consensus within the region, in a situation where there is a mandate to negotiate, agree, make decisions where the regional economic losses are not as painted in horror scenarios, it is not the fault of the country's government or parliament, in situations where there are so many, many reasons. If Finnish health care were to be built on a completely clean table today, it is quite clear that the network of our buildings would be very different. Today we are faced with a situation in which both the government of the country and the parliament, in so far as the majority decision has been taken by the parliament, have built it up in search of flexibility, seeking ways in which the threats of the worst horror scenarios would not materialise. What is patient safety? It is that there are enough professionals, that people, regardless of the size and place of residence of the money bag, are able to access the service, there are no qualifiers where creams are selected from the top and those easy cases are treated and the more difficult ones are left to someone else. And the question of who has wanted and what has wanted in relation to the distribution of work between the public and private sectors: yes, I am surprised, especially with regard to those in this Chamber who have resented the government's actions over the last few months in relation to the future of social and health care,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u251	Mr President! First of all, thank you for a good debate for all those who are still able to be here in the great Chamber of Parliament this evening. I understand, of course, that the previous speaker, who has also been a minister and responsible for this reform, is defending it, and that is very natural. But I was still left with a big question mark as to what the government really meant when the government, with this solution, now in practice also excludes the private sector from these cuts. It's a big question mark for me. That is also why it is a little sad that there is no one here from the assembly, because it would be nice to have a debate with them now on whether this was the intention. Is it the case, then, that the Ministry does not trust that patient safety will be carried out on the private side, even though these simple operations, day-to-day surgery, are carried out every day, even today? Earlier today, I also received a paper from the Welfare Association, in which they have explained at national level how much private surgery is in Finland, and this estimates that there are more than 30 private operations in more than 30 localities, that there are at least 170 operating theatres in use, that the total number of operations to be carried out is in the order of 70,000 and that most of these operations require anaesthesia. So now that anesthesia is at the heart of it — it's like a football team or a volleyball team, which we also know about, would be taken away by the middle-field player, the one who feeds to others in such a way that it works and scores. If this middle-field player is removed from this crowd, what will happen? The same is happening in hospitals now. If anesthesia is pushed down, the safety of the patient will be reduced, as has already been pointed out in many speeches. For example, Mr Tanus, who is also a doctor in his profession, certainly knows what he is talking about here. There have also been calls from dentists who are very concerned that they feel that the government has also failed to understand how much anesthesia is needed in dentistry when different measures are taken. Disabled people, children in general are those patients who need anesthesia also in these procedures. Does it make sense, then, that everything should be concentrated in central hospitals, and what sort of bottlenecks will be created and what additional costs? At the same time, we are faced with a situation where we have empty operating rooms all over Finland, including good such rooms. For example, in my hometown, there are five operating rooms. It doesn't make sense to run a household. It cannot be a sensible financial management. And that is why we should have more debate on this issue. We are also responsible for taking far-reaching decisions that have huge spillover effects not only on individual parliamentarians but on the Finnish people and patients. Mr President! It is quite understandable that there is a need for a degree of division of labour between hospitals, and there is certainly a great deal of consensus on this. But simple surgeries where the patient comes to the hospital in the morning and goes home in the afternoon would still be wise to allow where they have worked well, where the service has been of high quality and the patients are satisfied. And it must be said that it is also strange to say that we have had municipal democracy for a hundred years, that we have decided in the municipalities what level of hospital activity we have, in the municipalities or joint municipal authorities. It is now in the process of transition, not even to the provinces, but to the central government of the state, which means that in practice the Ministry of Finance will decide on money and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will decide what to do where. In my view, this is not a desirable development from a democratic point of view either, and because the centre is now pushing for regional reform so strongly, I would have liked the centre to have pushed for self-government in which the provinces themselves can decide on these matters. It's with a big question mark. I understand that you want that regional reform, but then there should be a reform that also provides proper self-government and does not set up a system that means the guardianship of the state. Mr President! I am grateful for the debate, and certainly the debate will still be necessary, because the simplest solution — now that we see what this situation is like — if we do not want to adopt this bill, would now be to make such a change that this reform will only come into force when the social reform comes into force. It would buy time and could also consider what measures will be taken to find a solution that will not lead to chaos in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u252	Mr President! Thus, in accordance with the already adopted Health Care Act, surgical operations will be transferred to central hospitals in hospital districts from regional hospitals by the beginning of next year, with the exception of university medical districts. In these university medical districts, it may be decided to make an arrangement whereby cuts are made at several locations, but the volume of cuts and the quality requirements must be in order for each cutting unit. I will return to this non-universal hospital district in Kanta-Häme, which has just received very positive news today. The director, Seppo Ranta, says in that press release: "Even though surgery is being transferred to Hämeenlinna, a significant part of the specialised medical clinic activity continues or even becomes stronger in Forssa. The emergency services and X-rays also continue around the clock in the Forssa region." [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] Mr President! I would like to say here that, as Mr Henriksson, who tabled the bill in his previous speech, calls for regional decision-making, this also shows that today's news is that when there is willingness to agree together in the region, results will come. And let this model of Kanta-Häme be a good example for other regions in Finland, that we should leave politics at all levels of activity and trust that professionals in the field will be able to make the structural changes that ageing Finland needs. We all recognise that in an ageing Finland, we are forced to change the structures of medical care so that special care does not take up an ever-increasing lion's share, but we must be able to support basic services and rehabilitation — basic services, so that the services we often need are close and easily accessible, as is often the case at the moment. And the special services in that area that experts estimate are needed more, they are produced and brought closer, not as it is now, that expensive taxi rides drive people away to a special hospital or a university hospital, but that those professionals in their own fields come to that basic unit to take action and then also to investigate patients. This is a wise reform. Experts move, not thousands and thousands of people. Mr President! Mr Henriksson said about these empty halls. Those walls don't pay very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u253	Mr President! I didn't mean to ask for an answer, but I'd like to add a little bit. So if 10% of cutting capacity leaves the country quite quickly, of course it will have an impact. Of course it'll make a difference. And it'll make it worse if you're not prepared for it. The second question: I know this hospital in Forssa, and it is very good if there is a 24-hour basic emergency service there. They operate on 800 people a year. Why do we need those wards afterwards if we give the impression that there are only four fewer people in the workforce — I do not understand the number of doctors?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u254	Mr President! This is from Yle’s news — that it’s not something I invented, but it’s been on Yle’s website — and other signatories to this bill have also been involved in writing that section. Mr Heikkinen raised the question of how much can be done if things were agreed in the region. I can mention that there is also a situation in Ostrobothnia and in the Hospital District of Vaasa that we would very much like to agree. Vaasa Central Hospital is of the opinion that daily surgery should be allowed to continue at Pietarsaari Hospital, but that is now impossible with this law, as it is currently interpreted in the STM civil service machinery. That is why, in itself, this proposal or this law — not just a proposal, but it is already a law — is so worrying that it does not open up these possibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u255	And now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u256	Mr President! To begin with, I must say that I find it somewhat disparaging, that when we talk about such an important issue, we are accused of different opinions as politics here — why some of the representatives here are genuinely expressing their concerns and ideas about this reform or change of law, as it were, that it is only a question of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not fall to that level. We understand that even experts in this country are divided on this issue. Depending largely on which expert we want to hear, we may find the very idea, experience or similar contributions to the situation in our region. That is why it is demeaning to say that these other ideas are not just as real. I am also alien to the idea that this is a question of inability to cooperate. That's not the point. There will certainly be cooperation when it is said that the law has now entered into force and, of course, negotiations and discussions have had to start in the region and we have to consider how to proceed in the future. Of course, cooperation has been done before, and that is not the case. Why did I sign this initiative? We had a good debate on it with Mr Henriksson, and in part there are things that perhaps I am looking at in a different way. I myself have raised this point, which Mr Henriksson also pointed out at the end, that it would perhaps be the most sensible and important thing now to have that extra time until the social reform. It has been one of the most confusing things for me, at least, that, now that we are preparing for the most extensive and significant reform of the kingdom, where all social and health services are viewed on a completely new basis and on a map, and at least I myself have felt that the government has been very determined to encourage the regions themselves to consider, on its own initiative, what the proper and appropriate service network would be in the region and what the services will then be provided in the region, and it has also pointed out that the regions are different and possibly different solutions in the region, so why in the world could these things not be allowed to be decided in the region in the same context as the whole of social and health care services. That's one thing that's been hard for me to understand. Another point which I think is particularly valuable to raise and debate in this Henriksson bill is this difference of treatment, depending on the region in which you are located, that is, whether you are in a province with a university central hospital or whether you are in a province with only a central hospital unit. I have not yet found an answer to what is behind or behind this difference. In other words, if the province in which there is a central hospital specifically calls for patient safety that care should be centralised, for example, surgery must be concentrated for patient safety reasons, but then in another province with a university unit, just the same miles away, in a city of exactly the same size, in a unit of the same size, it is safe. This is one contradiction which I, at least, continue to criticise. Here, too, it is precisely in all regions that there should be an opportunity to cooperate and consult in a good spirit, how these services could be organised. Another important point is that we can easily discuss this operation, but we actually forget that there are many other measures, which are already very everyday measures. This is particularly the case now, through this anesthesiologist, that there, for example, an anesthesiologist is needed for heart rhythm transplants, for short-term anesthetics, even if in the colonoscopy, part of the dental procedures, as Mr Henriksson has pointed out here, but also in the treatment and hospice of the pain patient. And these are, as it were, local services, which I myself think should also be able to organise in a good service network and range, at least in medium-sized Finnish cities. This is one question which has not yet been properly answered, namely how these can be implemented in the future. I would therefore like to say that we are easily moving forward with reforms or changes, so that we want to stop and end first and then see what that future action could then be — when we could have left the other way round, that we are now creating that future action in the context of the social welfare reform and, as part of it, see whether it makes sense to change the network of on-call units, also to change the units and the network of cuts, and to look at the best services at regional level. And now that I'm saying this and I'm saying this, it's not politics. This is a genuine wish and a genuine debate initiative which I believe must be able to take place in Parliament with respect for one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-05-ps-99.u257	Mr President! There are so many high-end speeches here that you would wish the whole hall were full and this would have a worthy audience. Maybe there's people on the Internet watching this. Congressman Rehula here raised a few things, a few picks. He said, "Now we're talking about hospitals that haven't existed since the '80s." That is exactly what we agree on. He said, "The nature of health care has changed." On that, too, we fully agree. Then he talked about patient safety, it's at the heart of it, and we agree on that too. Then he said, "The fastest possible service possible." We also agree with this objective, unfortunately it is not being achieved at the moment. The average waiting time in Finland for special care is also 75 days. Then he said that there are not enough professionals and that is why there are these treatment lines. We agree on that, too. But he did not answer this basic question, which we have asked here about Mr Henriksson's bill, how the public sector, these central hospitals, whatever form they take, intends to deal with the cuts that the private side is now doing and which it cannot do in the future because of this reform. Yes, special care in Finland works. Finnish surgery is world-class. One of my surgeon friends will operate in Helsinki in the morning, go to the airport, take a private plane to Norway, cut there, come back and do it in the evening. Top-notch treatment is available in Finland. To the fact that we have a health law that seeks to improve practices, to bring concentration where it makes sense, we all say: welcome, that is a good direction. But how do these central hospitals, university hospitals cope with these surgeries that private hospitals are now doing? The Pohjola insurance company set up its own hospital because the central hospitals were unable to respond to the existing operating needs and these delays began to cost the insurance company so much that it was most economically sensible to set up their own hospital. Practical example: A woman feels a lump in her chest, goes with it to the hospital, to the public side. He gets a referral somewhere, waits maybe two or three weeks, and then he gets to the next stage. In most cases, possible surgery occurs after 3 to 6 months. While, for example, in this Oma Hospital or private hospital in the Nordic Region, the situation is such that when he comes there he will be taken to the tests immediately and he will get the results the next day and will be in surgery on the third day. This is the goal we should be able to achieve. Mr President! These are so great things that I wish we could all agree on this, that we are not now in favour of this... I would say this: could we not, as Mr Henriksson has pointed out, take it humbly and correct it?
