ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u1	For the second reading and for the sole reading, item two of the order of business will be presented. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 28 November 2017. In the course of the debate, Ms Krista Kiuru, supported by Ms Viitanen Krista Kiuru, 8 motions for statements under protest 1, Mr Yanar, supported by Ms Olli-Sonika Parviainen, tabled 2 motions for statements under protest 2, Ms Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Ms Hanna Sarkkinen, and Ms Veronica Rehn-Kivi, supported by Mrs Mats Löfström, supported by Mrs Mats Löfström, Mr Peter Östman, supported by Mrs Sari Essayah, submitted a proposal for a statement under protest 5 and Mr Ville Vähämäki, supported by Mrs Kankanniemi, made a proposal under protest 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u3	Pia Viitanen's proposal 5 and Ozan Yanari's proposal 1 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u4	Pia Viitanen's proposal 6 and Aino-Kaisa Pekonen's proposal 1 relate to the same thing, so first we will vote against Pia Viitanen's proposal 6 against Aino-Kaisa Pekonen's proposal 1 and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u5	Mr President! The intention was to vote 'yes' for Mr Östman, so I voted incorrectly. Can I fix it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u6	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u7	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 28 November 2017. In the debate, Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u8	The fourth item in the order of business is the topical debate on the reform of national regional use targets. The debate will be opened by the first signatory, representative and chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Satu Hassi. Mr Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister for Housing, Energy and the Environment, will speak next. Then you can reserve the floor with a P button and we will start the debate with two-minute speeches, and then we will move on to one-minute responses at some point. A total of 1.5 hours is reserved for the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u9	Mr President! National regional use targets specify planning requirements in accordance with the Land Use and Building Act, i.e. guide planning decisions in regions and municipalities. This instrument came into use when the Land Use and Building Act was renewed at the turn of the millennium. The Government has last revised the national regional use targets, i.e. the VATs in 2008, and now they are being reformed again. The previous Parliaments and the Environment Committees have stated that the matter should always be referred to Parliament in the course of the renewal of the decision. The Committee on the Environment believes that this should continue to be the case. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u12	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u13	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament and the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, for this opportunity to discuss the national objectives for the use of regions in Parliament's plenary session. Sustainable spatial planning creates the conditions for the well-being of residents, the sustainable use of the environment and natural resources and the long-term success of business. According to the Land Use and Construction Act, the aim is to organise the use of sites in such a way as to promote ecologically, economically, socially and culturally sustainable development. The basic task of national regional use targets is to ensure that national issues are taken into account in planning and decision-making on regional use. By using regional solutions, we support the transition to a low-carbon society, safeguard biodiversity and cultural environments, create opportunities for business renewal and provide tools for urban development challenges. The new targets also take into account changes in services, digitalisation and the ageing of the population. The national regional use targets now under discussion are grouped under five main themes: (1) functioning communities and sustainable mobility; (2) an efficient transport system; (3) a healthy and safe environment; (4) a vibrant natural and cultural environment; and natural resources; and (5) renewable energy. The reform of national regional use targets was guided by the Government Programme. It was found that the steering powers of national regional use targets are clarified in order to increase the local authorities' land use power and responsibility. This policy of the Government Programme formed the cornerstone of the reform work. In the preparation of the proposal, the Government Programme has been implemented in such a way that the renewed objectives are limited and more clearly limited to the most important national issues. The targets have also been reduced from around 70 to 17. This certainly clarifies their interpretation. The new targets also increase the mobility of municipalities and independent decision-making powers in land use. There has also been a reduction in overlap with sectoral legislation, and this is reflected in the quantitative decrease in the number of targets. The current Parliament took a position on national regional use targets in December 2015 in response to the legislative amendment to the closure of the regional planning procedure. At the time, Parliament stressed the role of national regional use targets in steering regional use. In its reply, the Parliament also stressed the responsibility of the regions to take account of and promote the objectives. These positions of Parliament have also been taken into account in the reform work. Of course, international agreements also guide Finland’s activities, and Finland’s obligations in implementing these agreements have been taken into account — in particular the objectives of sustainable development, conservation of biodiversity and international commitments on climate change. The proposal has identified in a balanced way the major issues of the future use of regions. They concern, on the one hand, the quality of people's daily lives and, on the other hand, the use of economic areas. With a few examples of concrete action: For example, the functioning of communities and the transport system goes hand in hand with living life, and this is well reflected in these proposed goals. In turn, the emphasis on business renewal has been well taken into account in the proposal from the point of view of the needs of a sustainable bio- and circular economy, among other things. I believe that the objectives expressed as clearly as possible, which focus on the most important issues, will clarify the importance of national regional use targets. They will also help the various parties to identify whether the objectives have been properly taken into account in the planning and decision-making process. This is important in planning, both in the provinces and municipalities. Mr President! In the preparation of this proposal, the municipalities responsible for planning and regional councils have been involved through their representatives, as well as the ministries making significant regional use solutions in their respective fields of activity. During the preparatory work, we also organised a number of workshops, discussion sessions and questionnaires, and the website of the reform has significantly expanded the number of participants and ensured the transparency of the preparation process. I would like to thank all those involved in this preparation, and in particular the working group responsible for preparing the work and its chairman, Mr Timo Korho, for his excellent work. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u14	Now we're gonna start the debat. At the outset, I will give you two minutes' speeches and they will begin by Mrs Korhonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u15	Mr President! In fact, in his own speech, the Minister went well over the background on which this proposal has now been presented overall. Perhaps a few aspects of the addition. So, first of all, when the national targets for the use of regions were actually reformed, the aim was to start by looking now at the challenges and trends of the future. I also believe that these objectives were met. Another important aspect of this work is the fact that this working group has come up with a very new, developing and enabling approach to reform. So in the working group we wanted to abandon the traditional problem-oriented and strict normistic, only restrictive, approach. Of course, as the Minister has said, this target setting also took account of the Government Programme, including the objectives of the Programme to promote employment and economic growth and reform regional governance, bearing in mind that national regional policy objectives are designed to create the conditions for a good environment and promote sustainable development. However, sustainable development must also be a global issue of regional development, maintenance and renewal, not just the issue of additional construction and planning, to which the current VAT has been widely targeted. On this basis, too, we assumed that these plans for regional use must enable the strengths of the various regions of the country to be exploited, i.e. they must take into account the different circumstances and geography of the different regions of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u16	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, and Minister Tiilikainen for their contributions. You raised the important points raised in this proposal and in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy: climate change, urbanisation, change in the industrial structure, renewable forms of energy production. On top of that, I would like to add transport-related aspects to which, for example, the idea of promoting sports practices, such as cycling, which are low-emission and which can be influenced in such a way that land use supports mobility. The second point that has not yet been raised in this debate, but which is reflected in the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment — and also in the opinion of our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy — relates to Finland's overall security, defence. The idea here is that land use must also reflect on the land use needs of the Defence Forces and the Border Guard, especially in areas where ownership goes beyond its own territory, as it were, and which may be of strategic importance to both the Defence Forces and the Border Guard. This debate and the idea suggest that we are aware that there has been land acquisition in some places, of which we do not know with any certainty what is behind it. And when we do not know that, we must act in such a way that, if necessary, both the Defence Forces and the Border Guard can influence and be wary of what is happening in the vicinity. This is also in line with the defence policy report
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u17	Mr President! Firstly, it is very good that these national land use targets are being discussed here in the Chamber and will continue to do so. There are possible changes in the management of the regional reform, and the committee particularly stressed the need to clarify and develop this interactive debate between the province and the Ministry of the Environment and to pay particular attention to the five specific issues raised here. I myself am raising climate change preparedness and adaptation and the transition to a low-carbon society. These are matters that are important in the whole kingdom, and they must also be taken into account in the provinces and municipalities. Urbanisation and the concentration of urban structures are also a clear tendence, but at the same time we must also consider how regional centres and regional centres can best create growth in their own region. Services, and transport in particular, must be considered from this point of view. The Committee strongly stressed the importance of rail transport as a key element in the organisation of transport systems both between cities and, in particular, within larger cities. It must also be borne in mind that when we look after and ensure the balanced development of the whole country, the capital region is, however, in a special position, because the capital region also competes for Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u18	Mr President! Of course, it is good to have a common frame for planning the use of regions and addressing the challenges of the future in terms of land use, both in current and future municipalities and regions, and it is for this purpose that national plans for regional use have been set up and that they are good to exist. It is worth noting that, even during this parliamentary term, legislation may have been developed slightly in the direction that the strengths of the regions, municipalities, regions and regions at local and regional level are increasingly manageable and can be decided upon, but it must nevertheless be remembered that all these local and regional regional strengths are not just local ones, they are in the hands of all Finns in relation to the cultural environment, climate issues, transport and so on. It is, of course, important that this continue to be the case, and that this trend should be maintained in the development of regional use targets, including national ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u19	Mr President! It is very good that the national targets for the use of regions are being reformed to reflect this social change. The objectives now being reformed are more feasible than before, rather than restrictive ones. It is very good that things are now also being made possible. In the future, when targets focus on matters of national importance, local land use solutions will have the necessary room for decision in the municipalities and regions in the future. This is very good because Finland is different in different parts of the world, the needs in different areas in Finland are different and those needs also need to be taken into account. It is also a good thing that, if necessary, these objectives recognise the central importance of the transport system, as its functionality and operational security and safety are also a prerequisite for the development of Finland as a whole. The transport infrastructure must be in order and it must be invested in in the future. The aim is, therefore, primarily to develop existing transport connections and transport networks, which is a good thing, but of course we need additional ones, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches. The transport system must be compatible with different modes of transport. In fact, you could say briefly that it is a very good principle that the new targets now strengthen the role of municipalities and regions in planning the use of regions, as it must be possible to live, live and try in Finland as a whole. Of course, in this context too, it is also worth noting the shift in work in such a way that functional broadband connections are also a basic requirement for the whole of Finland. For my part, I want to do the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u20	Mr President! Combating climate change is an essential aspect of the use of regions and planning of urban structures, in particular through the fact that the urban structure generates a great deal of transport needs and hence emissions, and on the other hand, regional structures and urban planning affect the conditions for public transport and light transport. In the future, adaptation to changes caused by climate change will become a big issue in Finland and in Finnish urban planning. Mr President! In addition to climate change, biodiversity issues must also be taken into account, since the depletion of biodiversity is not only climate change but also one of the major problems facing humanity. Species are dying, and the amount of insect biomass has collapsed and ecosystems are disrupting. Diversity must be taken into account in different areas and planning levels. Urban areas should also have organic biodiversity potentials for insects and other species, and, on the other hand, in Southern Finland, a wider range of protected areas should be possible, and diversity in general should also be an important planning factor. Mr President! It is important that these good objectives in spatial planning go through the entire land use planning system to practice and to all levels of planning. So this is also an important point of view in the future, that these objectives are of the same type from top to bottom and go in the same direction at different planning levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u21	Mr President! National targets for the use of regions can be regarded as a very important tool to ensure that national issues are taken into account in future use of regions. The importance of national regional use targets will be further emphasised in the future, as the more limited content of the targets will strengthen the role of regions and municipalities in the use of the regions. And the use of regions, as we have already said several times, has a long-term impact on regional and community structures and, among other things, on the development of the transport system. The reform of national regional use targets is necessary due to changes in the operating environment. In our opinion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have highlighted the fact that spatial planning is of a comprehensive nature and a coordinated approach to different interests, identifying operational needs and adapting them to environmental requirements. In addition, the use of regions in different parts of Finland will be further divided: some regions will become urbanised and condensed, while others will be reduced. It is therefore also important to recognise the importance of transport systems and, as a result of urbanisation, the importance of a dense urban structure not only in the management of climate change but also in the efficient planning of regions. In addition to this, it is very important that the objectives of regional use have also identified the maintenance of green and ecological links and the adequacy of recreational areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u22	Mr President! It is very good to have a debate in Parliament on this important issue, too, and I am very pleased that both in this opinion of our committee and also in that speech by the minister there was a strong international emphasis. After all, we are bound by many international agreements, such as the Paris climate agreement and, of course, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Perhaps the question in the Minister's direction on this issue is whether we are sufficiently agile then to meet any stricter demands, for example on climate issues. This question also arises from this committee's opinion. But, President-in-Office, perhaps I would draw attention to the less important role played by the citizens in this debate. I think that this debate on national regional use targets very often goes beyond the mere talk of administration, and I would like to see the citizen put at the centre too. For example, the objective of a healthy and safe living environment will certainly address many Finns. I have not always been quite convinced that the government's will in these matters is strong enough if we look, for example, at the way in which amendments to the Land Use and Building Law have been introduced here in Parliament, for example, where there are increasingly limits to the possibilities for complaints from citizens. It does not always lead to environmentally and naturally sound solutions. President! Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of ensuring diversity and also ecological links, recreational use and the adequacy of the green area network. In these, I hope the Minister has a fresh grip.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u23	Mr President! These regional use targets highlight functionality, health, safety and vitality, the vitality of regions, rural agglomerations, central areas and village networks. And, as has been said, this has also been mirrored in the National Agenda for 2030, and it is excellent that the administrative sectors go beyond this Agenda for 2030. Digital connections are extremely important for the functioning of our country as a whole, and they have also been well taken into account here. Similarly, ecological links, especially in urban areas, so that species of organisms and plants can also live in our urban areas. In these areas, the role of regions and municipalities will be emphasised and strengthened, and this approach will bring this decision-making closer to the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u24	Mr President! Meeting the needs for change in the use of regions is important to promote a good living environment and sustainable development throughout the country. The transport system is of key importance and our Committee on the Environment stressed the need, in particular, to exploit the potential of rail transport in growth centres and between regional centres. When implemented, regional use targets will also promote walking and cycling, which will not only have these climate change mitigation effects, but also contribute to public health. Road transport is a major source of emissions even in a long distance country in Finland. However, the largest number of passenger cars are used for short work trips, from 5 to 20 kilometres. It is therefore important that our policy should support people's transition to low-emission and completely zero-emission modes of transport. I will take the example of Espoo, where we just got a metro and yet we have areas where metro stations or other railway stations cannot be reached because there are no roads for light traffic. I also link this to the fact that municipalities, towns and cities are faced with costs when children are being transported to school because of a dangerous schoolway. These problems could be overcome by providing a fairway for light traffic, through which people would then be able to get to work and reach those train stations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u25	Mr President! It is excellent that national regional use targets are changed in the direction that enables strong development in the regions and strong development in the whole of Finland. It is worth remembering that in today's world, the rise in the bioeconomy is a fact that we must make the most of. It is a very good thing that more decision-making power is coming to the provinces so that decision-making is decentralised. I cannot imagine a region thinking of its own development, of its own future planning something other than the best in the province and the best in its environment. You must always remember that in every municipality in Finland and in every province in Finland every decision-maker, whatever the level, is sure to think of the best in his province by all means. This expertise is precisely where local people, local entrepreneurs and also local authorities are. This is worth seeing as a resource and not as an obstacle. Now that we are talking about climate change, when attention is paid to the transport system in this proposal for national regional use targets, I would like it, Minister, to take greater account of inland waterway transport. If we in this country want to move the big masses, as we do as a forest industry state, and there are many other heavy transports, then we should move them more and more to inland waterways. As we know, inland waterways are a means of transport that does not run and does not spoil anything and which would also allow tourism to rise as we develop this much more actively. So I ask Minister Tiilikainen: has inland waterway transport now been completely forgotten? This is the opportunity we should seize. Mr President! Finally, when so much is said about climate change, look at what is happening in the world. It is not good for us to be sad about our own affairs; we have things in order. In the world, the use of coal is growing more every year than the annual amount of renewable energy is reduced by hydropower.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u28	Mr President! Climate change: According to the UN, about 70% of global greenhouse gas emissions are generated in cities. In other words, the decisions taken in cities on urban planning, transport and also on energy efficiency in housing, the energy source of district heat, district heating systems are crucial to the fight against climate change. The planning decisions may also be very long-term. For example, in the oldest parts of the oldest European cities, which are over 1,000 years old or even over 2,000 years old, the street network may also be over 1,000 years old, even though most of the buildings along their streets would have changed over the centuries. It is therefore very important that urban planning, planning and planning should take greater account of the impact of our decisions on climate change mitigation and see things in the long term. Mr Sarkkinen raised an important issue, the loss of biodiversity. It is another global crisis which, if it worsens, also threatens the functioning of human societies. Most of the things that contribute to the loss of biodiversity are related to local actions, local solutions that destroy the local habitats of a species. In addition to such more immediate economic interests, this issue should also be more prominent in planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u29	Mr President! The establishment of common general formulas for regional planning and municipalities was abandoned in 2016, and this was a really big change in the discussion between municipalities and regions and the Ministry of the Environment. More emphasis was placed on this kind of proactive interactive cooperation between authorities and the role of national regional use targets. However, I do not believe there is any justification for abandoning the principle of condensing agglomerations and thereby improving the functioning of society and contributing to the achievement of climate objectives. In its own opinion, the Committee on the Environment stressed that the Helsinki Region is still an important metropolitan area for Finland as a whole and even though the special issues of the Helsinki region are no longer included in these objectives, its value must be recognised. The success of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and other large urban areas is absolutely essential for Finland's international competitiveness as a whole. In future, it is important that the links between the urban structure of the Helsinki region and the transport system should be better taken into account and that the development of these areas will have a strong impact. I also see that, when this regional reform is being carried out and a new province is being created, it is now necessary to remedy the situation in Uusimaa, at the latest, that the work on the transport system and on the regional plans are the responsibility of various parties, and that the transport system work must be transferred to the responsibility of the province.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u30	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Tiilikainen and Mr Korhose for their excellent work in building these regional use targets. I believe that this has gone in the right direction now with these objectives compared to the previous one. To create these opportunities for regions, regions and regions to develop their own strengths and support them in a holistic way. This debate has focused on a number of key issues. I would like to say for myself that, in comparison with the previous regional use targets, the consolidation of the urban structure now affects the largest urban areas, not the whole country, as in previous ones, which I think is very good, so that the regions and regions have greater freedom to develop their own strengths, economic activity and others. Secondly, I would like to draw attention specifically to these major social trends, such as digitalisation, which has been very well identified in these objectives, as mentioned above, and which are also aimed at supporting the progress of digitalisation. Of course, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection points out in its unanimous opinion, the development of broadband connections throughout the country is absolutely essential for digitalisation and the jobs it creates to be created throughout the country and for the potential outside the major growth centres to be exploited.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u31	Mr President! The national regional use targets now under discussion are quite important and important issues. It has been seen many times in the practice of administration and in the case-law. These are, after all, objectives that will be taken into account now that the regional councils and, in the future, the autonomous provinces are making their regional plans and the municipalities are making their general patterns of status. Many times, in the case of severe complaints and in the assessment of different land use projects, the project has ultimately been mirrored by these national regional use targets. In relation to this, it is important that these are carefully reviewed and discussed here in Parliament's large Chamber. I would venture to say that these regional use targets do show quite strongly the centre handprint and that handprint has come through Minister of the Environment Kimmo Tiilikainen and Congressman Timo Korhonen, who have been working here. I think it is very important that, in these objectives, making this possible, making it possible to build, live, work, try and move, is now at the very centre of clarity. President! After all, it is possible for us to live and live and operate in a decentralised way, including in rural areas, including sparsely populated areas, when we are concerned about renewable energy and meeting environmental standards, and there is no other need for this unnecessary concentration. It is good that such general objectives for the concentration of urban structures should be removed. By the way, Mr President, I very much welcome the direction that has been taken by the Sipilä Government with regard to planning and construction, that bureaucracy has been reduced and that there is also limited access to complaints. Here I have a little disagreement with Mr Hassi — or I think it was Mr Huovinen — because at least we in South Ostrobothnia have very many bad experiences of how different
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u32	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank Mr Tiilikainen and Mr Korhonen for their excellent work on the objectives of regional use. Local decision-making is of the utmost importance in the use of regions. That is why it has been a great pity to hear the voice of the Greens, in particular, calling for national regulation instead of this local decision-making process. I personally see that this shows this significant ideological difference between the centre and the Greens. Local decision-making in the city centre is an opportunity, and for the Greens it seems to be a threat. In my opinion, it is important for the people of southern Helsinki to be able to decide how to develop their living environment, and then, with Enontekio, we can do the same. Unfortunately, this has not happened so far, but we are generally regulated and dictated by those things from the south. Overprotection itself, as important as nature conservation is, is also a significant risk. Mr President! Lapland’s tourism is currently growing enormously. If this is the rate of growth for the next ten years, we will have 10 million tourists in the province. That means 23,000 new jobs. This challenge, sustainable growth and the exploitation of opportunities, we will only be able to cope with local decisions, not national over-regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u33	At this point, Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u34	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for their very good and diverse views on these national regional use targets. It seems that about all 17 objectives have been raised in this debate from a point of view. Mr Kiuru rightly raised that defence and security aspect of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and it is important to bear that in mind. Many have talked about how important it is to make it possible, for example, to walk, cycling, this kind of mobility through those land-use decisions. It is equally important, then, to make it possible again, where there are longer distances, to operate infrastructure and transport connections. It seems that there has been a fairly balanced success in identifying and recording these important issues in different types of areas. Taking biodiversity into account, which has been raised by a number of representatives, is an important issue. Of course, the diversity raised by Mr Sarkkinen in cities is an important point. Mr Honkonen and Mr Kurvinen have the right attention to say that this rehabilitation of the community structure is particularly important where there are many people, but it is equally important that the urban structure that is built up there, including in the major cities, preserves the ecological links, the green areas, the parks where people get in touch with the country. It also has health implications for the prevention of allergies and this kind of disease, except, of course, it is a source of mental recreation. These two aspects must be taken into account in the cities. On the other hand, when you go there in very different circumstances, as Mr Kärnä described here, for example, that you are building those conditions for the region, such as tourism in Lapland, it is great that this enabling grip has been identified in these national regional use targets. I do not know whether the old objectives were intended, but it seems that they were also somewhat over-interpreted in terms of the condensation of the structure of the community, which was in the old ones, and they were extended to about the fact that in some very sparsely populated areas there should no longer be a single house built on their own land, since the VAT says that it must be tightened up. Now that has been correctly identified in my opinion, it needs to be made up in the large urban areas, including these greenings, which I have already mentioned. After all, it always makes sense to rely on the existing infrastructure. Whether it is a municipality or a city in the region, of course, if you can invest activities in the existing infrastructure, of course it makes sense for society. Mr Hoskonen asked about these inland waterway transports. They are not really taken into account here, but just as you said, it does not pass by sailing, so as long as we take care then that the ships are waterworthy and that such risks are avoided, then inland transport certainly has a future. Mr Huovinen's point of view I would like to pick up, the role of the citizens. It's important, and it wants to be forgotten many times in the planning process. If that view of the population in planning is forgotten, it will, rather, lead to a wide range of complaints. For this reason, whether it be municipal planning or regional planning, the more inclusive the process of zoning and the better the range of citizens' opinions can be taken into account at that planning stage, it will prevent this complaint. I hope this is what the zoning is all about. All in all, it sounds like the working group led by Mr Korhonen, with representatives from many ministries and from many quarters, has managed to build a good foundation, which has been a pleasure for us in the ministry. It seems that these objectives enjoy quite broad support here in Parliament, but we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u35	We now have the opportunity to ask for a reply of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u36	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for those answers. In fact, two things which I myself would like to draw attention to: the fact that these new regional use targets also take account of the adequacy of areas suitable for recreational use, as well as the importance of safeguarding valuable cultural environments. When these VATs are clear — now 70 becomes 17 — they can also avoid overlaps with other legislation. All in all, I personally hope that the zoning system will also be streamlined in the future. And once we have talked about this urban planning, I would like to stress that it is a large entity: it includes transport systems, transport overall, housing and recreational areas and other park areas. It should be taken into account as a whole that it works as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u37	Mr President! I am pleased that Minister Tiilikainen raised the issue of the impact of biodiversity on human health. In addition to being a spiritual recreation and thereby promoting health, Finnish researchers have also found an interesting correlation between the diversity of natural plants growing near the home and the lack of children's allergies. So it would be better if such things were to be brought up more strongly in the planning process than in the past. I also agree with Minister Tiilikainen that a good, inclusive planning process is the best way to prevent complaints, and therefore I agree with Mrs Huovinen that it is not a good solution to restrict citizens' right to complain in environmental matters in the way the government proposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u38	Mr President! It is absolutely necessary that, when the Finnish bioeconomy develops and while ensuring that the economy of this country improves, we should use these own raw materials more decisively, and that of course includes the use of forests. We must make sure that agriculture is doing well in this country, and then, above all, that rural areas can be built up, because if we cannot build and develop livelihoods, then we will not have this opportunity. Now we are living in a time where every Finn and every European sees a shortage of renewable energy and clean food on this continent and throughout the world, and here we Finns have a chance. Moreover, we have the cleanest environment in the world, the cleanest groundwater in the world, and it opens up this possibility. All we have to do now is make sure that the whole country is being developed. It is all very well that we have a great capital and large regional centres, but we also need a living rural area, and I think that these national regional use targets are very well suited to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u39	Mr President! This is where I listened to Mr Hassi's speech, and it was interesting to learn about these really children's allergies. It is extremely important that close to home that biodiversity is preserved. I therefore particularly regret, for example, the decisions taken in Helsinki with regard to the Central Park of Helsinki: the park will be beaten and forever covered under concrete and, at the same time, this biodiversity will be destroyed and even the health of the children of Helsinki will be jeopardised if Mr Hassi's claims are correct. I very much hope that, when these conservation decisions are dictated to us northwards, at the same time, people in cities where the Greens are a power party will be able to take care of that nest of their own.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u40	Mr President! In fact, I would like to draw attention to what Mr Tiilikainen said in his own reply just now, namely the relationship between the objectives of using these regions and other legislation and, in a sense, also zoning. I think it is important that, in this work, once these objectives have been renewed, attention should be paid to the fact that these do not overlap with the actual legislation. However, when these objectives are basically the recommendations of the Government, as it were, the objectives decided by the Government in principle, I think it is quite right that the legislation then provides for those specific issues. However, these are quite rightly linked to major objectives and societal issues, such as low carbon and combating climate change, and focus on these big problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u41	Mr Korhonen and then we will take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u42	Mr President! First of all, I would of course like to thank the Minister very much for the cooperation that has been achieved in various ways during this process. After all, this working process was quite extensive in many ways, but I particularly appreciated the fact that the working group itself, although the debate was rather wide-ranging, concluded that the group's proposal was unanimous. And then, I am sure, with this extensive preparatory process, it was a pleasure to note that during the consultation and on the basis of the consultation, there was no major need for major changes to this VAT proposal. It was also a pleasure to see that the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection supports this proposal in an excellent way, and I must also thank you for the debate that has taken place in this Chamber today. Of course, even during this debate, I recall the fact that many speakers have pointed out that the world is changing very strongly and rapidly around us, that in 2008, Mr Huovinen's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy was evaluating the national objectives of regional use and that, in some ways, the changes around us are so extensive that the need for more reform is only a matter of time. Well, it has been ten years now that it is interesting to see where the next need for reform will come from. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u43	And Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u44	Mr President! I do not know if there are any more food and needs for three minutes, so an exhaustive debate has taken place here in the Chamber. I would like to thank the working group and its chair, Mr Korho, for the preparatory work and the committee for the thorough examination of the matter and for bringing it here to the debate in Parliament's plenary session. I take the view that these national objectives for the use of regions, which the government is proposing, are broadly supported by this Chamber, almost touchingly unanimous if you wish to say so solemnly. It is therefore my duty to take this quickly into the Government's policy decisions, so that in the future, on the basis of these goals and guidelines, this vital zoning work will be carried forward in the municipalities and regions and will be necessary for the comfort and health of all of us and the development of Finland in general. This was interesting, this observation, which Mrs Korhonen picked up from the positions of the committee in 2008.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u47	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 18/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u48	Mr President! The government's proposal to increase the share of energy and CO2 in the tax on heating, power plant and machinery fuels is good and to be welcomed, especially as the increase is emphasised in the direction of the CO2 tax. After all, the structure of the taxation of bio-based liquid heating fuels remains unchanged and changes are not proposed for biogas, solid biomass and, indeed, peat. Therefore, moving the focus of the tax increase towards the CO2 tax is a good thing, as is raising taxes at this point. However, the volume proposed is actually insufficient in order to combat climate change. The Greens have suggested that the government should propose a reduction in the tax subsidy for light fuel oil as part of the reduction of fossil fuel subsidies and that the government should take measures to increase the taxation of energy peat as part of national climate policy. Mr President! With regard to that light fuel oil, it is worth noting that there are still nearly 200,000 oil-fired small houses in Finland with a total of 460 million litres of heating oil per year. In addition to small houses, oil also warms up a significant number of public buildings that use about 160 million litres of oil per year for heating, but in Sweden, for example, in our neighbouring country, oil heating is now an almost marginal form of heating. Finland should therefore follow the example of Sweden and encourage households and public authorities to phase out the use of oil as a heating medium. This has been the case in Sweden for the past 15 years systematically by increasing the annual taxation of light fuel oil. In Sweden, households and general government have thus switched to more environmentally friendly heating options for oil. If we compare the situation in Finland and Sweden further, Sweden currently has a total excise duty on light fuel oil of approximately 43.6 cents per litre, i.e. more than double that on Finland. This gives some dimension to this government proposal under discussion. I therefore believe that the Finnish Government should also set itself the objective of completely and clearly committing itself to raising the taxation of light fuel oil annually sufficiently in order to achieve this objective. Mr President! The government now suggests that the consumer price of light fuel oil would rise by only about 2%, and in the case of heavy fuel oil the increase would be about 3%. This is not yet very far-reaching. However, according to the Government's proposal, tax relations between fuels will change in such a way that the competitiveness of fuels with less CO2 emissions, such as natural gas, will be slightly improved compared to coal, which is a good thing. The increase in the CO2 tax will also improve the competitiveness of renewable energy, which is currently not subject to a CO2 tax or an energy tax at all. On the other hand, the role of peat will be improved because there will be no changes in its taxation — this is the place of criticism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u49	Mr President! The Government's proposal is mainly justified on environmental grounds and is therefore positive and supported. However, the impact of this proposal is limited from the point of view of environmental protection and climate objectives, as it is largely addressed to the emissions trading sector, which would have little impact on the overall emissions. It can therefore be said that the main objective of this proposal is fiscal, to collect more tax revenues of around EUR 50 million. When the main objective is fiscal and the environmental objective is secondary, then it is not necessarily the best possible environmental policy. Thus, the draft law has not assessed the different options from an environmental point of view. It is clear that the same amount of money could make it possible to take more effective measures to reduce emissions. The draft law has not assessed the impact of the changes, for example, on switching oil heating systems to more environmentally friendly systems. It is precisely from an environmental point of view that the impact of these measures on consumers is crucial, and what is precisely this price elasticity at the head of the consumer. In addition to tax increases, it could be effectively influenced by, for example, direct support for the replacement of heating systems. After all, the previous government had a modest budget of EUR 10 million for small-house energy renovations, which, for some reason, was quite overwhelming for this government to keep in the mix of means, despite its positive effects. It is unusual, therefore, why the government has not weighed these carrots along with the stick, whose final significance for the climate benefits that will then be achieved by itself. Decisions on tax increases should be considered from the point of view of fairness and the distribution of income. After all, the government's proposal shows that the main impact of the proposal would be on the district heating sector and on heating per house. The costs of construction, agriculture and industry would also increase by a total of EUR 15 million. The government has estimated that its impact on income differentials would be limited. This has been assessed by comparisons by income decile. However, the committee was not entirely satisfied with these estimates, but stressed in its report that estimates of the distribution effects of individual changes should be based on sufficiently recent information. Statistics Finland's data for 2012 are not necessarily relevant today. Attention should be paid to the combined effect of repeated increases and other simultaneous tax decisions, which the committee also considers to be a shortcoming in this draft law. The government’s proposal therefore targets only a limited number of households and should therefore be assessed more closely on its income-sharing effects. The impact of decisions on housing prices should also be assessed. After all, the government has made a number of other solutions that reflect the price of housing, and it remains unclear why the government has decided to collect additional tax revenue of 50 million precisely through this method. It would be possible to collect tax revenues more fairly, for example by changing the tax focus towards the taxation of ownership. Of course, there are many good and constructive proposals in the SDP's alternative budget. This can be achieved, for example, by increasing the tax base on ownership. So the government's proposal is inadequate, both from an environmental point of view and from a point of view of justice. No background studies have been carried out for this purpose as required by good legislation. That is why we are making three statements in which we draw attention to these very shortcomings. The Government must monitor the impact of tax increases on housing costs and also the impact of this tax increase on emissions and, thirdly, prepare a comprehensive proposal to ensure the transition to environmentally sustainable heating systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u50	Mr President! I think that Mrs Harakka has just given a very good, comprehensive and analytical speech, in which she described the problems of this particular proposal from several different points of view. It is true that there are problems here because of the factors that raise the price of housing, as well as the distribution of income, which may not be very positive, and so does the environmental aspect. I would like to stress that when we talk about the environmental aspect and argue that this is a good environmental policy, it is rarely very good when the objective is, in fact, a fiscal one, which Mr Harakka went through. It is important to note that we assume that this legislation will not necessarily solve these environmental objectives. On the contrary, as Mr Harakka said, the problem here is that all the time only stick is being put when there should be carrots. And I think that this very situation, in which we are now living, would require a little effort by the state to invest the carrot so that we can make the heating methods more ecological and, of course, also combat climate change, and we would certainly be able to make good economic activity when these renovations are being made. One of the things I worry about is housing costs. Once again, the government has brought a proposal to increase housing costs. We all know that today our dwelling is too expensive. I am pleased that, quite certainly, even under pressure from the opposition, the government gave up and withdrew its proposal to impose a property tax. It was a good step, that's what I'm happy about. But, yes, as soon as the heating charges are raised and things like this come along, many small outfits are going to be hard for their purses. All in all, it is of particular concern here that we have a large number of people, even low-income pensioners, for example, who live in their oil-heated own homes, often in an area where even the change in the heating system would not make a great deal of difference. Then, if the heating costs continue to rise, I’m sure I don’t feel like patting my hands. There are 200,000 of these homes, so that it is not an insignificant sum. In addition to that, of course, urban areas, southern cities, for example, are heavily dependent on district heat, and the inhabitants of their regions are also vaccinated by district heating charges. President! Mr Harakka also described the third dimension, which we have some concerns about. It's the distribution of income. In many of the government's proposals, the distribution of income is problematic, and it also shows that it is not necessarily so clear that this would not have such an impact, but, on the contrary, even the committee itself says that these reports are incomplete. All in all, I believe that the small pensioner who lives in that oil-heated house or that urban family is often quite low-income people, and therefore I do not believe that the distribution of income would be very positive in this regard. With these words, Mr President, although it is not yet officially time for statements to be adopted, I have already said that, of course, I warmly support the statements made by the SDP and, indeed, underscore the fact that our own alternative budget provides such support, which could then be paid in the form of correction grants, energy subsidies, and we could also consider a reduction in the household. Yesterday, in fact, this came up in the pons in connection with the Income Tax Act, where we suggested that the household allowance should also be extended to the flats. I think that's a good idea. In this connection, of course, ecological renovation needs could also be taken into account, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u51	Mr President! This government proposal to increase excise duty on liquid fuels, electricity and certain fuels seems to me to be extremely unfair. This disciplines both agriculture and private households. This is where Mr Viitanen raised these elderly people who live alone well, and I would like to take an example of a low-income pensioner who lives in a house that is warmed up with fuel oil and uses electricity, where the lights and household appliances now need electricity. According to these calculations, the increase will be around EUR 60 per year, while at the same time the energy companies will increase the electricity transmission charges. Today, South Finland’s Sanomat reported that Lahti Energy will increase the transfer fees so that the basic charge for the universal transfer will rise by 18 per cent, the transfer price for the single citizen by 13 per cent. This means an additional EUR 33 bill for this same low-income person. Well, these government-planned operations and increases in the electricity company when added together, there'll be about a hundred extra bills. Mr President! At this point, I do have the question of whether it is intended to empty the countryside and concentrate all Finns on cities and settlements in blocks of flats that are warming up with district heat — which are also not saved from price increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u52	Mr President! Mr Ronkainen has already described the problems of this government's proposal and I fully agree with them. It is a good thing that the Social Democrats are also concerned about this issue, but I wonder why you are only demanding to follow these matters at the level of the statements and, like the Finns of Peru, are not directly rejecting this proposal and telling us where the money will be taken to reject it, because is it not undisputed that this will be costly for the underprivileged? For us, removing this is one part of our alternative budget, the housing bill package.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u53	Mr President! Of course, we are trying to make decisions based on the information studied. Based on Statistics Finland’s data for 2012, this government proposal trusts that an increase in the price of oil heating will not result in negative income distribution effects, and in that sense, of course, I would not be tempted to argue against it. Yet, intuitively, I assume that those households that are still dependent on oil heating must have people who have not had the opportunity or who have not had the opportunity to switch oil heating to a more ecological form of heating. It may be because the inhabitants are elderly. This may, of course, be due to the fact that the inhabitants do not have the money, despite the fact that they have previously used this energy refurbishment carrot. And it may be because the price of its dwelling is so low in any case that it makes no sense, as it were, to make this exchange. In this respect, I am quite convinced that the income distribution effects of this proposal are negative and must be clarified. I very much regret the fact that with such limited and vague information and, in my opinion, questionable information, such decisions are being taken. However, to the extent that it would still be worthwhile to switch that oil heating to another form of heating, such as extending the household allowance to energy renovations, especially in blocks of flats and terraced houses, would also be worth exploring, as has been suggested several times in the SDP's alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u54	Mr President! On the other hand, I would like to underline the same thing as Mr Harakka earlier, that it is noteworthy that in this report the whole committee states that these reports are incomplete. That, of course, there should also be alarm bells on the government parties. Fortunately, there are few government parties present here, and it would also be interesting to hear from the government parties why this is the case and why, then, as a parliament, we cannot demand that these issues be given a better background when such proposals are introduced. And once again, I would like to underline: when there is so much talk here that the cost of living is too high, why, at this very time, must this increase be made again? Not to mention the fact that we have criticised this inequality, that even here, as has been said, the positive effects on the distribution of income are hardly positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u55	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 13/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u56	Mr President! Agricultural products are struggling with an exceptional crisis of profitability exacerbated by weather conditions. The crisis applies to all sectors of production, but this proposal is now able to give some support, particularly to the work of livestock farmers. That is why I am now pleased that this reduction in temporary replacement payments for farmers will continue for next year. Unfortunately, this temporary reduction does not make agriculture or the profitability of Finnish food production much better than once, but at least it will bring a little relief to those in the most difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u57	Mr President! In 2017 the Board of Directors decided on 1 million investments in the reduction of substitute subsidies for vacation services. The proposal is good, but inadequate and temporary. At the moment, farmers are really in a tight spot. We're in a very mixed situation. Domestic food and food production is vital for each of our citizens. Economically, many farmers are doing very badly, and mental endurance is under test. When it gets tough, it's hard to get vacationers. The quitter must be competent and, of course, reliable. Therefore, in the form of training and remuneration, the availability of holidaymakers must also be ensured in the future. In addition, there are often animals on the farm whose well-being is promoted by supporting the farmer's survival, and it is therefore important for the farmer to have a little break because animal welfare is important for everyone, not only for the producer but also for the consumer who wants to buy ethically produced food. More effort has been allocated to this in the shadow budget of the Finns, and in our shadow budget we take greater account of the plight of the farmer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u58	Mr President! This small reduction in the substitute allowance, keeping this derogation in force for a year, is all right and positive, but I would hope that one day in this country too, we will have such systems in Finland that we can genuinely take care of the profitability of agriculture. I understand that the common European agricultural policy has pushed this situation into the way it is at the moment, but I hope that there will still be the golden middle way forward so that the farmer can also get a fair price for the raw material he produces. Then, of course, the financial effectiveness of such a substitute contribution will be very weak. Instead, when a person is able to rest and receive its replacement a little cheaper than would have been in the case of an increase, in the situation at hand, it is certainly of great importance that a person is able to relax and relieve himself from the pressures of work. But I would like to see this country finally embarking on a debate to obtain a fair price for the products sold by the farmer, because the real payer of this constant food price has been the farmer. Raw material prices have been dumped so low that they have already gone below the cost of production. On top of these sanctions on the export of agricultural products, which have contributed to the fact that trade in agricultural products to Russia has really been stopped, and farmers have suffered from it, to pay a heavy price when there is no market for products, even if we produce the world's cleanest food, which is supposed to go to the world market like hot stones, then there must be some change. Of course, this bill will not make it possible, but hopefully it will create the situation that farmers will be able to cope with a difficult situation, as in the case of better days.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u59	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 21/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate on this issue begins. — Representative, Chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u60	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Transport and Communications concerns a government proposal aimed at dismantling unnecessary regulation and administrative burdens. The Act repeals, inter alia, the provision on the amount of radio advertising and the provisions on the mobile trade in communications services and mobile phones. The services of the special groups are very important to the committee in all matters. In order to make software available to people with visual and hearing impairments, the proposal provides for sound and subtitle services. This obligation is necessary in order to ensure equal access for persons with visual and hearing impairments to the programmes and the right to receive messages contained in the freedom of expression. The Committee considers that services for special groups are important and should be further developed. For this reason, the committee has increased the proportion of the audio and subtitle service for software serving a wide range of general groups from 50% to 75% of the software and extended the audio and subtitle service to all musical performances and sports programmes other than broadcast live broadcasts. As regards the conditions for the granting of software licences and radio licences, the proposal proposed that certain software licences and radio licences should not be granted if the applicant is suspected, for a legitimate reason, of violating certain provisions of the lottery law, the Photoware Act and the Criminal Code on incitement to a group of people. The Committee on Transport and Communications has clarified these provisions and deleted references to the lottery law as required by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, in accordance with the proposal, authorisations may continue to be withdrawn on the grounds that the provisions of the lottery law on gambling advertising have been infringed. From the title of the law, the Committee on Transport and Communications decided to change the name of the law into a law on electronic communications services, as required by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr President! This report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u61	Mr President! I consider this bill to be fundamentally good and well-founded. The changes proposed include, for example, subtitling services, which improve the position of people with visual and hearing impairments in relation to the media and the services it provides. We are moving towards a better approach to the question of wholesale trade and consumer protection. There's a lot of other good things. In my speech, however, I will focus on the points to be corrected in the draft law, on which I shall submit a motion for amendment in accordance with a clause tabled by the Group of the Finns Party in the Committee on Transport and Communications. From the outset, the proposal had some worrying features in relation to the ex ante censorship and the granting or non-granting of business permits on arbitrary grounds. It was difficult to avoid the feeling that certain books had a sense of purpose. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to this problem and the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications has taken account of their comments on the wording and, among other things, the lottery law. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs left open the possibility originally proposed to restrict the granting of permits, not simply to withdraw, on the grounds that it is reasonable to suspect that the applicant is guilty of incitement to the people. This is a problem because there is a very wide margin of discretion here. What is the meaning of doubt? Is it that the applicant has a final judgment on the matter at some point, or what? Does anyone perhaps feel that there is a wrong view — without any evidence of the denunciation of opinions? This is difficult to understand, because in the rule of law, a person is innocent until proven guilty. Furthermore, there are doubts that there was no interference in any other crimes related to the abuse of freedom of expression: there is no mention of defamation or the dissemination of information that violates private life. Mr President! Furthermore, the proposal does not contain any means of extending the authorisation criteria to information that is questionable from a security point of view or of preventing the operating permits of non-expression-related criminals, such as those involved in organised crime. As a result, all references to criminal law should be removed from the law at this point and perhaps come back to a proposal that has been corrected, which takes account of these proposals in a broader and more balanced way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u62	Mr President! As long as there is genuine freedom of expression in society, it cannot be thoroughly rotten. Instead, every rotten society lacks that freedom of expression. In Western democracies, the essence of freedom of expression is often seen as the absence of pre-censorship. However, the Government's proposal for a law amending the information society cycle suggests that the conditions for the granting of software licences for radio and television activities should be changed in such a way that the licence would not be granted if there were reasonable grounds for suspecting that the applicant was guilty of incitement to the public group. However, without taking a position on the interpretation of the law of incitement against the people, it is doubtful that the granting of a licence will be considered by FICORA on the basis of the applicant’s background. I quote Article 12 of Chapter 2 of the Finnish Constitution: "Every man has freedom of expression. Freedom of expression includes the right to express, publish and receive information, opinions and other messages without prejudice to anyone." I see that the government's proposal contradicts the rule of freedom of expression, and I support Mr Mäkelä's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u63	Mr President! I, too, draw attention to the issue of freedom of expression, but from another point of view. It is excellent that the committee has done a good job of paying attention to the better service of the special groups. This is an extremely important question for myself and for many in this Chamber. It is excellent that there is a desire to improve the position and rights of special groups, especially those with visual and hearing impairments, those with visual and hearing impairments. However, I would draw attention to the fact that Article 211 excludes direct transmissions from voice and subtitle services and interpretation services at all. The explanatory statement states that this is currently technically difficult. However, this law should go beyond the current technical difficulties, and I cannot understand why it would be particularly difficult to organise sign language interpretation in a simultaneously manner. That is what is being done all the time in all the everyday situations of today, and I would therefore like this law to be even more extensive and binding. It is a great thing that people want to defend the rights of hearing-impaired and deaf people. It is also required by the Sign Language Act, which seeks to ensure the freedom of expression and freedom of expression of deaf people. However, at the same time as positive attention is paid to this, the state also neglects the human rights and freedom of expression of deaf people by means of competitive tendering for interpreters, which undermines services and undermines fundamental freedom of expression, and this is something that this House should adopt quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u64	Mr President! When this law was in the referral debate in this Chamber, it was also to be welcomed that this is intended to improve the services of special groups, the services of people with visual and hearing disabilities. At that time there was also a wish in this Chamber that the committee would look into this matter and see if there was anything else that could be improved a little bit. And if I remember correctly, I think the minister was in the box at the time and said that this could be seen a little bit more. But it has now happened that the committee does not propose any changes to this, but notes this problem — that the expert hearings have indicated that these technical problems, for example in the case of direct transmissions, exist — but then, in the case of direct transmissions, write down the need for the ministry to follow these technical developments closely in the future and then, if necessary, to propose changes. I would now like this to be read in a way underlined and in bold about the healthyness of the committee in the ministry, and I would like to hope that perhaps there might be some improvement in this as soon as possible. Just as Mr Harakka said earlier, I think it is very important that we should be able to improve the services of these special groups at all levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u65	Mr President! The answer immediately to Mr Viitane: the committee increased these percentages, which means that this has been addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u67	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that the committee has taken careful note of this draft law and has produced a strong report. The fact that there is a strong debate on freedom of expression is a good thing, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must have spent several hours in this parliamentary term too. It should be borne in mind that freedom of expression always involves responsibility, that there is no such freedom as there is no responsibility. [Department :Thurson! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u68	Mr President! I share Mr Harakka and Mr Viitanen's concern about this importance of services for the deaf and other special groups. Today we must think that it is important for society to go to great lengths so that, despite the injuries, we can be full members of society and have the same rights as those of those who, for example, are capable of operating without special assistance from all their senses. It is an excellent task for Parliament to ensure that this is the case. Then this question of this arousal against the populace: I consider it a very big and very pregnant matter. As Mr Hoskonen has said here, freedom of expression also has its responsibilities. It is clear that we have had regulations in relation to defamation, for example, the procedures which must also be committed by the media, but this provocation against the people is still at a very different level than these defamation cases. The history of Europe, not only the old history that preceded the Second World War, but also the history that followed, gives such cautious examples,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u73	Mr President! As a follow-up to what Mr Heinäluoma said, I would like to quote from Article 12 of the Constitution, which states that'more important provisions on the exercise of freedom of expression are laid down by law'. As a number of representatives have already said, freedom of expression also involves responsibility, and historical experience shows that there is reason to take a hard stand against the people. I agree with all that colleagues have said about the need to improve subtitle services for hearing-impaired people. Now there is a crooked stack of software that can easily be found online, which translates the spoken language directly into a text, so I do not believe that such an improvement in services would be in any way economically superior.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u74	Mr President! Now that more speeches have been made on this responsibility and freedom of expression, let us say that freedom of expression can be exercised and any responsibility will come after the exercise of its freedom when it is found that someone may have committed a crime. Then there will be a pre-trial investigation and a trial, and that is how this division of power works. I do not believe that this problem has been fully taken into account in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but that this justifies a pre-censorship on the basis of the assumption. After all, no one has demanded that a person who has been proven guilty of such acts should not be able to withdraw such a licence, but now, on the basis of the assumption, we are going to refuse prior authorisation to a person who can be considered guilty of such acts. This is a question of advance censorship, not a question of responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u75	Mr President! I will come back to the debate that should take place as soon as possible between the Members of Parliament in this great Chamber. It is therefore related to the freedom of expression of hearing-impaired people, which in this respect is thus improving not as well as one might wish. So sign language is a separate language that is more than just that text at the bottom of the screen. It is its own language, the use of which is required by the Sign Language Act to be increased. It would have been perfectly appropriate in this context to add the obligation to interpret and present in sign language at the same time, which apparently requires a legal obligation, because when the sign language law was adopted here in the Chamber, that historical law, at the same time, was not simultanised for the people concerned by that law. This competition for deaf interpretation services has led to hundreds of interpreters being unemployed and services being no longer guaranteed at the level required by freedom of expression and human rights. So there is one law and one great principle which runs counter to practical implementation, and yes, we must be able to say to Kela, as in the case of competitions for people with disabilities in general, that the euro and the dollar alone must not be the decisive factors here, but it is, however, the very fundamental human rights of large groups of people. We cannot claim that we have increased the freedom of expression and human rights of hearing-impaired people while, at the same time, this method of tendering eliminates them on a practical level. It's got to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u76	Mr President! To what I have just said, I would like to add that a licence for software is not a subjective right which belongs to everyone, but is subject to certain conditions which must be fulfilled by the recipient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u77	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the concession holder can be subject to requirements and can also be seen in his previous activities when assessing the possibilities and reasons for granting these rights. The rights are limited and are not accessible to everyone under any circumstances. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum of the draft law that the government argues, inter alia, that those who have committed infringements of the lottery law may be taken into account when applying for a new licence, i.e. whether or not to grant a licence if they have committed an infringement of the lottery law. I am greatly surprised that the Finns of Peru are not proposing to change this point. It also makes advance censorship in relation to the possibilities for action, and I think that these crimes, which relate to such a heavy issue as incitement to the people, are far more serious than the violation of the lottery law. There is no justification for making these radio frequencies available to society, that when not everyone can be given, they will be given without some criteria. One understandable criterion is that if you are guilty of activities that are punishable by society, it will be taken into account when assessing the different applicants in relation to each other. Let us not go down this road and go over the road with this inciting against the peoples. That is the wrong way, and I hope that Parliament will be very united in this respect and leave no room for interpretation in such matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u78	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Heinäluoma had a good comment on this respect for the lottery law, on the fact that we have this sort of national exception in the EU, that this is a kind of monopoly activity in this country, and that, of course, requires us to monitor this section. Of course, the basis on which we once received this exception is that this money, which comes from there, is being used to foster the common good: science, art, culture and youth work. There is a very good argument for them, and that is a very long-term criterion — we should continue to uphold it after this parliamentary term. It is such a valuable thing that you should think if this money were to roll over into the international gaming companies' balance sheets. Of course, there is an opportunity to do almost anything on the Internet today, but what is happening here within the borders of the country and for the companies operating here – i.e. Veikkaus Oy – that is a very sustainable basis, and that is what we must uphold. The second point is that of harmful materials. The reason for refusing an application for authorisation may be that harmful materials have been distributed at the wrong time to children, for example, and such criteria must exist. Yes, our children and young people should be protected, because the world is certainly full of that inappropriate material of all the world. If the author of the permit does not have the opportunity to consider whether to grant the permit, or in a situation where the law has been violated, whether or not to withdraw the permit... There has to be a way of controlling this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u79	Mr President! It seems that Mr Heinäluoma had not read this report to the very end, with the amendments and objections made by the committee, because it was now the case that as far as this lottery law, which was originally proposed by the government to be pre-censored on the basis of permit criteria, the Constitutional Committee called for the abolition of the requirement that licences should not be pre-sensitized on the basis of the lottery law. Of course, the committee made these changes to its own report, as requested by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that is clear. In any case, it remains in our motion of amendment, and only the advance censorship will be removed, as was the case with the lottery law. However, what I mentioned in my opening speech was that this aspect of security policy was not brought into this law at all, at least in a small way. At least there has been such a public debate that there should be some way of preventing or controlling such activities if radio or television broadcasts are introduced which are in some way contrary to Finland’s national interests — I believe that most representatives know the subject I am talking about — and this law does not make that possible. This is one of the shortcomings I asked about in the committee on this law, and I did not find it satisfactory. I hope this will be addressed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u80	Mr President! I was absolutely obliged to ask for this second speech because Mr Hassi and Mr Heinäluoma, my fellow Members here, made such good and strong contributions that I would like to give them my heartfelt and warm support. It is quite clear that when we talk about such a thing as incitement against the people, it would have to be the message of all of us that it should not be accepted in any way. We all know the terrible and tragic history that mankind has managed to write for itself about these things, and that is why I am very surprised these days that this kind of protest from the Finns of Peru is coming to this. But I would therefore like to thank the representatives of Heinäluoma and Hassi, among others, for these good speeches and I hope that the general spirit in this House is in line with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u81	Mr President! As I said, I referred to the arguments put forward by the government in this regard. I personally would not consider it impossible that this repeated violation of the lottery law is a reason for refusing permission. We have similar rules in many other areas. I think it is even the case that in obtaining taxi licenses there is a situation where this kind of disturbance constitutes an obstacle to obtaining a taxi permit. Even an order card — is it still an order card?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u84	Mr President! On this point, I am in the same line with Mr Heinäluoma that it is quite true that there are many conditions for obtaining a taxi permit that are defined there: not guilty of them and of those crimes. But now we are in the process of adopting a bill in which, in the first place, the government made no other criteria than this lottery law and incitement against the people's group as grounds for not granting permission. In other words, as I said in my opening speech, all other criminal activity related to freedom of expression, defamation and so on remained there. All other crime remained there, and you cannot deny it if this law is adopted. This was the gap I brought up earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u85	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u86	Mr President! This Government proposal amends the Law on Financing Education and Culture and the Act on Free Cultural Work so as to freeze index increases in practice. These savings would be targeted, among other things, at educational institutions for liberal education. Folk high schools, adult education centres, student centres, physical education centres and summer universities have been subject to cutbacks for years. Now it's about to come up against the wall. We Finns in the Education Committee have submitted our own objections to the matter. We believe that educational institutions for liberal education are an important piece of Finnish education and education. They offer, among other things, a lot of general education and continuing training that is also important for many people in their careers. Excellent opportunities to educate themselves free of charge or with relatively little money can be seen as pride in our system. This, if anything, supports lifelong learning. Let me remind you that in the case of liberal educational institutions, marginal activity cannot be mentioned, as it is exploited by as many as one million people per year. A million people use these services. For years now, the providers of liberal education have had to reduce their supply due to cuts. In my opinion, it is no longer sensible for Finnish civilisation to follow this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u87	Mr President! The freezing of indices has contributed to the weakening of the foundation of Finnish education and civilisation, taking into account the billion-dollar savings in education, research and civilisation. Once again, the government proposal has a negative impact on the quality of education by reducing education resources from basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and basic art education. Public finances can only be strengthened by investing in knowledge and growth, not by cutting. The continuation of the freezing of the indices is no longer justified in a situation where the economic situation has improved significantly and, for example, tax revenues have increased more than expected. The European Commission's follow-up survey shows clearly how Finland's investment in education has gone in the opposite direction to that in the control countries. A change is needed in this direction. As mentioned in the Government's proposal, the providers of education and the administrators of educational institutions have had to adapt to the resources available to them. In practice, this has led to a strong development of inequality by region, while other municipalities have been able to compensate for the cuts made with their own funding and others have not. Without additional funding from the municipality, the activities of upper secondary schools, for example, have no longer been able to be implemented in a high-quality manner. The student fees for liberal education and basic art education have also risen disproportionately. Financial cuts have increased the financial responsibility of municipalities or individual students for the costs of education. Mr President! Exclusion is linked to low levels of education, reduced literacy and differentiation of learning outcomes. The appropriations allocated for this purpose will be paid back multiple times. In the past, the level of our best comprehensive school in the world is falling. In Finland, investments in basic education have been very moderate and the responsibility for financing has been increasingly put on the shoulders of municipalities. In the past, central government transfers could cover 57% of the unit price, i.e. the State’s contribution, while now the State is paying just over 20% of the costs. It's quite a difference. Compared to other countries' contributions to basic education, we are in the base class. In order to reach the Nordic average alone, Finland should invest one billion euros more in basic education per year when looking at the share of basic education in GDP. The implementation and success of reforms are greatly hampered by the very poor basic funding status of upper secondary school education. The cuts of more than 10 per cent that have been made during the last government term directly affect the implementation of education. When there is no administration in upper secondary schools from which to cut, group sizes have been increased, which has made it difficult to adopt a wide range of pedagogical methods. Similarly, the number of optional courses has been reduced and self-learning without guidance has increased. In particular, learning languages starting in upper secondary school is at risk, which narrows the population’s linguistic reserve. Compulsory courses can only be carried out in a few cases, which makes it difficult for students to draw up personal study plans and, at worst, delays their graduation. At the same time, there has been an increase in unit sizes and an increase in the principal’s workload by combining principal positions. The unit cost of upper secondary school education covers only 87 per cent of the costs. Municipalities compensate for this difference with their own additional funding, which is more than the municipality, which is less. In 2013, the unit price of upper secondary school education was still EUR 6730, compared to just over 6,000 in 2018. In practice, it has not been possible to obtain savings from study facilities or other services, but rather from teaching. The cuts to liberal education, such as adult education centres, are reflected, among other things, in the combination of adult education centres and the closure of offices. Course fees have gone up. The same trend will continue, although lifelong learning will play an increasingly important role in the restructuring of working life. At the same time, the role of liberal education in immigrant education has become increasingly important. Mr President! We are opposed to index freezes, which undermine the financing of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. In practice, the adaptation of activities combined with other direct cuts in education means layoffs, bans on replacements, larger group sizes, lower optionality and a reduction in the number of teaching. The most severe cuts are directed at young people under the threat of exclusion. In view of the above, we will propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u88	Mr President! At first reading, we now have a government proposal to amend the Law on Financing Education and Culture and the Act on Free Cultural Work. In plain language, it is the freezing of index increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u94	Mr President! Objection 1 states all the essential reasons why this bill should be rejected. It's a clear cut, isn't it? The freezing of the indices together with other huge savings on education, research and education undermines the future of society, including by reducing the quality of education. These huge savings are also absurd because, in the longer term, public finances can only be strengthened by investing in knowledge and growth, not by cutting. Investing in children and young people and their education is the best future investment that can be made in society. For example, exclusion is linked to low levels of education, reduced literacy and differentiation of learning outcomes. Every young person who is excluded is a human and economic loss to society as a whole. These savings can cost society enormously in the future. These alternative costs have not been assessed at all by the government. As the government itself admits, the providers of education have had to adjust their activities to the resources available, and this has meant the development of inequalities by region, while in other municipalities it has been possible to compensate for cuts with the municipality's own funding and in other municipalities it has not. Depending on the municipality in which the child and the young person live, they have very different opportunities to learn and receive good education. This is indeed an unfair development. Once again, the Government proposal lacks comprehensive impact assessments. The committee notes in its report that the impact of the government's proposal must also be assessed in conjunction with the ongoing and previous austerity measures. Many experts are concerned about the cumulative effects of the proposed and already implemented austerity decisions. This is also acknowledged by the representatives of the government parties in the committee. It is also sad that the impact assessments of the savings decisions made in the museum, art and culture have not been carried out, although we are well aware of the importance of these areas, for example, for social well-being and the preservation of cultural heritage. The Government talks a lot about promoting health and well-being, but at the same time it weakens the possibilities for implementing welfare-supporting and promoting measures in municipalities. Finally, Mr President, cuts in free-of-the-art education have led, for example, to the unification of adult education centres and the abolition of offices across the country and also to higher fees for courses. More people have to wonder whether they can afford to take courses at adult education centres, for example. There is a great contradiction here with the principles and objectives of lifelong learning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u95	Madam President! The government proposal before us is untenable and cannot be supported by the Green Parliamentary Group. The freezing of indices undermines the foundation of Finnish education and civilisation, given the billion-dollar savings already allocated to education. This presentation has a negative impact on the quality of education: it reduces resources in basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and basic art education. In addition, there will be weakening in the museum, art and culture sectors. Moreover, the continuation of savings in education is not justified as the economic situation is improving. Government action leads to regional inequality. Not all municipalities can afford to compensate for these savings. As far as adult education centres are concerned, small localities, rural villages, are no longer able to provide adult education activities at all or only in a very limited way. The cuts in upper secondary schools, on the other hand, have focused especially on teaching itself: group sizes have grown, the supply of optional courses has decreased and self-learning without guidance has increased. The proposal also contradicts the Government's objectives regarding, for example, the expansion of the knowledge base of adult education and the promotion of access to basic art education. Mr President! Investment in cultural, educational and social capital is vital. It increases both mental and material growth, development and productivity throughout society. Unfortunately, this government proposal goes in exactly the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u96	Mr President! This is one of those sad government proposals. This is one of the government's proposals which, in fact, betray the promise of education that all parties made in the elections, that this is enough cutting out of education and that is no longer what should be done — and that is what is happening. We have often been concerned here, for example, about the situation in children's primary school and about the fact that there is absolutely no need for surgery; on the contrary, there should be an emphasis on equality in education, and that is a great concern. The representatives above, including Mr Gustafsson, Mr Eloranta and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, drew attention to this particular equality and inequality, and that is a big deal if the development of inequality starts from childhood. And in my opinion, what is quite typical and descriptive of government policy is not only this proposal but also the first cut in school equality and group allowances, and with a big hand, and then it was given back with a very small jump and now we're banging on the suspenders to pretend to be invested. On the contrary, you're going in the wrong direction. But, President-in-Office, we have often talked about education, but it is also good that a lot of cultural issues have been raised in the speeches, and I would also like to say a few words about them. In other words, I think today is a real threat if the sustainable financing base for culture is to be demolished. I have often said that culture increases human mental well-being, and in times like this if culture is important, and it is also very important through cultural equality, and I have said that if the state economy is a beach ball, then culture is the size of that ping-pong ball, and if it is completely withdrawn, then it will not save that beach ball, but vice versa, it will take off the air. That is why I am concerned about the fate of theatres, orchestras and museums, which are, for example, cultural activities in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u97	Mr President! In its Government Programme, Sipilä’s Government has committed itself to the savings needed to cover the public sustainability gap, and this is now one of them. All the savings are troublesome. These savings on cultural services have already been mentioned above, and now that I read about our report, they will amount to just under 21 million between 2012 and 2017, and this additional savings now proposed will be EUR 0.76 million, which means that this is not at all reasonable to what has happened in the previous period. But it is true, as has been said here, what is the significance of cultural services in a regional context? Especially now that tourism is rising especially in Northern Finland, cultural services are also part of the tourist's service and then bring its vitality to the region, so it is a pity that we still have this situation, that we have to make these savings. But, Mr Gustafsson, you have not missed the fact that the government has now turned around and the situation is better? Employment is increasing and, therefore, as we have recorded in committee, this favourable economic development will have an opportunity at the end of the parliamentary term — we hope that all of this will happen in this Chamber — to finally see how cultural services, education, science and research, for example, are invested and developed. So let us take action so that we can improve this state's financial situation and then invest in it as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u98	Mr President! The Government's proposal therefore proposes an index freeze to finance certain tasks under the Pre-school and Basic Education Act. Similarly, savings, which are very regrettable, would also target, among other things, upper secondary school education. Similarly, savings corresponding to the index increase would be made in the financing of liberal educational institutions. Education institutions for liberal education are folk high schools, adult education centres, study centres, sports training centres and summer universities. We, the True Finns, see that, especially in economically difficult times, the importance of free civilization is emphasised as a maintainer and strengthening of mental alertness. Cooperation with adult education centres in the educational institutions of liberal education should be increased so that it is also possible to organise courses related to their continuing education in the educational institutions or courses of liberal education. In this context, it should be borne in mind that the activities of folk high schools, adult education centres, summer universities and similar educational institutions meet a million citizens each year and are therefore of great importance. Unfortunately, this government proposal jeopardises regional equality, and this is exacerbated by the fact that the number of pupils in liberal education is small, especially in remote areas, and that there are major challenges to finance activities through participation and course fees. Mr President! Education is the cornerstone of Finland's success, and especially now that the economy has finally started to rise, it should be a springing up season that should be seen in a positive way in terms of increased funding for education, not in terms of cuts. As Mrs Elomaa pointed out earlier in this debate, the Finns of Peru will present at second reading the rejection of the bill in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u99	Mr President! In my previous speech, I did not raise the issue of liberal civilised work, as Mr Savio mentioned and spoke about, among other things. After all, we have had meetings, certainly with representatives from many regions, with those involved in free civilised work. So did we in Pirkanmaa, and from there we received good greetings and heard the concern that came in general, for example, with regard to this financing of liberal civilised work. And, as has been said, both in terms of culture and in terms of liberal education, I think it is a very important element in terms of education and equality, that we have our folk high school, our adult education centres, the adult education centres, the study centres, all of this. It is a magnificent field, it should not be undermined if you can say so, so once and for all we must be able to secure the resources of free civilization in the future. President! As far as funding for culture is concerned: For example, during the short period of last year, when I was given the role of Minister of Culture myself, in relation to the framework I had before me, I was given an increase in the budget for culture. So that's when 10 million came in for a refund, 4 million for a quote. Almost 5 million of the bet was taken out for culture, then 2 million went to exercise and youth for this. This may show that you do not always have to give yourself up to the idea that you have to operate. In this case, Mr President, I would like to remind you of an important issue relating specifically to this issue of state participation in cultural activities, which we have discussed today. Now a working group is standing to consider the overall reform of the system of state subsidies — these museums, theatres, orchestras — and there I see strongly that this work is necessary and useful in itself, but because the government has said that it must be cost-neutral, so many estimates say that it will not be possible to do so just because there have been quite a lot of these pinches in history in the sector. That's why I already want to leave it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u100	Mr President! I must acknowledge to Mrs Parviainen, the representative of the centre, who I have appreciated, that she is courageously here to defend this government proposal insofar as it is now possible. And that's not even possible from Mrs Parviainen, but I'm glad you're here. There have been no members of the coalition here during the whole debate. I also wanted to refer to this new system of state subsidies which is now being made for the cultural field. This protest by our Social Democrats states that what was heard from experts is that according to the calculations, museums, theatres and orchestras have been taken so that additional funding of at least EUR 12 million would correct these effects of the cutbacks in the 2010s and enable the necessary reforms and the inclusion of new players. I have also heard from experts a larger figure, which is approaching EUR 20 million, but in view of the whole field of culture, it is a relatively small amount of money when we talk about EUR 15 to EUR 20 million. I hope that now the government will continue to press on so that this money can then be obtained in connection with this reform of the VOS.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u101	Mr President! I would like to say to Mrs Parviainen that I have concerns about the development of exclusion and segregation that is happening right now and today, because these costs, which will result from it, will perhaps still be paid after decades. After all, this happened as a result of poor management in the 1990s, which means that decades of costs were paid back, and I am now afraid that this will also happen as a result of these savings. Mr President! On the other hand, savings in science, research and development will feed on future growth. We'll never be able to compete with anything but knowledge. That is our competitive edge of international competition. Therefore, education, science, research should not be saved even in difficult economic times, because it is to take opportunities from the future. Thirdly, it should be possible for everyone to participate in a culture and in the activities of free culture, and it should be a basic service, or, in my opinion, it should be a fundamental right. This fundamental right is now threatened by these reductions in activity and increases in payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u102	Mr President! In this debate earlier on, what has happened in that previous regime and we heard from it then, we are now waiting for Karvis to give us an assessment of what the savings of the previous regime are. In my opinion, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs also wisely wrote to this effect that we should also look forward to what has happened during this term of government. But now, by the end of this year, we should be able to find out that we will actually be able to examine what has been the impact on cultural rights since the decisions taken in the previous period. 2014 has been adopted a statement in which this has been decided, that is, great wisdom from the previous period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u103	Mr President! Now that there's a chance for just a minute and two to talk about culture, I'm happy to take advantage of this. One thing comes to mind about culture and cultural services and their availability, mental well-being and its payment note. It is difficult to calculate, but we know that without culture we would be lost. Everyone uses cultural services every week, undetected, even the type of person who says this about culture that he hates it. But now that there is more to be said and more to say about culture and the opportunity to do so, I would like to say that I would also like to see domestic small record companies, small local radios, under pressure from large international companies. We must note that if we also want to preserve that national culture in the future, we must support these small players better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u104	Mr President! Mr Parviainen, I would like to say that this report by the National Evaluation Centre — Karvi, the National Evaluation Centre, which will therefore assess our national education policy — was published on Monday this week and specifically concerned the savings made during the previous period by the government and the others. There was an interesting research result, and that was that, when the savings were made back then, too much, in my opinion, the municipalities have been able to make up for these savings in a significant way. The report and conclusions of this Karvi itself stated that there were no significant regional or gender-related effects, i.e. those that would be the size of the mega-group. It is partly because when I was also two years Minister of Education myself, in 2012 I increased EUR 60 million to be used to reduce the size of teaching groups and EUR 23 million to be used by municipalities to support this kind of positive area, where there is a lot of unemployment, where parents have a low level of education or have immigrants, i.e. a total of EUR 83 million. So it's really big money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u105	Madam President! In this speech by Mr Gustafsson, it is good to continue that, when these cuts had to be made, all the parties together, unitedly made a promise before the elections that there would now be no further cuts in education. I therefore wonder, for example, now, President, in this debate, where is our former 'civilization' party. It is now excellent to be absent, even if I would like the House to be here now to discuss this matter. When there are often messages from that part of the hall about how brilliant things are now for Finland, I would also like to hear how they see the risks of this educational situation when these cuts are constantly being made. I am sitting in the Committee on Finance, and when we hear economists in the Section for Education and Science, but also in the Committee as a whole, everyone has an unambiguous message: it is not wise to cut out of education in this time. It is unambiguous. I have often said that do you find any economists or economic experts, not to mention educational professionals or families or children who could say that education cuts are in any way wise at the moment? President! To that end, I would like to underline that last season, however, we wanted to see action being taken to increase equality and combat inequality, and even in difficult times, more money was being invested in reducing student groups. The Social Democratic Education Ministers did this, Jukka Gustafsson — good work — just now told us what happened. Well, now that this government came, these equality funds were being massively cut, and now that a little is being returned, let's imagine some trick being given the impression that now, as it were, more money is being made, but there's a big cut in the background. You don't get it by talking to someone else, and I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u106	Mr President! It was not possible to attend or follow the event on Monday, even online, so it is still unexplored. But is it not a good thing that the Committee on Education and Rural Development has now thought that this evaluation work should also continue and see what the effects have been this period? With regard to the budget, we will probably be able to discuss these additions in more detail now. For example, if the money for positive discrimination is added to the current period, I think it is a good increase, but we will continue this debate in the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u107	Mr President! However, a small border, Mr Viitanen, is that way. I'm sure these cuts in this sector don't feel good in the government either, but something has to be done. Your balance over the last period: 100,000 unemployed, and if you look at the costs alone, you talk about spending billions of dollars, that it has got one or more people thinking about how this country has turned around. And we've got it. Growth in the economy gives rise to figures that could not even be thought of two and a half years ago. This gives us confidence in the future that we will also be able to build education and training policies in the future so that scarcity will not be the first thing we have in our hands, but visions can be much brighter. So that's a small limit. On some basis, and this time on a very bad basis, this was the starting point for this regime, and fortunately, progress has been made in a better direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u108	Mr President! I would not like to say this, but a small limit to what the government is now doing with its own choices of value. Now the government is disparate in this society. Now that we have talked about this last period, we have tables that are sad in terms of equality, that inequality, precisely as a result of the increase in income differentials, this government will increase. During the previous government, income differentials narrowed, during this government they grow. By the way, there's a calculation of Parliament's information service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u111	Mr President! Perhaps Mr Heikkinen's speech sat in this position. Then you can also see that this may not necessarily be a great fit. In fact, I am simply referring to the fact that a significant number of economists and researchers say that the fact that employment has now improved — it is an excellent thing — is due to three reasons:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u114	Mr President! The reduction of equality funds has increased group sizes in different parts of Finland. For example, in my own hometown, group sizes grew again. Now we are wondering if there would be an opportunity to increase funding as an activity of our own, because we have noticed that large groups are clearly visible in the activities of schools, in the results of learning and in the comfort of schools. This benefit was particularly felt during the last period when Mr Gustafsson was a minister and when he added these equality funds to make the groups humane. It was the great thing that increased equality and reduced the development of inequality. Now it seems to be moving in a different direction, and this is precisely the bad development in terms of equality and the future of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u115	Madam President! In brief, this growth in employment. I'm sure it's not just the government, it's not just the export...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u118	Madam President! Well, the actions speak differently. Unfortunately, growth does not belong to everyone with this government’s choice of values, but the wealthiest get a pretty big slice and the small ones are cut off. This is a fact, and there is nothing we can do about it. However, I would like the centre people here, for example, to find a little of that embryo heart and spirit. After all, some time ago there was a rather harsh language, a study of the views of the city center field on what kind of policy the government is making. It was felt by the party councillors who were very right-wing, and I would therefore like to see those in the Chamber not so enthusiastically, enthusiastically, in the centre, defending that coalition economic policy. But day after day we see this same thing every day. That is the way it is going to be, and here we have to accept the fact that we have different values. There's nothing you can do about it. In the opinion of the SDP, growth belongs to everyone, and that is why we would make a different choice of values. For example, we would invest in education rather than in surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u119	Madam President! This is where I'm going to open up where we started from. We had a very weak, declining discipline, we had rising unemployment. We had to find new medicines for this, and we are happy to see that growth is stronger at the moment than we could even think and anticipate when the government got this backpack on its back with which we have been tarnished. We have certainly seen in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that we have also had to cut low incomes, but the centre firmly believes that strong state finances are the best protection for the poor. The economy is getting stronger, and I believe that the seeds of well-being are easier to share when there is something in your purse to share.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u120	Mr President! There are two things I would have liked from the government in connection with making these savings. I would have liked the government to have reduced the alternative costs, i.e. to have assessed the cost of these savings in the future. It would have been quite possible to calculate it, and perhaps it would have enabled decisions to be made that are not what has been made. Another wish would be for the government to carry out child impact assessments, as stated in the Government Programme at the time, that decisions are now being taken on the basis of an impact assessment for children. They haven't been made. Moreover, this overall impact assessment is also very poorly done in general and is also reflected in this bill. So now there's been some savings laws coming in here, and every law around it, and there's a little savings being made. But at no time does the government calculate the overall impact of all these savings on families with children, pupils or children in general, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u121	Mr President! I will take the last floor on this issue because it is now running a little overboard. Mr Heikkinen has now emphasised the starting point from which the Sipilä government started. Well, one of the starting points, the very cornerstone, had to be that education was no longer being cut, when it was generally known and I myself, as an expert in education, said that the cuts in education made by the previous government were already at a very extreme level, some of which were over the top. That is why we Social Democrats took it quite seriously that no more cuts are being made, and that is why it is now very sad that this index tooth still bites into education and culture in this context. — Over.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u122	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 14/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u123	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes the introduction of a complaint authorisation system in matters covered by the Environmental Protection Act, the Land Materials Act and the Water Act, and the use of the complaint authorisation would be extended to the Land Use and Construction Act and also to the Nature Conservation Act. When we think about the debate we had here in the early part of the evening on the national targets for regional use, we were very much in agreement on these good objectives, which it contains and which relate, for example, to the transposition of international environmental agreements into Finnish legislation, the fight against climate change, the preservation of biodiversity and the implementation of Agenda 2030 in Finnish planning. Now, as in the case of some of the legislation that has already been adopted, these ideas are being put to the ear when it comes to monitoring that these good things, which we agreed on earlier today, are actually being implemented in Finnish land use. This law effectively undermines the ability of citizens and non-governmental organisations to complain about poor planning or the fact that this is contrary to national principles. The use of the Licensing Scheme in environmental matters has generally been considered difficult and has been treated with restraint, as environmental issues are regionally diverse, complex and legally open to interpretation. The environmental impact of projects may extend over a wide range of areas and target a wide range of stakeholders, and the environmental changes they cause are difficult to eliminate. However, an adequate environmental impact assessment has not been carried out. On the contrary, it is stated that this law has little impact on the environment. However, it limits the rights of citizens and non-governmental organisations to ensure that a good environment is also true in the future. The fact that environmental governance structures are changing very significantly as a result of the ongoing regional reform is also linked to this soup. These issues have also not been considered in this context or what the combined effects of these changes over the last couple of years are. The extension of the system of complaints thus effectively undermines the ability of citizens and organisations to participate in environmental decision-making. It must therefore be considered that this law is a savings law, but savings cannot take precedence over the legal protection of citizens. This complaint authorisation system makes it much more difficult for ordinary people to have their case handled by the Supreme Administrative Court, because applying for a complaint is a lawyer's job. It will not be possible for an ordinary man of math to do so, at least so that the permit would then ease up on that complaint. This may also aim for good things, such as shortening the time for complaints, but there is a better remedy for this. It is to increase the number of hearings in the courts and to ensure that all citizens get their points of view. This also strengthens the public's confidence that society and the state are acting for the common good and impartially.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-29-ps-126.u124	Mr President! Mr Myller raised one important point in his speech, namely political coherence. The Government has adopted and committed itself to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Mr Myller said that sustainable development has not been taken into account in this bill, and I have noticed this same problem several times during this autumn's debates in this Chamber. In other words, there is no sustainable development in the draft law to guide that legislative work, although it should be a red thread, at least if we believe the government, because the government itself has said in Agenda 2030 that it is steering all other legislation from now on. And this is now one example of the fact that the government has not necessarily understood what policy coherence means.
