ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u1	The second point of the order of business is oral Question Time, so I would ask the ministers present to move to the Council of Ministers. And now I would ask those of you who wish to ask a question to a minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u2	Congressman Huovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u3	Mr President! Having a baby is one of the most touching moments of life. Babies move older than us, grandparents, and other people close to them. Unfortunately, these moments are a dramatic decline in Finland. About 52,000 children are now born every year in our country. The number of children born in the last six years alone has decreased by over 1,000 babies per year. The birth rate is influenced by many things. However, there is also a major role to be played in how working and family life can be coordinated. Even now, in many families, mothers and fathers wonder how the care of a small child will be arranged. In Finland, a mother usually stays at home with a small child. Studies and the experience of women show that this has a negative impact on working life, employment and pensions. In recent months, a number of parties have rightly harassed the government in its efforts to reform the current family leave model, so that children's care responsibilities can be shared more equally. Minister, are you going to propose, in the mid-term debate of the government, the launch of the preparations for the reform of family leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u4	Madam President! Such a government proposal is not being prepared for a mid-term debate. But the government has also done many things for families. As far as these employers in women-dominated sectors are concerned and their costs are being shared, the government has offered a lump sum of EUR 2500. It should also be borne in mind that we have, in practice, a home care system — and a day care system — which supports families with children, and home care support as such is also a popular family benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u5	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u6	Mr President! It is sad to hear that the government does not seem to regard this issue as a sufficiently important social issue for its spring spending limits. I'm sure families with children would like a bit of a different approach. In particular, children in Finland, who are 100 years old, should have the right to care for both their parents and their parents during their infancy. Family leave reform would also be important in economic terms, because in our neighbouring country, Sweden, for example, the employment of women aged between 25 and 44 is clearly better than ours. Now you're throwing away a variety of family leave models. It would now be possible for the government to carry out a positive reform, which will increase the flexibility of working and family life rather than cuts, and the time of fathers with their children, and also improve the employment rate of young women. The SDP wants to reform and make family-free people more flexible so that everyone is involved. When this issue has been raised by many quarters, is the government really just going to sit by and watch this debate? Why are you not taking this matter forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u7	Mr President! The representative pointed out here that there are many models, and many models cannot be taken forward at the same time. One thing that I think is clearly lacking in this debate is families. That is, the freedom of families to decide how to share such support as home care. Yes, families are important to the government, and families are also supported by non-family leave models. There are many factors that affect the well-being of families. But you brought up this Swedish model. I understand that there is a situation in Sweden where flexibility in working time is more widespread than in Finland. The flexibility of working time is also in use in Finland, and I also think it is a good way to support different kinds of options for sharing family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u8	Mr President! It is good to talk about freedom of choice for families, but the fact is that less than 10% of the recipients of home care support are men. Yes, that freedom of choice means women stay home. And when the government's objective is to raise the employment rate to 72%, even the government's own Economic Council states that it will not succeed. The key to achieving the 7% higher employment rate in Sweden is the participation of young women in the labour market, the increase in their managerial role and, ultimately, the higher level of pensions. This is therefore an easy and good way for society as a whole to achieve that objective of employment. Minister, have you really not gone any further in this promotion of family leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u9	Mr President! Representative Harakka, I repeat that in Sweden work flexibility is more widely available, more widely available than in Finland. This is perhaps one of the reasons why Sweden has higher employment. It may be that there are more jobs there at the moment than there are in Finland. [Department :So! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u10	Madam President! Many fathers would also like to see the legitimate right of adults to stay out of working life to care for a small child on child care leave in such a way that a part of this leave is also addressed to the father, because today we are still living very strongly under these role models, in which the mother is the primary one who wants to stay. Just as Mr Harakka has said here, so this freedom of choice in this respect usually falls on mothers. Studies advocate that in families where fathers stay to care for the child, the dynamics and cohabitation of the family are more positive and better and that fathers and mothers are happier. Have you thought about how, Minister Mattila, you could help the fathers to stay in care, because now this kind of freedom of choice does not produce the result that fathers would use their parental leave to the same extent?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u11	Mr President! There are also families and their voices, fathers and mothers who are missing from this debate. I appreciate Dad being home. I myself have been in a situation where my father has stayed home to care for the children of our family. Even now, Father has the right to remain. Of course, it is all right that different models should be discussed. The debate broadens in many ways and opens up horizons. But at the moment, the original question was whether there was a government proposal. That is not the government's proposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u12	Madam President! Last season I was the minister responsible for gender equality and commissioned a study on the reasons why family leave was so unevenly distributed. Yes, research shows that employers’ attitude towards parental leave after paternity leave is also negative. Then, if the fathers are clearly earmarked for their own part of family leave, they will also be more positive. Now more parties have made their own presentations, including the Government Party's Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u13	Madam President! Yes, this is where the government has moved forward as well. As I said, there is a lump sum of EUR 2500 for employers in women-dominated sectors. We still have existing family benefits, early childhood education has been developed. I am also calling for the debate to be discussed that there should also be equality between families. Now we are discussing models, now we are discussing whether there are different models among governments. As I said, of course, I am completely open to the debate, but at the moment, as the original question was, there is no government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u14	Mr President! I have recently said, in the case of my own close young families, that it is sometimes very difficult to stay at home because of the employer’s attitude. So Dad would have liked to stay at home, but the employer took it so insinuately that because of his job he decided not to use it for free, and this kind of attitude in working life is still there. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u18	Mr President! The renewal of family leave is not a matter for the assembly. The Coalition Party announced its own model this week, which will increase the freedom of choice and flexibility of families. The convention model encourages work but enables the child to be taken care of at home until the child turns 3 years old. The coalition model also supports equal parenthood and improves the position of women in the labour market. Let me ask the Prime Minister again: will you be prepared to consider the reform of family leave in the spring? Now that good models have been presented, there is no reason to oppose the reform of family leave, except the ideological desire to keep women at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u19	Mr President! I have already answered this question. In other words, we have an incentive trap working group, a working group of officials to complete their report tomorrow, a work on which we will go through the future headlines there and make decisions on it in the mid-term debate. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u20	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Last year employment increased by 34,000 people, and that is a good thing, but only 3,000 of them are women. It says that working life is more unequal today than it was a few years ago. This is a fact. Mr Mattila! It seems that the coalition wants reforms; the centre speaks a little in that direction. Is it the case that the Finns of Peru are the stopper of reform here? It is quite clear that if we do not intervene in family leave, we will not make working life more equal and then we will not achieve this target of 72% employment. In this situation, would it not be honest to re-evaluate the position and to see it as a strategic objective and to re-evaluate its own positions on family leave on that basis?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u21	Mr President! The Finns are in the government and the responsible government party. Together, the government will take these things forward. But, yes, thank you, in that sense, to the model of the assembly, which Mr Vikman did not raise, for the great involvement of grandparents. I would also like this to be included in this debate. But what has been discussed here about the attitude of employers is really, really unfortunate if you have a nimble attitude. Above all, we need an attitude modification, not necessarily a law. And I would also like to make it clear to the debate that the overall employment rate in Sweden is currently better than in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u22	Mr President! With regard to the employment of women, how does the government promote the employment of immigrant women if, for cultural or religious reasons, women in these families are not wanted to go to work? I would also like to raise the issue of female entrepreneurs, those small businesses which have only one employee, when such a one-off subsidy would also be needed during their family leave, because of the company's expenses, YEL payments and so on. However, they travel during that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u23	Madam President! As far as social security is concerned, it is indeed the case that the social protection of entrepreneurs across the shores should be improved. It is certainly as important as this debate on family leave — that is to say, women entrepreneurs as entrepreneurs in the rest of the world — and in that respect we need to find out what this government can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u24	Mr President! When you look at the debate, perhaps there is not one reform on which experts so widely agree with this reform of family leave, and here there are a number of different models available to the government. I do believe that, together with the families, if the government were to take this handbrake off now, this would be an opportunity to build a model that would improve the labour market position of women, increase the employment rate and be flexible for families, for example, so that they could also be broken up and used later, which would, for example, improve the position of temporary workers. But, Mr President, it was not quite clear what the government's position was on this. This Question Time started with the fact that the corresponding minister said that such a proposal is not coming, the Prime Minister said that perhaps is coming, and the Coalition Party said that this kind of thing will come. Prime Minister Sipilä has said that the objective is the most important and the means do not matter. Are you prepared to use this method, Prime Minister Sipilä? Is this government prepared to give women a better position in the labour market, employment and family flexibility?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u25	Mr President! As I said, we have a working group ready tomorrow. Then we will begin the joint work of the government on this issue, which will last until the middle-party. Then we'll make decisions. Anticipating those decisions at this stage, when we have not yet received the report of the working group, would be very premature. But when the employment rate of women in Finland is so much lower than that of men, there are surprising observations here, among other things, that the employment rate of women between the ages of 45 and 55 has suddenly fallen from 2014 to then, if I remember correctly, by 4 percentage points at the same time as the employment rate has generally increased by 1 percentage point. We have something more behind the employment rate for women here than just this low employment rate for young women, and that is something that must be addressed as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u26	Mr President! I was delighted that Mrs Huovinen's first question raised the low birth rate of Finns as an approach. There can be a variety of models, and we hope that the issue of Finnish families will be shared. I also believe that there can only be one model for the government, and I am sure that the best thing would be for the government to start a large-scale preparation. However, with regard to the employment rate, it was said here that the key to this would be the reform of family leave. I think the best key to employment is job creation. Secondly, the best key to equality is equal pay and a quota for fathers in earnings-related family leave. Prime Minister, what do you think about the fact that I too believe that the atmosphere of attitude is also important in addition to the actual reform? Could you have a serious discussion with the social partners on how to change the role of fathers in the workplace in order to remove the unpleasant atmosphere surrounding family leave and also increase the use of flexible care allowance, which is an excellent part of our family leave legislation already now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u27	Mr President! As I said earlier, we also have a lot of attitudeal problems in the workplace, in that fathers do not keep as much freedom as current legislation allows,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u30	Madam President! In Finland, fathers hold less than 10 per cent of parental leave, while in Sweden they hold about 25 per cent. There is a lot of talk here that there is a problem of attitude in the workplace. Madam President, that is the problem with money. In Sweden, all companies jointly contribute to a fund that pays the costs of parental leave — whether it has own employees who receive babies or whether it is a neighbouring undertaking. In Finland, this attitude is maintained by the fact that every entrepreneur pays just as much for his bag as employees keep parental leave. It would therefore be essential to address this and to make this financial system more balanced. Is there going to be any change?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u31	Madam President! Of course, what debate is being held there at the moment on the employer side, I cannot answer — this is also, of course, a matter to be prepared on a tripartite basis. But I also stress that, at the moment, fathers in Finland also have the opportunity to stay, there is the possibility of taking parental leave. This government has also provided a lump sum of EUR 2500 for these women-dominated sectors, so it has not been completely undone. But of course, the debate is always good, considering the different options is good. So it is that working life, family life are also living in time and, of course, we need reforms at some point, but at the moment what was asked is not a government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u32	Madam President! The real freedom of choice for families is, above all, limited by the fact that we have an inequality of pay between men and women on the labour market. In that sense, it seems strange that this home care allowance has now been put on the stick when it can be granted to both grandparents who care for the child at home or, for example, outside the family who care for the child at home. The only limitation on home care support is that the child should not then be taken to public, municipal day care, and in that sense these arguments, which ideologically go down this home care system, are strange. It does not require parents not to be involved in working life. It is strange for us to have a budget of between EUR 10000 and EUR 14,000 per year in society outside a home of less than three years old, while at the same time this home care allowance there is only EUR 300 and rapes. I would have asked: What, in fact, is profitable here? In the case of a child under 3 years of age, is it not economically profitable to have the possibility of caring for a child at home through home care support?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u33	Madam President! If I interpreted the question correctly — that the representative raised this current situation and the good practices involved and the possibility for families to choose — then I will continue to interpret it so that this home care allowance is a popular family benefit and can be used by fathers and mothers, and we are currently and are doing what is included in this government programme, and the parties themselves go to the parliamentary elections with their own programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u35	Madam President! First of all, of course, it must be said that it is very interesting that the government parties here in Parliament must question each other's opinion on such an important social issue. But it's a good thing there's a place for that inquiry, too. Minister, you stressed on several occasions in your replies that fathers also have the opportunity to stay — there is an opportunity to stay. Are you not concerned, Minister, with these statistics, which I am sure you are familiar with when you are a qualified person? There is a clear hole in these employment cones of young women. Compared to Sweden, young women in Finland participate very little in the labour market and this will have an impact on their working lives and pensions. Don't you worry about these real statistics? It must also be said, Minister, that these attitudes are important. Society must show direction. As a minister, I also received a significant number of contacts from young fathers who said that when there is no social support, there is no possibility either. Would you mind commenting on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u36	Madam President! Yes, thank you, I can comment. You brought up this feedback. I also receive feedback from the Ministry, including feedback that it is good that home care support is defended and that there are good things in it. And Daddy has a choice, but yes, if there's something to change in the attitudeal atmosphere, then you have to think about how to start changing it. I think the Prime Minister also answered this question in relation to the reasons for staying at the home of young women, the background to unemployment: that it is a bigger problem and will be considered as part of the various measures taken by the government, i.e. employment measures, among others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u37	Next question, representative plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u38	Mr President! In recent weeks, a lot of feedback has been received on the unsuccessful transfer of income support to the Social Insurance Institution. The workload of processing applications and the necessary social skills have been seriously underestimated, applications have not been processed in time, personal assessments have not been carried out, no applicants have been found, cooperation with municipalities is not working, and the situation of income support applicants is intolerable. For example, Espoo Social Security had to share the handkerchief packages with the hatches because so many customers from Kela start their business with crying. Kela has announced that she will correct the situation, but will it succeed, especially after the government has cut Kela's resources in its budget? My question is: how will the government ensure that the legal and factual processing of income support applications can be secured immediately?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u39	Madam President! Yes, these problems relating to the payment and treatment of income support must be solved. Kela is the expert organisation that handles this issue. The problems associated with human daily life must be solved precisely in relation to this income support. It must also be said, of course, that Kela is also a parliamentary institution, and thank you to the Kela delegation, which has also been active in this area. Kela's management has responded to this and I am aware of what they have done. So they've ended up with extra recruitment. They have paid particular attention to the order of urgency as to whether certain matters can now be dealt with in the order of urgency over certain matters. In obvious cases Kela also corrects without a requirement for correction. - I'm sorry, I think this is the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u40	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u41	Mr President! The delay in granting income support has overshadowed the tightening of the criteria for granting the income support in connection with the transfer to Kela. Kela has drawn up its own guidelines which conflict with the previous guidelines of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. For example, in the case of 18-year-old upper secondary school students, the instructions are completely contradictory. According to the Ministry, a high school student does not have to raise student loans to receive support because the upper secondary school does not prepare for the profession. Instead, Kela believes that the loan must be increased. Kela encourages exclusion: quit studies and you will receive money. Not everyone dares to go into debt for high school because the matriculation examination does not guarantee a job, let alone a place of study. High school is threatening to become a new high school that not everyone can afford. My question is: how does the government ensure the study opportunities of all young people who are willing to read regardless of whether their parents can afford to finance their children’s high school?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u42	Madam President! The questioner now refers to the legal basis for Kela, which is therefore an executive organisation. In those respects, if there is one in the legal base that requires a clear examination, then of course the Ministry must be prepared to revise and amend the legal base. In the same way, I understand that Kela is also aware of this and has promised to look at this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u43	Mr President! The Finnish education system is built in such a way that we must have equal opportunities, that is, everyone must have the opportunity to study in upper secondary school, regardless of their background, family wealth and place of residence. I am aware of this new situation, as Mr Mattila has already said. Yesterday, I discussed the matter with Elli Aaltonen, the CEO of Kela, and they are going through these guidelines from Kela. We will return to them when we get more information on how Kela intends to instruct us in the future, but as the main rule, the Director-General assured us that the situation would not deteriorate for anyone now as a result of this change. So we are trying to deal with this situation, but of course the primary task of Kela is to look at those guidelines now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u44	Mr President! Income support is a last resort benefit that should pay for food, housing and medicines if there is no money anywhere else. Now people have had to wait in doubt and despair for Kela's decisions without money, and messages, really alarmed messages, have come to us a lot. During the spring, the decisions on long-term income support for thousands of people are running out. The traffic's only gonna get worse. This is indeed a national scandal. The transfer of income support to Kela was not supposed to be a savings decision, but it has been, unfortunately, at the expense of people on low incomes. Minister! In municipalities, avi and Valvira controlled the processing times of income support, which could impose periodic penalty payments on municipalities if the time limits were exceeded. As you said, Kela is supervised by Kela's own council. Kela does not have these excess handling times
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u45	Madam President! I am not going to be a judge here for what the Kela delegation has done under its control. I believe that it works quite properly. But these problems of payment and handling must be resolved, and, as Minister Grahn-Laasonen said here, so the government also has a close discussion with Kela's management, with the Kela Government. We know that Kela's management team deals with this issue every week, almost every day. Additional recruitments, which have also been initiated, have been authorised. Yes, unfortunately, there has also been a lot of overtime in Kela, and I hope that this organisation will be able to cope with it, and we also need to step up cooperation. In particular, cooperation, information — and this has also been done — with municipalities must be stepped up and, of course, the use of electronic systems should be made more efficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u46	Mr President! This reform has been known for a couple of years, and there are a lot of good objectives here. The fact that Kela pays the basic part of the income support can guarantee that it is less a cause of shame and that the last security is more accessible to more people. But this goal now became a travesty; this transition period has been so poorly managed. Now the government and Kela must ensure that no human being is deprived of basic income support is able to manage the medicines, food and other necessary daily expenses. For these low-income people, several weeks without money is a tough spot. I would now like to ask the Finance Minister responsible for the budget and Minister Mattila how the government allowed this to happen so that these funds were not increased, and is the government prepared to increase the funds now if the internal funds of Kela are not sufficient. From Minister Mattila, I will check that when in the municipalities benefit treatment was carried out by social work professionals who were able to evaluate the social work as a whole, these professionals are not employed in Kela, but those on the commercial side are doing these treatments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u47	Mr President! First of all, this is a very serious matter and, of course, it must be dealt with, because it is the low-income, low-income people who really depend on these decisions and on the payment of the money on time. This should be treated as soon as possible, that is quite clear. That's what the government is working for. Minister Mattila has told us a great deal about what is to be done. STM and Kela engage in continuous dialogue. Kela has been given the opportunity to recruit additional staff. After all, in the municipalities where this work is no longer being done, this staff should be directed. When this transfer was made, this was not a savings decision. At the time, Kela’s management felt that these resources were sufficient and that they could handle these. This matter has now come to the attention of the government, as has been said, in this difficulty and in this horror, and we will do everything we can to make this right for us. Kela has the primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u48	Mr President! Yes, we need to fix this problem. These problems relating to the processing of income support must be solved in such a way that people get the help they need in everyday life. As far as this professional requirement is concerned, I also believe that Kela is an expert organisation. It works and is sure to keep an eye on and engage in discussions within this organisation as well, what and how much and what kind of professional skills are needed there, so I am confident that Kela will work at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u49	Madam President! Now this transfer of the basic part of income support to Kela has really freed up a great deal of resources there for the actual adult social work in municipalities and joint municipal boards. I would have asked the minister: Is there any information on whether the municipalities have now redirected these working hours and resources of adult social work, actual social work professionals, to that actual social work rather than this payment and processing? And how can this resource be used better in the future to deal with social work with families?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u50	Madam President! Just like this: when this law was prepared last season in 2014, it was intended not only to make the resources more flexible but also to release the resources from the municipalities. It's been a good purpose of the law. I do not have the actual number or the amount of information that has now been discussed with the municipalities. But I know that Kela cooperates weekly, day-to-day, with municipalities so that these customer matters can be handled as well as possible, and surely now that this worst rush is over, these worst problems can be resolved, and then we will be able to analyse them further.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u51	Mr President! Unfortunately, these answers from the Minister are not convincing. When the Left Alliance first raised this situation two weeks ago, the Minister had not even heard of the problems involved in this transfer. These problems have not yet been resolved. At the end of this month, there are 25,000 decisions on long-term income support in Helsinki alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u54	Mr President! First of all, to this question, did I not hear it? There was obviously an example of Mr. Pekonen at the time. Yes, we receive daily feedback to the Ministry. The Ministry will respond to these contacts from citizens, as regards the current problems, among other things. It must also be remembered that Kela also makes many other decisions, many other everyday matters in Finnish society. But the question is that this acute problem now needs to be resolved. I have listed here what has happened with Kela every day, what is done by Kela's Board of Directors. Also, as I said, I would like to thank the Kela delegation, which supervises Kela, for having taken a position here. And so, there is a problem, these deadlines have not been reached and there have been additional recruitments, there have been overtime. But all these measures and further active efforts must be made to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u55	Mr President! Payment of basic income support was transferred to the Social Insurance Institution at the beginning of the year, and the current situation in payment is very serious. A last benefit is not in the situation of the level required by the law. The delegates of the Social Insurance Institution have followed the matter closely and we have required Kela to take the measures without delay to ensure that the payment is made to the level required by law. We have noted that the additional resources that the Kela Government has allocated must be put into effect quickly. And I have spoken with the Minister and with Kela's Board of Directors and Kela's Director General that if there is a need for additional resources, the Government must immediately provide an additional budget. Kela must also take those steps in such a way that the payment of other benefits is not delayed. And what is essential — and I want to say this here when people are also watching and listening — if it is a matter of urgency that there is no food or medicine, then Kela will have the same day
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u56	Madam President! As far as I was concerned, I did not find a question here but many answers, as the chairman of the delegation knows. That is the way it must be done: we need to increase resources, we need to solve these problems and we need to have a debate with the ministry and the government. People need to be helped in this situation, in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u57	Mr President! There are a lot of very poor people out there now, the most vulnerable Finns who expect money for food or medicine — elderly people, families with children — and many different kinds of fates. I remember when 2009 unemployment exploded into the hands of certain regions and then a change was made to the Unemployment Protection Act, which made it possible to pay for this kind of rapid lump sum, when it was not possible to meet the processing times, it took months to deal with them. Would this be an option, Prime Minister Sipilä, for you to bring together the key ministers and decide that this problem will now be dealt with as quickly as possible from the point of view of these people, to decide by way of a temporary solution that money can be given to these people for the necessary expenditure as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u58	Mr President! This is obvious that these operational problems need to be addressed. After all, the Government's proposal for this has already been submitted in January 2015, during the previous government. Obviously, all of us here believe that the basis for this reform is the right one. But now, in this situation, which is currently under way, as a government, we have discussed this issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u59	Mr President! Unfortunately, it is a question of guidance. In a number of municipalities, social workers have the impression that discretionary or urgent income support can only be granted once Kela has made its decision —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u60	Mr President! Yes, people must be helped in their everyday lives and these problems must be solved. As the Prime Minister has said and I myself have said in the past, if there are some regulations in the legal basis that need to be amended, then it will be possible to do so if it comes to us, for example, from the direction of Kela, that this should be done. I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u61	Next question, Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u62	Ärade talman, Mr President! Regeringen lanserade nu sin landskapsreform. Vårdreformen blev alltså en landskapsreform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u63	Mr President! It is the solution, precisely this aspect of social welfare reform in this regional reform, that we have been able to see for many years that the structure of municipalities to respond, organise, produce and finance mainly social and health services, that there is great inequality between people in these services, especially in relation to basic health care, and that is the solution. We all know that wider shoulders are needed, and wider shoulders are the answer, that is, 18 provinces, and that is how we will be able to secure those basic services. The most important thing at this point is that we are able to implement the safeguarding of fundamental rights, which is at the heart of social and health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u64	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u65	Mr President, värderade talman! I did not understand how this regional reform is now improving this basic health care, but I would like to move on to the following question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u66	Mr President! On this question of democracy, that is to say the size of the councils: the size of the delegations will be 59-99 in this bill, which will be here next Tuesday evening in a referral debate. I also explained in the Ministry of Justice what is also in the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal for this Uusimaa, what problems would arise if Uusimaa, as I have been in contact with me, had separate constituencies within the province. It would also make it a problem that, when decisions are made about the common affairs of the whole province, the future provinces will have to take care of the whole province, but if there were still partial constituencies there, then it would be quite likely that those people elected from the constituencies would concentrate solely on the pursuit of the affairs of their own territory, and that is not the intention. It is intended that every regional councillor should be concerned about matters in the region as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u67	Värderade Talman! Det är ju en massiv reform regeringen nu ämtar hit till riksdagen, och ganska anmärkningsvärt är att regeringen valde att inte hålla någon press conference kring den raus stora reformen som faktiskt är historisk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u68	Mr President! We have, of course, reported on these many stages of reform several times during the briefings. Today, at 1 p.m., there was a Government session in which this large package of laws was decided, 34 laws in all, and they have also been published. The summaries are available to all of you, including MPs, and also to this kind of big slide series. We will keep this issue on the agenda a great deal. There will be a referral debate here next Tuesday, and there will be a great deal of information about this – as you well know, Mr Henriksson – on the regional reform website.fi. In other words, this has certainly not been carried forward by a switched-off lantern. I will return briefly to the first question and the way in which this regional reform will improve social services in particular. Yes, I have to say that in a number of municipalities, smaller and larger, the problem has been that municipalities have had to pay quite unexpectedly for special care, and we want to have strong enough financial shoulders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u69	Mr President! I was also wondering about your answer to that first question, and it was a good thing that the Minister supplemented it. The understanding of normal Finns is not always sufficient as to why this regional reform is now being taken alongside this reform of social welfare and health care. Many people do not understand when, for example, in my province the government is acting to drive Satakunta to the point that health centers, for example, can end in smaller localities. I suppose this does not sound like the kind of reform that would be pursued in order to improve social and health care services. That is why we sometimes wonder whether this exercise of the provincial government has become an end in itself. I would ask you again, Minister, to consider whether driving this provincial government is not a secondary objective and the primary objective should be to improve social and health care services. That's what we all want here, isn't it? I would ask you again, Minister, whether the benefits are to be promoted as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u70	I note that the reform of social and health services in this reform is, of course, the most important thing for the citizens. We all share it. Many governments have tried to do so and have failed. We also remember that, at the end of the last parliamentary term, there was a proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health at the end of the parliamentary term, which then fell with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have had quite a number of starting points where, in fact, the individual municipality is too small to manage social and health services and there is a desire to make a change — wider shoulders to organise this issue, and funding from the state will come at this point in order to safeguard this issue. But then, from the point of view of regional reform, it is quite clear that we have a very confused regional government, both the state administration and the regional administration based on joint municipal authorities, and we want to bring it together. It is quite clear in the Government Programme that we are putting these together, and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u71	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u72	Madam President! Finland will be President of the Arctic Council of the Nordic countries, Canada, the United States and Russia this spring. The interest of the Arctic region is also demonstrated by the fact that there are also Arctic Council observers from countries that are not directly Arctic, such as South Korea, India, China and Japan. During the past week, Foreign Minister Soini visited China and there were also Arctic issues in the discussions. In speeches on Arctic issues, Finland has highlighted, among other things, environmental values, mitigation of climate change, logistics, communication, education and, for example, high meteorological expertise that exists in Finland. For a long time, Finland has been envisioned about the Arctic line and fast data connections from Europe through the Arctic to Asia. What concrete objectives does the Finnish Government have during its Presidency of the Arctic Council not only in terms of international policy but also in terms of individual projects to be promoted?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u73	Madam President! A very important and pleasant question. China, which is now an observer, is also extremely interested in this, and they are going to be very active. There's a lot of business opportunities here. Our programme is very ambitious. It's being introduced to Washington, and then we're going to Fairbanks to pick up the jerk. The focus is on environmental protection, communications, meteorology and education. This is a great opportunity for Finland in many respects — environmental, indigenous — but also in that we are at a table where the United States and Russia are at the same time. The European High Representative, Mr Mogherini, will also visit Finland in June, which is a pretty good model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u74	We still have time to ask further questions if we are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u75	Mr President! Arctic policy is often expressed in programmes and strategies as vague hopes and objectives. Fewer specific measures could be taken in the regions. The railway route through Finland to the Arctic Sea is one concrete way to improve the accessibility of the Arctic region. The track would benefit, among other things, the Norwegian fishing industry, domestic forestry and extractive industries and reduce the environmental impact of transport and improve road safety compared to road transport. For tourism, the route through Finland to the Arctic Sea would also open up new opportunities. I would like to ask whether this is an objective that the government should now take forcefully forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u76	Madam President! The Arctic is indeed one of the very concrete projects on which we have discussed most recently with the Norwegian Minister for Transport and have considered what kind of cooperation we have in promoting such a joint project. We have looked at what funding models could be associated with it, how the impact assessments of this could be carried out in the regions — as you mentioned, because there are several aspects — and at the same time an attempt was made to assess how this transport package could be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u77	Mr President! This is my question about the Tallinn tunnel. In other words, I see it precisely as part of the Arctic, and I would like to ask what stage these studies are at, what is involved in it, what is their business at the moment. And then again: is it really feasible to continue with Rail Baltica, with a strong European perspective?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u78	Madam President! A survey of the Tallinn tunnel is currently being conducted on the seabed and the first information has been obtained. In addition to this, the cities have also carried out studies at the end of both Tallinn and Helsinki, and we have also had discussions with the European Union on what funding models could be used for this. There is one possibility for Rail Baltica, and now, of course, we should also see that Rail Baltica is able to get off to a good start and move forward so that it can be continued. But the matter is pending and is proceeding through it all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u79	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. We shall now move on to the debate, and we shall do so by using seven speeches from the list of speakers, which is to say, after Mr Järvinen's speech, I will then allow a debate, if that is what you wish to do. First of all, Mr Räsänen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u80	Madam President! I do not support the aim of the citizens' initiative to legislate on euthanasia, because the correct answer to the suffering of a dying patient is a good hospice for which the means and instruments exist. The integrity of human life is a key value in society and health care. In addition, euthanasia would lead to a dangerous escalating surface where the desire to live of the elderly, the sick and the disabled would be met by death in an attempt to prevent the suicide of the healthy. The ethics of a doctor are based on respect for human life and relief of suffering, both of which must also be relied on in the treatment of dying patients. A lethal injection is part of a veterinary choice, not a human treatment. In an interview published on 7 February in the West Media, Karinakod’s doctor, Riitta Lahtinen, says: “We once had a couple here who expressed their support for euthanasia during a survey. She was a patient, and he sat next to her every day. At the end, her symptoms became more severe and she was sedated or sedated with drugs to help her sleep. He died peacefully. Afterward, the man came to me and told me that this is what they had meant by euthanasia. He said he didn't want his wife to be given a finishing shot like a dog." Participants in civil opinion inquiries may also have misconceptions about euthanasia, such as this Karinakoti couple. Euthanasia does not mean stripping off unnecessary treatments and switching to symptomatic treatment and adequate pain medication or palliative sedation, but it means a procedure under Dutch law in which a doctor actually kills his patient with a poison injection. And the farther away a person is from the treatment of a dying patient, the more he is researched in favor of euthanasia. According to a recent survey by the Medical Association, only 17% of doctors treating dying patients were in favour of euthanasia. Euthanasia is justified by two arguments: the suffering of an incurable patient and his autonomy. The ethics of health care and the choice of means of hospice treatment do not support either argument. Hospice therapy is more advanced than ever in human history. Even severe pains can be treated asymptomatic. The same opioids used to treat severe pain also effectively relieve shortness of breath, for example. And if other measures are not sufficient to relieve symptoms, the patient can be put to sleep with palliative sedation, for example, for a fixed period of time, for a night or two, and when rested, he may wake up again. Sedation is not euthanasia. Studies have shown that the life-time of patients who have been sedated does not differ without sedation from the life-time of those who have been treated. The term "right to die" is misleading. International human rights conventions recognise the right of man to life, not the right to death. No country in the world has guaranteed the patient a legal right to die, not even in Holland. There the doctor is legally entitled to avoid punishment if, under certain conditions, he kills his patients. The essence of the right to self-determination is that the patient has the right to refuse treatment but does not have the right to decide for himself what treatment he or she is being given. Why would euthanasia be the exception? Euthanasia is promoted by creating new terms or by using euphemisms such as "the aid of death", "assisted death" or "valued death". The citizens' initiative proposes legal euthanasia for 'good death'. What Is Good Death? When it comes to good death, it's actually about life. Life before death can be good or bad for the last seconds. But death itself is the limit we cannot measure. The defenders of Euthanasia often speak of the right to die with dignity. This wish is justified. We have to take it seriously. However, a dignified death should mean good palliative, symptomatic and hospice treatment. Killing a human being is not a valuable activity. In January, I attended a medical event in which I received a pin on this doctor’s role, which reads “The Defender of Life”. If a person were to be considered to have the right to decide his own death by another person, that would be an obligation for another to do the killing. The Finnish Medical Association is opposed to legalisation of euthanasia, as is the World Medical Association. The traditional Hippocrates oath says: "I will not give anyone lethal poison if I am asked to do so, nor will I advise you to make it." A breach of the principle of respect for human life would be serious for doctors. If the principle of destroying life were accepted as a tool for incurable diseases, the doctor could attitudeally begin to favor choices that do not contribute to the patient’s life. In fact, the citizens' initiative, which we are now dealing with, goes some way beyond the current Dutch law in presenting the doctor with an obligation to refer the patient asking for euthanasia to another doctor if he does not, according to his conviction, accept the killing of the patient. There has been a debate on this in the Netherlands, but Dutch doctors do not want this obligation. In the Netherlands, too, there has been a slip on the escalating surface, a deathbed in situations where the patient’s own will is uncertain. For these cases, a new concept has been created alongside euthanasia, 'the ending of life'. A person also has the right to change his view. How should a patient’s previous euthanasia urge be treated if, in an acute situation, he is no longer able to express his current will, such as an Alzheimer’s patient? When Finnish people over 80 years of age were interviewed, half of them were hoping for a recovery in the current situation, contrary to their previous will. Even in a state of sickness, the desire to live is often much stronger when death approaches than when we are healthy. Euthanasia must also be separated from treatment for symptoms that may result in shorter life. After all, in many situations a doctor has to weigh the benefits and disadvantages of medicines or treatment. Medication is never intended to kill a patient, even though it may even be associated with fatal side effects. There are misunderstandings about the strong drugs used in hospice, such as morphine. When properly used for palliative treatment, they may even prolong the days of life, as chronic pain wears the patient out. Euthanasia doctors do not use morphine for killing, but muscle paralyzing and cardiac arresters, and these substances are not used at all in hospice. Ultimately, the decision on euthanasia would be left to a doctor who would have to assess the suffering of the patient. What kind of suffering would be judged sufficient to trigger a decision on euthanasia? In fact, Dutch statistics show that the main reason for asking for euthanasia is not pain, but loneliness and fear of being dependent on the help of others. The patient’s death wish may include the question: Does anyone care about me if I am already completely unnecessary? I do not think that this kind of question should be answered by a death shot, but by human caring and high-quality hospice treatment. This citizens' initiative and euthanasia debate will provide a service to Finnish society if they lead to better hospice care. To ensure that, we would need a hospice law that was supported by 70% of those who participated in that medical survey. During my last Question Time, I asked Minister Rehula about this hospice law. He did not promise it at the time, and that is why I have made a bill about it, and I hope that there will be plenty of signatures from the representatives to get it moving. Mr President! Finally, this citizens' initiative is deeply concerned with the right to life guaranteed by the Constitution and also with criminal law. I therefore propose that the citizens' initiative be sent not only to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health but also to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u81	Madam President! In a country like Finland, human life is untouchable. The European Convention on Human Rights states immediately in Article 2 that no one must be killed intentionally. We respect life, we do not dare to discuss even the death penalty for those who have committed a serious crime in this Chamber. Now, however, we are talking about eliminating the weakest people. Should Killing Be Legalized? In prehistoric history, old and sick have been plunged down into ravines, poisoned and suppressed, even into a piece of fat. Long ago it was also normal for doctors to kill a patient. But this changed. Since the time of Hippocrates, doctors have refused the role of executioner. The conflict between healing and killing was understood. The doctors focused only on treating and improving to the best of their ability. This has enabled the development of modern medicine. 85 percent of Finnish doctors say that they would not even kill a patient if euthanasia were allowed. I don't think it's bad that doctors are so devoted to defending life. I prefer to go to a doctor I can definitely trust. The occasional abandonment of ethical principles by doctors has produced only tragic traces of blood in history. Sometimes the political pressure has removed the dignity of a political opponent. At times a disabled person or race has been considered to be a person of lesser value. Do we now want to make sick and old ones who have less value for life? Even now, the elderly are treated in part like an expense item. There are people in this country who are willing to sacrifice anything on the altar of economic success. Economic factors contribute to health care decisions. If euthanasia were allowed, it could not be an exception. We don't want any old people in a hospital bed or in a nursing home to face even a small obligation to die, do we? No one should have to fear that the treatment chain or family may want him to take a poison injection. However, this would necessarily be the case if euthanasia were allowed. In America, concern about being a burden is one of the underlying causes of more than 40 percent of these death - aid cases. Mr President! The question of pain is the most painful question in the euthanasia debate. Even now we have a person near death somewhere in the country who suffers severe pain. Who's responsible for that? Ladies and gentlemen, we are the ones who bear the responsibility. We have not secured sufficient resources for treating pain and suffering. It is a shame that citizens must take the initiative of murdering a suffering person before the country's decision-makers wake up to the need for good hospice treatment for everyone. Pain can be treated. Experts say that it is extremely difficult to see a situation in which pain cannot be greatly alleviated. There are effective painkillers, palliative radiotherapy, the destruction of pain pathways. Ultimately, the patient can be put to sleep. In this case, there will be no more pain than during anesthesia during surgery. From the point of view of pain management, we only have one sensible and comprehensive conclusion, and that is the development of hospice care. It is inhumane to consider the law of killing when good treatment is the solution. Mr President! When pain treatment is in order, euthanasia is motivated by suffering that cannot be treated. It's about psychosocial and existential pain. After all, the hope of death relief is based on the fact that a person feels that the meaning of life has disappeared with the limitations that have come to it. It's a fact that life when you're sick is uncomfortable. In such a situation, then, may one ask another to kill himself? Someone says it's a man's business. Is that right? No one claims that a person's suicide would not affect his loved ones. Yeah, euthanasia does, too. It affects a 10-year-old grandchild who follows his grandparents ’ decision. Five years later, in a teenage turmoil, he might wonder if he could give up too. In areas where death support is allowed, suicide mortality increases in the investigated population. It affects the child sitting next to the bed, who still 20 years from now wonders if he could have done something better. It's affecting your doctor. It's not a light thing to ask someone to kill a weak patient. Doctors who have studied euthanasia experience anxiety and say that they will remember the case for the rest of their life. It affects the grandma next door who's afraid of being a burden to her loved ones. Should he also kill himself? It affects the entire hospice system and health care and all the people in it. Some skilled staff start to avoid the industry because they do not want to face ethical conflicts. The mental balance of the nursing staff working in the sector is affected by the conflict between care and killing. Control to prevent abuse puts a strain on everyday life. Doctors may not have the courage to take adequate painkillers if there is a risk not only of the patient dying but also of an accusation of unreported euthanasia. The methods of treatment are changing. In the Netherlands, 8% of cancer patients end their lives in euthanasia, even if there are other options. Trust suffers. There are a lot of stories online about family abuse in death relief situations. Even if there are no abuses, it is clear that confidence in the medical profession has suffered. Successful hospice therapy requires trust between the patient, the family and the doctor. The adequacy of hospice funding is under threat, euthanasia when there is a more economical option. Mr President! Finally, the most euthanasia affects the person to whom it is done. Would he really want to spend the last few weeks of his life negotiating with a doctor about a poison shot? Would it be happier to focus on saying good-bye to family, friends, and life? Did we commit a crime against him when we offered him euthanasia at all as an alternative? Total self-determination is almost the same as anarchy, especially when it obliges society to do so. There are limits to the right of self-determination. The obligation of the person responsible for the treatment to participate in the killing process is certainly a matter beyond self-determination. Any person considering legalising euthanasia should also take into account the fact that anyone can end up as a victim of abuse. Misuses are a reality in the world. A single act of killing against the will of man is a valid argument against euthanasia. That is also what we are doing in many countries, for example, with criminals who suffer the death penalty. But what about when this happens often? In the Netherlands, 23% of euthanasia is committed without reporting. This is the assessment of a study funded by a respected subcontractor of the National Ministry of Health. In reality, the number may be larger, as people can sometimes be killed with sedation and heavy pain medication. This avoids a heavy monitoring procedure, and in these situations there is no guarantee that the patient himself or his family has been consulted. Euthanasia would establish a professorship in Finland that is allowed to kill, but at the same time it would not even be possible to provide for serious consequences for the misuse of this permit. If the punishment were to match the seriousness of the murder, no doctor would dare even make a legal euthanasia. Mr President! Doctors... [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeNiikko,10minutes recommendation applies to all representatives. You're already in good time, so I'm asking you to make up your mind. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a citizens' initiative on euthanasia, a good death. This citizens' initiative states that it is important, first and foremost, to ensure that municipalities and hospital districts are obliged to organise high-quality care and hospice care and are fully available throughout Finland. This has been expressed very strongly here, and hospice treatment has already been mentioned in these previous speeches. In Finland, hospice treatment is needed annually, according to my information, for about 15,000 people, I was told by Mrs Räsänen that it would be a little less, but in one of these size classes. Palliative treatment in Finland requires between 200,000 and 30,000 patients per year. Of course, hospice is not part of active death aid. Congressman Räsänen brought up the Act on hospice care. In fact, we have the Health Care Act of 2010, which states in Article 24 on medical care that the task of medical care is to prevent, cure and, thirdly, to alleviate the suffering. The detailed explanatory memorandum to Article 24 of the Health Care Act further states: "Past relief should be taken into account in all stages of disease Hospice treatment means treatment and support in the last stages of the disease before and after death. Hospice treatment is central to the relief of human symptoms and suffering. Treatment is based on the patient’s progressive incurable disease, for which no predictive treatment is available or has refused, and the remaining life span is estimated to be short. Hospice treatment is not dependent on the patient’s diagnosis. The responsibility for the overall care of the patient lies with basic health care, which, if necessary, agrees with the responsibility for a specific disease, such as cancer treatment, for special medical care." This is therefore stated in the detailed explanatory memorandum to Section 24 of the Health Care Act. If this needs to be tightened up and clarified, I am prepared to do so myself. In my opinion, good hospice treatment is the primary thing we need to be developing and doing. I personally interpret this as having a law that obliges and gives the right to hospice, but if it is necessary to tighten it up, I am prepared to do so myself. The second issue that needs to be raised here is, of course, sufficient resources, namely that the requirements of the law can be met, and I understand that, at least in some cases, it has been a case of lack of resources or regionalisation. I have been pleased to note that these places have been added in the capital region, including Lahti and many other places, and this is what needs to be done. The authors of the initiative suggest that the Euthanasia Act is needed to add an alternative to the rest of life to those of our fellow citizens who do not receive adequate relief from their intolerable suffering, even from good palliative care. If other treatments are not sufficient to alleviate the suffering of a dying person, the initiators suggest that euthanasia in Finland would be allowed under the strict 11 different criteria. In my opinion, these criteria are so good that I thought they would be included in the Minutes: The patient has intolerable physical and/or mental symptoms, pain and suffering, which cannot be significantly alleviated by good hospice or palliative therapy and medical means. The patient suffers from incurable fatal disease, and death will occur in the near future without euthanasia. The patient’s condition must be medically hopeless, without any hope of healing. The patient is legal, adult and cognitively competitive. The doctor has informed the patient about this situation, the prognosis and the available treatment options. The patient himself has made a voluntary, deliberate and repeated request for euthanasia and the decision has not been made as a result of external pressure. The doctor has discussed this euthanasia request with the patient several times and is convinced that the patient’s request is of a lasting nature. The doctor and the patient both agree that there are no other meaningful alternatives to the patient’s condition. The doctor is convinced that the patient is not suffering from a psychiatric illness that weakens his judgment. Clinical depression should always be treated before any decision on euthanasia is made. The doctor has consulted at least one impartial doctor who must also meet and evaluate the patient’s condition personally. The doctor will perform the euthanasia properly, be present until the patient’s death and then be required to report the euthanasia to a monitoring body established for that purpose, to which he must provide detailed information on the reasons for the euthanasia decision, the implementation of euthanasia and any other event information in more specific ways specified by law. And lastly: there should be no obligation for doctors or medical staff to participate in euthanasia. If a doctor wishes to refuse euthanasia, he should refer the patient to a doctor who is ready to do so when the criteria are met. These requirements are very strict, and I think they are very well-founded. In principle, I personally welcome the fact that we in Finland could have euthanasia in the future. I hope that the parliamentary committee will deal with this in a comprehensive, thorough and good committee and will consider all the different aspects of the matter. This initiative has been signed by a large number of Finnish people and many of them also those who would like this for themselves. Personally, I have thought that if I were in such a situation and these criteria were met, I myself would be prepared to have my death as easy and as good as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u87	Madam President! To make a good death possible is a matter for me that is very close and important to me. For a small group of people, euthanasia would be part of it. Death, hospice and euthanasia are matters of which the majority of people do not have personal experience, but the majority have to form an opinion based on what is known as their own conscience or search for information on the subject. I myself participate in this debate not only as a Member of Parliament but also as a nurse specialising in the elderly, who has been able to do hospice work in very different working environments in Finland, Germany and Sweden. In this context, I would also like to thank University Lecturer Päivi Kankku from the University of Eastern Finland and Clinical Nursing Specialist Anne Vaajoke from Kuopio University Hospital for their great help in collecting researched information on euthanasia and hospice and nursing needs. This subject is so important that, for my part, I feel that, in order to form my own opinion, I wanted to know what is known about this subject through academic studies. The citizens' initiative states that 'the act of euthanasia is needed to add an alternative to the rest of life to those of our fellow citizens who do not receive adequate relief from their intolerable suffering, even from good palliative care'. It is not therefore an objective to replace existing forms of treatment, but rather to seek new help for those who are not adequately assisted by existing methods. It is important to note that, regardless of what we decide on this initiative, we must also develop existing treatments. The citizens' initiative also states that it is important not only to legislate but also to ensure that municipalities and/or hospital districts are obliged to organise adequats and high-quality palliative care and hospice care and that they are available comprehensively throughout Finland. The euthanasia applied for in the initiative should only apply to a very limited group of Finns. As a criterion for euthanasia, it is stated, among other things, that "the patient has intolerable physical and/or mental symptoms, pains and suffering, which cannot be significantly alleviated by good hospice or palliative care and medical means." As medicine and pain relief develop, this group will be limited, but for those who do not benefit from the current treatment, euthanasia is a humane solution. The criteria for the citizens' initiative also state: "The patient suffers from an incurable fatal disease, and death will occur in the near future without euthanasia. The patient's condition must be medically hopeless, without any hope of healing." The patient should also be "legally viable, adult and cognitively competitive". It is important that we pay attention to the right of people to quality and adequate care at different stages of life. As a nurse in hospice situations, I have felt very inadequate when I have not been able to relieve the pain or anxiety of a sick person, but I have also experienced successful hospice treatment. I believe that, through the debate brought about by this initiative, we can give healthcare professionals better tools to take care of those whose suffering is not being adequately treated at the moment. Chronic pain is a very common problem of the type of people's disease as a symptom, but the resources and organisation of its treatment are not sufficient at the current level and are not balanced at regional level. The number of doctors who are experienced and trained in pain treatment is low in relation to the needs of the future. Improving the prevention and treatment of chronic pain can also significantly reduce premature retirement, disability and, in particular, personal suffering. I believe that in the longer term, the development of pain management will also reduce the cost structure of health care. Madam President! We have taken a legislative initiative in the central parliamentary group to add hospice care and palliative care to the visible health care law. Good palliative care and hospice care throughout the country is not yet available today. The bill of the central parliamentary group aims to ensure that municipalities, together with hospital districts, are required by law to ensure that palliative or symptomatic care and hospice care are available regardless of the patient’s place of residence or other circumstances. In addition to making the necessary legislative changes to ensure access to hospice and palliative care, we must also ensure that the training of medical personnel takes into account adequate levels of pain management, palliative care and hospice care. I believe that these important areas of competence should be one of the basics of education, not just specialisation studies. In this way, we can ensure that nursing staff already have the skills to care for and guide them to the right care at the level of basic care. Appropriate treatment of patients with chronic pain begins in primary health care. The primary health care system must have instructed and functioning channels for specialised medical consultations. The appropriate question is: how well do the education programmes and curricula of health students and medical students show and, above all, take place, first of all, pain treatment — this includes acute pain, chronic pain, cancer pain and pain in different patient groups — and second, palliative treatment and thirdly, hospice treatment? I think all of the above are part of specialization studies, both by doctors and nurses. The National Action Plan for Chronic and Cancer Pain for 2016-2020 describes how little such expertise we have. I believe that healthcare professionals would be much better equipped to carry out quality hospice care, among other things, if these substances were central to basic studies and training. Madam President! We must first have the foundations in order before we go into legislation on the subject. By the foundations, I mean the knowledge, skills and attitudes of healthcare professionals in the care of dying people and the resources provided and also required by society to implement quality hospice care. In order to start building these foundations, the central parliamentary group has therefore taken a legislative initiative to increase hospice care and palliative care in the health care law. In this bill we also propose to amend section 25 of the Health Care Act, which defines the content of home nursing. With that change, someone in hospice care could die in their own home in a familiar environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u88	Mr President! Less than two weeks ago, Alma Media conducted a survey on this euthanasia initiative. I replied at the time that I would take the euthanasia initiative with 'yes' reservations. Since then, I have received a lot of written and other material, and I would answer at the moment if the Aamulehti journalist called that 'not with reservations'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u91	Madam President! We're talking about legalizing the killing of another human being. Not a small matter, not a matter to be decided at the market. We are creating a culture of death in Finland. It shouldn't be done. We're using an Orwellian euphemism. First there was the mercy killing, then the mercy death, now a good death.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u94	Mr President! It is clear that this citizens' initiative on euthanasia, good death, has brought us to the bottom. Rarely in this Chamber are such extreme, profound and fundamental issues — life, death, human rights, love of neighbor — discussed as today, and that is certainly a good thing. Although I know that we are very divided in this House on the initiative that has been taken, I am sure that everyone involved in this initiative and in the matter we are discussing today has a lot of feelings, their own values, including background information, and many organisations and people have taken care of it — thanks for all the feedback — but also, of course, their own experiences. Maybe there's a few more things that have affected my mind than the others. One of them is that I have had the questionable joy of following the very painful and heavy death of my two neighbors. Another factor affecting my own thoughts is the opinion of the Terhokoti leader on this issue of euthanasia and good death. But it is not my intention to talk about them now, because my faith and experience are that there is a very strong consensus in this Chamber that we all want to improve hospice care and the pain relief and relief of the symptoms of the end-time illness in general. This is also demonstrated by the wide-ranging debate that has taken place here today. Although we would like to say that everyone in Finland is entitled to hospice and good rest periods, unfortunately this is not the case, and that means that the old health care law on this issue is not enough. We have a lot of different problems. The general problem is equal access to hospice care across Finland. The Medical Association has estimated that only about half of the 19 hospital districts and 18 large cities have a plan or institutional hospice guidelines despite the fact that there were opportunities to make better progress. This is the worst situation in Eastern and Northern Finland, where professional hospice care is the least available, and of course it is not acceptable from the perspective of the Finns that people are in an unequal position. But there are other problems. There are no criteria for financing hospice facilities, the criteria for agreeing commitments. According to the Medical Association, there are too few hospice sites in Finland and the transition from curative treatment to symptomatic treatment is delayed. According to it, there is also a wide variety of skills shortages among staff, and education is very different. Also, according to the Medical Association, it is not the courage to give up normal treatment, nor is it the ability to initiate hospice therapy in good time. With regard to these problems, I am sincerely pleased that several parliamentary groups, as well as the Greens, have taken a legislative initiative to legislate on hospice care. I hope that all the parliamentary groups and the chairmen of the parliamentary groups will see to it that, as far as possible, the whole Chamber, all 200 of us, will sign these legislative initiatives in order to stabilise and legislate on hospice care so that we can process hospice care in this Chamber and have the result of a hospice care law that will ensure adequate hospice care for all Finns. It could define, among other things, the criteria for hospice care, access to hospice care, the subjective right of citizens to hospice care and the level of education of persons working in hospice care. I sincerely hope that all the groups in this House will take this issue on board when there is such broad support for this initiative, and I hope that we can combine these initiatives and bring forward a coherent proposal for this at least this period. That would be a good thank you to these citizens' initiatives as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, as promised earlier by the President to the representatives: if there is any cause for a small debate, it is now happening. I would ask those of you who want an answer, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u99	Mr President! Mr Järvinen's proposal was very welcome that we need to develop hospice care, its availability, its quality and the training of its staff. This is an alternative to the citizens' initiative in euthanasia. This is human, it is acceptable and it is the right solution to improve the quality of life for the elderly and the suffering. Mr President! A secular person is afraid of a situation where others are being cared for. Man is afraid of a situation in which death comes. They want to control death. Is life threateningly ill able to make informed decisions, especially when the opinions around it affect the decision? In my opinion, assisted death is a euphemism for the planned killing of a patient. Murder, murder, violation of the Fifth Commandment. Mr President! I fear that this euthanasia will lead to the sloping surface that has been discussed today, in the case of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u100	Mr President! Euthanasia is a serious matter. Those who support it should note that about two thirds of us die of terminally fatal illness in Finland. That can't be a reason. Nor is there a short life expectancy for euthanasia. In Belgium, 15% of euthanasia patients would not have died immediately in the near future. Tolerable pain, suffering, we can treat pain treatment by training, and many times the patient’s own will may also be an obstacle to quality pain treatment. They don't want to be drugged. And a voluntary, fully understood request for euthanasia, which is one of the grounds for this — the pain of being burdened by the often more aided suicide in the United States. We don't want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u101	Mr President! Of course, the concern of the citizens' initiative as to whether a humane and dignified death is guaranteed for everyone is justified. I know that even pain treatment is still neglected or unheard of, or it is often the case that pain, for example, of a person with a memory disorder, is not even recognised. I have recently come across the fact that in a service house where elderly hospice patients are treated, there may not even be a pain pump or skilled staff. But euthanasia is not the answer; we therefore need better hospice treatment. Of course, we have good examples of high-quality hospice facilities, but there is also too much unnecessary pain and suffering that could be removed by professional treatment and thus guaranteed human and valuable death. We therefore need a law on hospice care, and the drawing up of this law would now be a priority. I now have the feeling that if all the parties are in favour of this cause,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u102	Mr President! I have been somewhat confused about this debate and its emphasis on the issue of hospice care. This initiative, which the citizens have left us, does require better hospice treatment, but that is not the point. That is not the big, serious question we should be discussing here. That is not the question on which we may disagree and where we are at its difficult edge, and that is why I would also urge fellow Members to consider whether the debate on hospice treatment is a debate when we should be discussing euthanasia, in fact avoiding responsibility, at least in part. We are dealing with a citizens' initiative, which is very specific in substance, and it would be desirable to stick to the issues that the citizens have brought to our attention and, if there are other considerations, at least separate them from the argument against and on behalf of this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u103	Mr President! Mr Kontula is absolutely right. Hospice and pain relief and their development have nothing to do with the issue that should be discussed here today. It is true that there is a fundamental difference between palliative sedation and euthanasia, and that is precisely the purpose of action. The purpose of medical treatment is always to maintain life; in euthanasia, the purpose of action is to end life. Following the last steps of a sick person is more suffering for the loved ones than for the leaver. Even if the leaver is not present or conscious, he may be painless with good treatment for his last days. I would now like these committees in their reports and perhaps those in favour of euthanasia to take a position in the Chamber on the question of which professional representatives should become euthanasia practitioners and on what grounds it should be a doctor, because unlike hospice treatment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u104	Mr President! Contrary to what has been said in a number of speeches, I believe that euthanasia and hospice and palliative care are linked. Euthanasia does not seem to me to be a valuable decision-making situation for human life. Much more valuable is the provision of adequate palliative care and appropriate hospice care from trained personnel. This is why the central parliamentary group has taken the initiative to amend the Health Care Act to make it the responsibility of the municipality and the hospital district to organise good palliative care and hospice care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u105	Mr President! It has been wonderful to hear the consensus here that we need to develop good hospice and palliative care. It is quite clear that the situation is currently not equal across the country. But just as Mr Kontula said, this citizens' initiative is about euthanasia, and yet it is different from good hospice and good palliative care, which this initiative calls for, but it is hoped that after that, if this does not help, it would also be possible, with the strict criteria set out here, to have a dignified death and euthanasia in Finland as well. I think that this debate, although difficult, is important. This initiative certainly requires a good reading, and it may be that we are not united in the outcome,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u106	Mr President! In 2011, when I came to Parliament from the centre of nursing, one of the points was the idea that we absolutely need a hospice law in Finland. All in all, these measures and measures have been taken enormously here in Parliament, but this is the first time that we have properly discussed the fact that we really need a hospice law, and it is good that the euthanasia citizens' initiative was brought here for our consideration. We also lack guidance on child hospice care. On both these issues, I have made an initiative for action, and it contains exactly the same things that have already been listed here: hospice treatment as subjective law, the right of a person to choose where he wishes to receive hospice care, and also the right of staff and staff to receive training where necessary. Hospice care is important to everyone, and we must also guarantee the right to it in Finland, so I believe that this kind of hospice law can improve this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u107	Mr President! We are in the midst of a very serious debate on values, and I wish I could even say that perhaps one of the best aspects of this Euthanasia citizens' initiative is that it also forces Parliament to discuss this difficult issue. It is great that we are very much in agreement here on the development of different forms of treatment, and I am sure that this is where a serious message is really being sent to responsible operators, that both on the resource side and on the legislative side, progress will be made with these forms of treatment. But then this more difficult question as to whether a person can choose the moment when this life will pass on to eternity. As this initiative requires on the basis of very precise criteria, I personally believe that I am prepared to support this, but I understand the difficulties, for example, with regard to this limitation. I hope that this initiative will be dealt with in committee with a great deal of determination, and then we will have a thorough debate here in the big room.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u108	Mr President! The law on patient access to hospice has been raised in this debate and I absolutely support Mrs Räsänen's bill on this and I hope that as many people as possible will sign it. The development of hospice care, the development of pain relief and the development of staff training are all the things we need to do at the moment. However, it is very sad that this euthanasia-citizen initiative has been brought here to Parliament, and it is quite symptomatic that, although we all speak here with great heart now in favour of hospice care, yesterday Karinakoti — one of the four services that provide hospice in Finland — has begun negotiations. It tells us that this legislation is indeed in a hurry. Karinakoti is one of these hospice homes, where some 15 to 17 people are currently employed, about 20 volunteers. Indeed, at the moment in Finland, these hospice units are struggling with money for it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u109	Mr President! I think it is very important that we talk about hospice treatment. Indeed, there is a clear consensus in this Chamber at the moment that hospice care should be improved and developed and made available throughout the country, but I do not believe that hospice treatment and euthanasia are mutually exclusive or mutually exclusive. What if a good hospice does not guarantee a painless and peaceful departure, if no attitude toward a dying person feels good any more, if there is a probable death to come by suffocating in the face of a severe and incurable illness, or if fear and fear fill the last moments of life? Is it a valuable and human life?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u110	Mr President! The debate shows that this issue of euthanasia is really difficult in human terms, and a great deal of fanaticism should be avoided, as fortunately has been the case here in general. The great thing is that there is a consensus that this hospice issue should be put in the best possible shape in the whole country. There is a great deal of medical potential for this, and for example, the experiences in Helsinki at Suursuo Hospital are good. In my opinion, the strengthening of hospice care is essentially relevant to this matter being discussed, as Mr Keränen said. As far as euthanasia is concerned, I think that we should listen seriously to the opinions of doctors who treat patients who are dying, and that is probably what will happen in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u111	Mr President! I would like to say that these citizens' initiatives have come and we must also deal with this euthanasia law. But for me this is quite clear. I will never accept euthanasia. I am pleased to hear that everyone would be in favour of developing hospice care. Hospice care is available in many small health centers, not so widely, of course, but the family can stay there. Then there is a great deal of lack of education in the health sector that there is no such education, how hospice care is provided. That everything has to be developed. Hospice is an individual, every dying person is an individual case. Of course, those who provide that hospice should give such a safe and peaceful death to the loved one and give it to mental and spiritual nourishment. We know that
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u112	Mr President! We are indeed dealing with a serious ethical and moral issue. This is something that many people talk about and worry about when it comes to personal fate, and then many people have seen the end of their families too. Many things cruise in the mind that things could be better done at that last moment. I myself am one of those who are in favour of bringing this hospice law to Finland at last. I have spoken about this before, and our group has taken an initiative to get it right now. Likewise, adequate pain relief and everything that can be done to eliminate pain and pain in the last moments is of course of great importance. When this euthanasia is spoken of, in a way, the opposite is the fact that everyone respects life and wants to protect it, but then on the other side it is the question of how much of an individual’s own will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u113	Mr President! This euthanasia initiative is a serious matter. Euthanasia is a serious matter and a difficult issue to consider, and that is also a matter that is not party politics, but one that seems to have a wide range of positions on this issue. The end of life, death, is something that touches each one of us strongly in advance, even emotional and fear - inspiring, especially if and when pain is involved many times. The great thing about this debate is that there are many initiatives here that are all in favour of putting hospice and palliative care in order, putting it in order, in the whole country, that it is available to everyone. I believe that this should now be put together and put this matter in order within the framework of this parliamentary term. After all, the majority of doctors are against euthanasia, and the majority of hospice doctors are even more strongly in this position. Personally, I cannot accept euthanasia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u114	Mr. Speaker! I am pleased that there seems to be a very large consensus in this Chamber that we need to improve legislation on hospice care and make it an equal opportunity for all those in need. I hope that we will now take as a common challenge the fact that this legislative change will still take place during this parliamentary term. A lot of hospice care has been developed, but according to a survey carried out a few years ago, only around 3,000 Finns were in hospice facilities every year when the need was about 12,000 a year. So quite a lot remains to be done to improve the situation. And I would like to remind those who have spoken here about these difficult late symptoms: we also have the possibility of palliative sedation in hospice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u115	Mr President! I am delighted to welcome this debate to improve hospice care, and I would like to remind you that Mrs Juvonen brought an important addition to this: hospice care for children. This initiative does not concern children, but adult adults. Indeed, we seem to have reached agreement on hospice treatment, and now we are focusing on what we think about euthanasia. I myself am a strong supporter of self-determination. I do not see this as a question of killing another person, I see this more as a matter of self-determination, and that is why I do not use the word'murder'. I watched Esko Seppänen play at Studio A. He's one of the signatories, and he just appealed to us not to talk about murder. He said that it is never possible to treat all the pain. There was a good debate, and I am now looking forward to the opinions of the committee and the committees. I myself am on the Constitutional Committee. Let us see what is being said here in the committees, but I welcome this and see this as a question of self-determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u116	Mr President! Indeed, euthanasia is not the opposite of hospice and palliative care, as this bill also states. There is talk of both, but I would like to emphasise the view that I expressed in my speech and that there is widespread talk that, in a very unequal situation, we have people in different parts of Finland with regard to hospice and pain treatment. For us to be able to talk about euthanasia too, if euthanasia is to be part of hospice, we must have proper hospice treatment. That is why the central parliamentary group has not wanted a separate hospice law, because we are also talking about the dismantling of standards and a separate law would bring us more laws, but we want to amend the existing health care law in relation to Articles 24 and 25,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u117	Mr President! Too often, the debate on euthanasia stumbles at the fact that it is not possible to separate what euthanasia really means and wants and what it does not mean and does not want. The incorrect comparison of euthanasia with hospice treatment, or the totally inappropriate speculation that euthanasia could become a way of caring for the elderly and the disabled, saving society's money, are unfortunate examples of how often attempts are being made to confuse the debate. It is obvious that a person seeking euthanasia should be offered the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the traditional treatments available, such as hospice. I agree that a separate law on hospice care is needed, but not in place of euthanasia, but alongside it, for those who want better palliative care. President! Let's be honest. Today, some terminally ill persons choose suicide as the solution to their hopeless situation. It is often done in a way or under circumstances that remain traumatic to the survivors, rescue and care staff or to those completely outside who will unwittingly become involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u118	Mr President! The Euthanasia initiative has placed Parliament on an exceptionally demanding ethical and moral agenda, and this debate reflects the in-depth approach that Parliament is able to take in this debate. This is valuable. In Finnish culture, in a little longer history, death is seen on the one hand as redemption, on the other hand as an enemy. When I go to the cemeteries, the older gravestones still say "rest in peace," and we may put on Facebook when someone I know is dead, that "Rest in peace - rest in peace". Death is redemption. That's what we think. But on the other hand, and especially in medicine, it is emphasized that death is the enemy, and if the patient in treatment dies, it is the attitude and way of saying that "the patient was lost", for example, in resuscitation. Thus, these two aspects of death are always present, and we should be able to make wise, patient-friendly decisions here. I personally think that this initiative is very important precisely in that hospice treatment
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u119	Mr President! I do not understand the sadness of this citizens' initiative as such. A key element of its preparation has been the presence of a person who has quite enough personal experience, as was pointed out by Mr Merik. And the citizens' initiative does not have to be a complete legal text, but I believe that this initiative also shows how it has been thought about and that it has been possible to make it so concise and clearly worded with clear limits. These 11 paragraphs, in terms of limits, say yes to what is at stake and what is being pursued. I also think it is extremely valuable that it leaves freedom to doctors and medical staff: there are no obligations towards them to participate in euthanasia. Yes, the fact is that these matters can be handled officially or informally, in Finland or abroad, or, if you want a result, either on your own or with the help of someone other than the authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u120	Mr President! In this initiative, we are at the root of the questions: it is a matter of life and death. It is therefore important that this issue is also discussed seriously. It is a question of whether another person’s life can be determined. The Constitution deals with fundamental rights, and one of the most important fundamental rights is the right to life. That's not a very small thing. I believe that our task in this house is to protect life and to safeguard the conditions for a good life, and that includes the fact that people have the best possible access to hospice and hospice care. If this bill were adopted, then the danger — which is already visible in the Netherlands — is that this so-called salami theory will come true. In other words, the door is opened on the slopes, and although the border is apparently precisely defined, it is gradually progressing and it is difficult to define the border.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u121	Mr President! I believe that proper hospice treatment is a matter of course and should be developed throughout Finland. In fact, I think that it is one of the measures of a civilised state to deal with it. But my own civilian profession is a veterinarian, and I have been put in a situation thousands of times where, for animal welfare reasons, an animal has since had to stop. It may be incorrect and not necessarily reasonable to compare humans and animals with one another, but, inevitably, some people may be faced with suffering only in spite of good hospice treatment. Then I myself believe that legislation should also examine the possibility that, in cases where people are well documented by professionals and have their own will, this measure can also be considered so that they do not have to go abroad for help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u122	Mr President! Mr Estilä's speech was quite halting when, as a veterinarian, he raised these experiences of killing animals. And I think this is precisely the big difference between human medicine and veterinary medicine: a sick dog or a sick horse can, in a hopeless case, be stopped with a poison injection, but it is not part of human treatment. That is why I do not think we should go down this road. The position of animals and humans in this medicine must be kept separate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u123	Mr President! I agree with the estimates which state that the best aspect of this citizens' initiative has been that it has forced Parliament to deal with this theme, and also that on such a large front, implemented in various ways, we think that hospice is a genuine right for all as part of a good life and its end. I think it is very important to take into account the physical, mental, mental and spiritual nature of a person, such as the role of hospital soul care, regardless of religion. I would like to say that, in this centre initiative, we have incorporated this health care law into it because we see that it should be a normal part of health care, a part of everyday, albeit rather dramatic, part of care that belongs to everyone, including as a home-based service in the future. I would like to say that, for my part, I have reservations about this rather valuable and well-executed citizens' initiative in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u124	I also understood that Mr Nikon had asked to speak on behalf of Mr Eestilä. Now, let's go like this. First of all, Mr. Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u125	Mr President! I understand, of course, that this subject is extremely difficult to discuss, and I have already said in my own speech that there is no comparison between humans and animals, and we must respect life and this code of ethics, which it contains, and we must talk about it discreetly. Personally, I do not know what is right or wrong, but the purpose of my speech was that all of you in this Chamber must not have faced situations where the outcome is certain because of your own civil profession. The animal, who apparently knows the pain reasonably well, as well as man, has little choice but that last departure, and if it is helped, then it is a question of compliance with the animal welfare law. In my opinion, this kind of speech is about proper in this situation, because I respect life and man but when it comes to a situation in which man suffers enormously and the outcome is clear, then we must at least consider whether legislation on this sort of situation can then
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u126	Mr President! The representative, Eestilä, brought this up very well, to the imagination of what it is to end life, even though it was an animal. But how much more valuable a person’s life is than an animal if we look at this from an ethical and social point of view. Euthanasia is not needed to guarantee a dignified death. Patients can be guaranteed a good death with expert hospice treatment — that is what we agree here today, thank you for it — in which pain and suffering are alleviated by medication and mental and also spiritual support. Euthanasia is the exact opposite of the idea of treating a dying patient as well as possible. If we want the most skilled, balanced and reliable staff in hospice care, we should not allow euthanasia. Allowing Euthanasia could also threaten the financial resources of hospice care. It's just a fact. This can happen regardless of what we have spoken today. Is there a good hospice in Holland? This is what we have been talking about today. We see what is the fruit of the tree. Let's take a look at the fruit of the tree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u127	Mr President! One day I will die, but before that I will live, and I will live that life, appreciating my own freedom to decide how I live my life. As far as I am concerned, this citizens' initiative on euthanasia is largely a question of its own will to decide its last moments, and I therefore believe that the appreciation of life raised by Mr Eestilä was an important aspect of this debate as well. Death scares you, and death is always personal. Unfortunately, I myself have personal experience in supporting euthanasia. I've seen how ugly and exploitative death can be. It is a pity for those who take the initiative if these things are being stigmatised here by murder or otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u128	Mr President! I have experience of bringing both my parents across the border. Both of my parents, my elderly parents, who, of course, died at different times, received pain relief, and my sister and I were escorting. For days we sat in that hospice situation with them, and I thought the death of both of them was beautiful. Of course, as many people in this Chamber have said, I would like this palliative treatment and hospice and adequate pain relief to be provided by everyone. I too have to say that I have reservations about this issue of euthanasia because, unfortunately, in Holland and Belgium, for example, euthanasia has drifted into areas where I cannot understand that euthanasia is the right solution: mental health problems, memory-impaired elderly people, even underage children. Somehow I cannot understand that this is the purpose of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u129	Mr President! This is Minister Soini and representatives of Gustafsson, Räsänen and Mr Tölli last made excellent speeches, to which I warmly agree. So I do not support the adoption of this initiative or the implementation of euthanasia in Finland. To a large extent, I feel that human life is sacred and that respect for it must be the basis of legislation and society. This proposal, then, has these practical problems here at all times. However, one person makes a decision to end another person’s life, and I do not see any justification for it. I am very much in agreement with what has been said here about the development of hospice care, and I was very hasty about investing in this. Then I believe that the pain relief today — and I have come close to seeing it — has progressed to a great extent and can be further improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u130	Mr President! The issue of Euthanasia is a difficult one, but it is good that there is a debate in Parliament not only about the right to a good life but also about a good death. For me, the question of euthanasia became more concrete when I discussed it with my late Tampere partner, Mikko Järve. Mikko suffered from pulmonary fibrosis, where the lungs gradually harden and stop taking oxygen. The result is slow suffocation. Mikko wanted euthanasia, and he also ran it politically. Since then, he died at the University Hospital in Tampere before he could travel to the clinic. Switzerland to have a good death. I am in favour of making euthanasia possible through legislation and I am in favour of the citizens' initiative now under discussion. It is a difficult question, but for me it is a question of humanity and mercy for people who have faced a disease with a certain death at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u131	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, there are really good and respectable arguments for euthanasia, but I am not in a position to accept it myself, because people must have an absolute right to life. If anything compromises this absolute right, it cannot be accepted. A person must not have the alternative idea that I wish for euthanasia that I would not be burdened with others, that I should not be burdened with others. If you ever have in your mind and as an alternative to euthanasia, then it must not go forward. That is why I cannot accept this, because the right to life can suffer from this. Let's do the pain relief properly. Finally, I know a number of people who have made contact, who wish they could get out, but we have to look for other options for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u132	Ladies and gentlemen! With the exception of perhaps one of the two representatives, everyone has taken the floor at least once. I will give you a few more speeches, and then my proposal is to move on to the list of speakers. If there is still a special need to say, then at the time of the next speech, I would ask you to stand up. Then let's cut this debatable part.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u133	Mr President! The issue of euthanasia is one of the greatest issues of humanity and morality. As Mr Marin has already said, surely we all have death. None of us can escape that. Instead, the debate on the last moments that are extremely painful is rather absurd in this Chamber, because it is absolutely guaranteed that there will not be a single representative in Parliament who would be in any way in favour of such suffering. In practice, however, treatment practices should be such that people get pain relief as they need to, not by looking at the clock. But now that we are talking about the production of death, can we, in a society where the fundamental pillars and values are built from baby to baby, take care of life?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u134	Mr President! I have had the privilege of being present several times in the precious moment when a person moves across the border. I would say that in this country more appreciation of life and good hospice care for all those who need it all over Finland. The active killing of another person must not be opened up. It's a sloping surface, it's already been our experience and elsewhere. When this initiative came, I carefully read every single point, and I can say that when you read it carefully, none of these arguments will be sustainable, starting with the fact that if other treatment is not enough to relieve pain and suffering, we have the means to relieve pain and suffering. The statutory right of health care staff to refuse to end life on the basis of ethical or religious beliefs was my citizens' initiative, also in view of the possibility of euthanasia. This Parliament rejected it, but now we are in the future of the staff,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u135	Mr President! This is a serious issue that I myself have given a great deal of thought to myself. Jussi Aurén of Pori writes in the People of Satakunta that we will open a door that will be difficult to close later. This is a question that forces Members of Parliament to get a good look at the matter and the experts. It's important. The Finnish Medical Association is opposed to legalisation of euthanasia. The medical union’s answer was clear: no, first the hospice. The main problems with hospice care are: the transition from improving treatment to symptomatic treatment is delayed, there are too few hospice sites and there is a lack of skills. Let's get this sorted out first, and then we'll talk about something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u136	Mr President! There have been several repetitions here of this slanting surface theory. I understand that there is concern in the civil debate that, if that is the case, we are now in the Chamber where the surfaces on which we are moving are decided. There are no other halls where some other laws are enacted. There is only this hall where the laws of this country are laid down, and it is largely up to us what kind of slopes we accept here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u139	Following Mr Kontula's speech, I give the floor to Mr Heikkinen, Mr Tanus and Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u140	Mr President! I would like to reiterate this idea that hospice treatment, palliative treatment and euthanasia are part of the same debate. There is a very unanimous view in this Chamber that we want to develop hospice care. Desire alone is not enough. In order for us to be able to ensure good hospice care in Finland on an equal basis, attention must be paid to the training of nursing staff. This is going to be a small part of this debate. We can by law demand different things, but if the end result is that we do not have the means for staff to carry out training for quality hospice care, then it will not be. Congressman Juvonen, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u141	Mr President! This sloping surface has indeed been experienced in Europe. It's true. Although precise regulations were put in place, precise boundaries as to when euthanasia is being used, the situation is quite different. This incline surface has also been experienced in Finland. It's only been 40 years since the killing of a small person in the womb became legal. It was then discussed that the staff of conviction, doctors and nurses alike, should be taken into account in this matter, but unfortunately it was not put into law at the time, it remained at the level of the debate. But who would have believed that in Finland, in Western democracy, in a few decades it will become a way of working, and even so that there will not even be a study of this key profession in Finland, an area which is still very dominated by women, and even women's organisations will not see this, what is the situation, how has it changed upside down? We have a sloping surface to see in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u142	Mr President! I like Mr Kontula's analysis very much, but sometimes it's a little annoyingly orthodox. In this euthanasia debate, I think it is absolutely necessary to discuss this hospice treatment and getting it into law. I regard this debate as almost a historic achievement that there is such a broad consensus on this issue, because I see, as Professor Puska did, that the large-scale implementation of this hospice law is a prerequisite if some people now believe that euthanasia is necessary. I don't see it myself with this information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u143	Mr President! I too am concerned about the impact of allowing euthanasia on the tolerance of old age, disability and severe illness in our society. In Belgium, for example, the desire for euthanasia for the residents of nursing homes and those over 80 years of age is increasing. One reason for hope is the pain of being a burden — the pain of being a burden. Has euthanasia then become almost an act of national duty when the attitudes, laws and standards of the surrounding society affect individual choices? Is that what we want in Finland too? If we were allowed euthanasia, it could become a fashion phenomenon. If I were healthy, it would be promised that I, too, would want to die of mercy if I became seriously ill, but then, when seriously ill, which actually leads to death, there could be fear of death and want to live again. But is it the pressure of society and friends to keep your promise that you have wanted this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u144	Mr President! We're really at the bottom of it today. Thank you, of course, to those who have taken the initiative for us to be able to discuss this matter here in the Chamber. I hope that the StV will really carefully examine and listen, especially to our doctors, who have given their own opinions on this. I see that we, as a committee, have always applied for an example in Sweden, but it should now be applied for in the Netherlands and see what kind of legislation there is and how it has gone and assess that we are not really on that incline surface. I personally am not very happy to support this at the moment; perhaps I have turned to that side more. This debate is also good with regard to this hospice. That they've moved on with this. I hope that, along with this, we will also have good legislation on hospice care. I share these thanks to Mr Juvonen, who also raised this issue of hospice care during the previous period and has been very concerned about it. That's human life and human death.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u145	In this debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Wall, Juvone and Essayah, and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u146	Mr President! I believe that euthanasia must also be discussed in the context of the debate on hospice care. Because when I myself have spoken to the public, I have noticed that, in many cases, when citizens talk about euthanasia, they mean good hospice care. [Department :Actually! ] I hope that the committee will look carefully at this issue, and in particular at the extent to which physical, mental and social pain can be eliminated by various methods, because uncertainty has been raised particularly in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u147	Mr President! This is a comparison that was made just now with animals. Of course, animals and people are quite different, but I must say that, with the credibility of the veterinarian, Mr Estilä did draw attention to the fact that we take it for granted that the suffering animal can be put to an end by law when people are not allowed to ask for this death aid if they want to. Mrs Majala rightly stated that man has an absolute right to life. That's absolutely true. But if a person insists on giving up this right in a situation where there is no hope left, why not give up that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u148	Mr President! Thank you for your beautiful words to the representatives of Pirttilahti and Hannakaisa Heikkinen. — The Ombudsman’s 2015 report on the way in which hospice care is carried out in older people’s institutions, and his point was that there are not enough staff there. We had an old-age law in the last term of the proceedings, and I tried to get a record there that these hospice guidelines and recommendations, which the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health encouraged municipalities to do, would become legal. It was unfortunate that it did not come into the law, but yet there is an indication in the Old People’s Act that if there is a special situation in the department, such as the hospice situation, it would be desirable for more staff to be hired there. This is of great importance for the employer, though, to take these situations into account. Pain — sufficient pain relief — and the presence in the hospice situation was the response of the public to the hospice seminar on what treatment they wanted to receive. I see that at the point when a person is up from the top of the bed, so painful, he should be given so much and so much painkiller,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u149	That is the last point made by this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u150	Mr President! When I was living in Belgium during the years of mep, the country accepted the extension of euthanasia to underage children, and I must say that it was the last straw for many patient associations and disability organisations and long-term sick families. Last weekend there was also an article written by Tiina Sarro and Juho Lehdon, chief physicians of palliative care in HYKS and TAYS. They say that 'legalisation of euthanasia in the current situation would lead to more questionable killings than to the mercy deaths of individuals. In Belgium, euthanasia in nursing homes and those aged over 80 is increasing, and the pain of being a burden is an important reason to wish for euthanasia. Does euthanasia soon appear to the elderly and seriously ill as an honorable wish or even a duty?" Indeed, they are concerned that euthanasia is precisely what becomes a substitute for hospice treatment. In that sense, we do not need to talk here theoretically and hypothetically about a sliding surface. It is a reality in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u151	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u152	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to speak in this debate. I did not want to summarise it as an answer because it is such a big issue and there are many aspects that need to be raised. As many have said, so to speak, we are at the root of the questions. Firstly, I believe that this citizens' initiative has shown that there are issues on which there are differing views within the parties but which the citizens want to see before Parliament, and I think that this is a typical issue in which the citizens' initiative and the right of initiative have demonstrated their strength and has received an ethically very difficult question here for Parliament. Secondly, I am very pleased that the criteria set out in this citizens' initiative are very strict, paragraph 11, which should be fulfilled under this initiative if euthanasia were to become possible, and Mr Heinonen, among other things, referred very well to these points. Thirdly, I think that the whole debate that two veteran politicians Esko Seppänen and Iiro Viinanen have started has been very valuable – this has been going on for a few years now – and they have, with their own experience of life and their own knowledge, gone into this debate and stimulated the debate in Finland. I think this is a very important indication that this civil debate is needed. And when I read this, Esko Seppänen and Ilkka Taipale... [Murder ] - Oh, there's a little noise back here. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u153	Mr President! These citizens’ initiatives are often made of things that set us on fire and with which it is good to be passionate. However, I have been pleased to see that this debate has been maintained. Mr President! It's just the basics first. In Greek, euthanasia is a good death. In speaking language and in practice euthanasia means death assistance, and this is also the case under the citizens' initiative. In particular, a few years ago and in the past, there are concepts of passive and active euthanasia. Active is the death aid mentioned above, passive is the fact that in a fatal illness, for example, the patient is not revived when the heart stops. This passive, however, is not entirely passive — even in previous years, it has not been before the current high level of hospice and palliative care. Even then, the medical staff have actively taken care of the pain medication the patient needs to avoid pain, anxiety, anxiety, and so on in the last days and moments. In the past, efforts have been made to consider the quality of life in a well-being environment as the best possible in terms of the situation. The concept of passive euthanasia itself is, of course, a bad one, because it is also a time for good and worthwhile last moments. Indeed, in recent years, palliative care and hospice care have been developed for good end-stage treatment in an incurable disease. In this context, I would like to mention once again the legislative initiative of the parliamentary group in the centre: Article 24 of the Health Care Act. It is proposed to amend it so that it is also the responsibility of the municipality and the hospital district to organise palliative and hospice care. The same bill also proposes an amendment to section 25 of the Health Care Act, which refers to home care and home hospital care. The purpose of this change is that a terminally ill patient could also spend his last moments at home. The aim of this palliative and hospice treatment is precisely painlessness, compassion, good last days. Modern, effective painkillers, when administered correctly, allow painlessness to a very large majority of dying patients. I know from my own experience that these medicines may sometimes speed up the patient’s death if they are overdosing a long career in basic health care, but this has not been experienced in any way by the Finnish medical profession. Mr President! According to the citizens' initiative, euthanasia should be allowed in a situation where the patient suffers intolerable physical or mental symptoms, pains or sufferings which cannot be materially alleviated by medical means. According to the initiative, a fatal illness would also justify euthanasia. According to the initiative, the patient should continue to submit a well-considered request for euthanasia repeatedly, be legal and cognitively competent. This fine last term means that the patient should really understand and be aware of what his request for euthanasia means. The initiative could also provide a basis for euthanasia. However, the initiative states separately that depression must first be treated — the depressed one cannot ask for euthanasia according to this initiative. This raises a few questions: Do you think, for example, a terminally ill patient is sometimes depressed? Does depression prevent them from asking for euthanasia too? It is also questionable how a person suffering from a mental illness really realizes the meaning of his request. For example, a person with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia often loses sense of reality, and it is questionable how his request should be viewed. Mr President! The simplest form of euthanasia under the initiative would perhaps be for terminally ill cancer patients. I've got a little shot. I have talked to two cancer doctors: one is a veteran, and the other is a specialist in cancer. They have told them that not one cancer patient has ever carefully suggested euthanasia to them. In cancer patients there is always hope for better things, even though from a medical point of view there is at most a little. Instead, such cautious questions have come to them from mentally ill persons. Mr President! Many people with dementia or, for example, with mental disabilities have a legal guardian to handle matters. When they develop a painful cancer, for example, they would not be able to have euthanasia, as the proposal states that euthanasia should be requested on its own and specifically on its own. If this initiative were to go through, perhaps the next step will be to consider that the right of a guardian or a relative should be to ask for euthanasia for a person with dementia, a disabled person or a substance abuse problem. And if this is the case, it should soon begin to wonder to whom the trustee should rightly be appointed. Is it possible for the court to decide on the matter of lobbying on the basis of one or two doctor’s statements? And what would be the role of relatives, i.e. heirs, in seeking lobbying? What about the role of society for those who do not have close relatives? Mr President! This reasoning will easily lead to visions of how future society may perhaps deal with its problems of old age, disability, drug or drunken madness. Is allowing euthanasia, for example, in very limited situations, the opening of the head to the drop of the human dignity of an infirm, laborious and difficult elderly person below certain critical limits? This is the kind of aspect that comes before Parliament when it deals with it. Mr President! In some countries of the world euthanasia or assisted suicide is permitted. In some countries the practice is not to prosecute the death that has been helped under certain circumstances. Such a representative of the country also feels that the initiative is contrary to the Finnish Constitution. Article 7 of the Constitution says unambiguously: "Everyone has a right to life and individual freedom, integrity and security." When dealing with an initiative, we must carefully consider the significance of someone wanting to give up his constitutional right. Someone must also carry out this wish, and I do not believe that there are very many volunteers. Euthanasia, which is irreversible every time, and despite the patient's wishes and detailed documentation, I think there would be enough complaints and complaints in this area as well. Mr President! I believe that by investing in good palliative care and hospice care, Finnish legislation best respects human dignity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u154	Mr President! The citizens' initiative on euthanasia, good death, raises a wide range of ideas that we have heard in the course of the day. I am a doctor and dying patients treated against mercy death, euthanasia. Speaking in favour of Euthanasia often comes from personal experience when you have had to follow the painful last days of a dying patient. We have also often heard reports of the suffering of a hospice patient who lives in his last days. There have been failures in both pain and respiratory failure. Doctors and medical staff have not been able to implement adequate medication. Unfortunately, we doctors often have unwarranted ambition to improve the patient even in hopeless situations. It is ethically wrong to always give new hope, even if it does not actually exist. As a doctor, different treatment options, their estimated benefits, risk of complications, benefits and risks should be reported. It is of the utmost importance that doctors and medical staff engage themselves with the permission of the dying patient and his family to hear and carry out his will in the preparation of the treatment plan for the last days. We need more training in the initial and further training of doctors to meet death, as well as in the initial and further training of medical staff. Especially when you're hearing a patient, it takes a lot of skill. In my previous work, I have been developing a high-quality palliative care unit covering the whole province and a hospice in Päijät-Häme. In this context Lahti set up its own hospice care department in 2007. A private hospice home had been run in the area for a long time, but based on uncertain utilisation rates and poor examples of nearby cities, the project was frozen. Our project showed that the hospice care department on the side of the public health centre hospital works well and is able to maintain competence and cost-effectiveness in its operations. Hospice should be carried out at home, at the health centre and in special medical care, mainly during the last consultation visits. At all levels, we need to focus our attention on the development of skills, training by the provincial palliative multidisciplinary unit that has been proposed by experts in this field. University hospital level education we have at two universities. Mr President! From my point of view, the legislative initiative to allow Euthanasia contains a number of serious problems. I am convinced of the effectiveness of the implementation of high-quality hospice care, which means that euthanasia is not needed. We can return to Euthanasia again and again, but once it has been introduced, it will lead to a very escalating surface. In the Netherlands, up to 2.4% of deaths occur through euthanasia. In Finland, it would mean more than a thousand deaths a year. In the Netherlands, the legislation on euthanasia has been reformed, not in a narrower direction, as requested by their experts, but also by bringing new groups of patients into euthanasia: demented old people, children. In Belgium, children are also covered by euthanasia. Too often in the U.S., an old man ends up dying mercy because of the pain of being a burden. Mr President! So we need to decide whether we are using limited palliative and hospice care to develop and achieve quality care and care for pain, or whether we are using the patient's desire for treatment, self-desired death as doctors, nurses or to prepare statements and report back. I think it is more logical to use these resources specifically for development activities. I'm one of the signatories to the downtown hospice bill. According to our presentation, an addition to the obligations of the municipality and the health care district is added to Section 24 of the Health Care Act on the organisation of palliative and hospice care in an institution, service housing and home nursing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u155	Mr President! We have received a citizens' initiative to legalise euthanasia in Finland. The subject is far from light but close to what is at the heart of this house: to weigh and determine the relationship between public authority and citizens throughout the life cycle. I support the initiative's proposal to legalise euthanasia under strict conditions. In this respect, I believe that a key line was taken in connection with the decriminalisation of suicide as early as the late 19th century. It was then established that power over life and death primarily belongs to man himself. However, there are situations in which a person is not himself capable of exercising this power because of his lost physical ability. I understand that this initiative is looking for a euthanasia solution to this particular situation. We know that even the best treatment is not always enough to suppress pain. We also know that decisions on life and death are inevitably present in many ways already in the work of a doctor. However, we still know a number of cautionary examples of history in which laws based on reason and humanity have been used in a terrible way against humanity. Therefore, it is wise and wise to proceed with caution. Euthanasia would be allowed for people whose suffering is untenable and who cannot be alleviated by other means. This would be voluntary for doctors and other health care professionals. The debate has repeatedly raised concerns that legalising euthanasia could lead to a culture similar to that of Holland or Belgium, where euthanasia has also been committed to people with mental health problems and minors. This concern in the initiative is answered by a point where euthanasia is limited only to those situations where death is near. Unfortunately, I recognise the problem of being a burden from people's experience, and in this society too often. But is this the solution to deny euthanasia or perhaps to build a society in which people do not have to feel burdened and where old age divides between all of us in such a way that when they get old or sick, a person does not have to worry about whether the money of the loved ones is enough to live daily because caring for someone close to him takes such a big slice? I believe that there is an essential difference between euthanasia in the welfare state and euthanasia in a country that thinks that everyone cares for themselves and their loved ones. Mr President! For my part, I hope that when everything is done, when there is only good-bye and pain and there are no good alternatives, then I will have the chance to choose the least bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u156	Mr President! In more than five weeks, the citizens’ initiative for good death collected the 50,000 names needed, and then 13,000 more before they decided to collect the names. The objective had already been achieved, and the initiative is now here in the parliamentary referral debate. The debate seems to be a good one, because we respect each other's opinions on this undeniably difficult issue. My group also has different opinions on this issue, so I am speaking mainly on my own behalf. This important citizens' initiative has been motivated by the growing need to have a broad social debate on a subject that has long been almost taboo and, for various reasons, difficult to discuss when it has been mixed up with hospice treatment or it has been claimed that it is intended to treat the elderly and the disabled or to save society's money. Of course, this is not the case. The fact is, however, that this subject stirs up a great deal of thought among those who, for various reasons, have had to deal with the sensitive questions of the end of life. At present, it is not possible in Finland, i.e. legal, for a person to receive active death support at his or her own firm request, if he or she suffers from an incurable and inevitably fatal illness or if, in any case, the person’s illness causes continuous and intolerable suffering for the rest of his or her life. This means a well - defined situation in which medical treatments have done everything possible and where a patient waiting for his own death has nothing left of life other than inhuman physical suffering, depression or panic, for example, in the face of an imminent death of asphyxiation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u157	Mr President! I don't know what kind of world Mr. Wallin is talking about. Good death, many things he raised — especially good hospice treatment for all those who need it all over Finland will answer these questions. There is no such thing as "passive euthanasia". Euthanasia is always an active measure, a deliberate killing of another person. Discontinuation of a particular medication or treatment means letting its death come at its own time. It's not passive euthanasia. Today pain can be treated, suffering can be treated, anxiety can be treated. No patient needs to die with asphyxiation or anxiety. It is one thing that it has not been available throughout Finland at this stage, but the patient can also be sent to the unit where it is available. But we can take care of the patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u158	Mr President! I fully agree with the need for a law on hospice care, and I have actually signed a representative. An initiative by Mr Räsänen on this issue. But it must be remembered that palliative treatment, hospice treatment is needed and needs to be improved specifically for those who want it. But that is not an alternative to euthanasia. Those who want euthanasia must also be allowed that opportunity. It's based on their own free will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u159	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u160	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative. Thanks to this initiative, these difficult issues, such as euthanasia and good death, have taken place in a broad, diverse and analytical debate. I also believe that thanks to this debate, as has already been heard here, the development of hospice care will also be given fresh impetus. I admit that it is very difficult to remain pragmatic in this debate, because at least I have a lot of feeling about it. My position on this euthanasia issue I have formed, listening, trying to listen to as many experts as possible, and then incorporating my own experiences as a nurse as well as a dying next of kin. In the citizens' initiative, euthanasia is proposed to be legalised on the basis of strict criteria for only a few patients. Although these framework conditions seem clear, they may, in practice, be problematic. For example, an intolerable suffering that cannot be mitigated in any other way, who is able to determine it, or a short life expectancy? Life expectancy, as we all know, is difficult, and on the other hand, who defines what "short" means? For someone it could be a day, for someone a week, for someone a month. In my own long reflections on the one hand and on the other, I have finally decided to say no to the euthanasia. But there is no way I'm against a good death. All those in need should have access to good care in the face of death, regardless of time and place. For example, experts in palliative care have said that hospice treatment would have the potential to manage severe suffering if all its potential were at the disposal of all citizens. Unfortunately, this is not happening all over Finland. At the moment, far too many patients experience distrust of access to hospice. Although the three-step hospice model is being built in Finland, this work is still ongoing. We also have the problem that we need more hospice training for doctors and nurses alike. The Hospice Care Act has been raised several times in this debate in a positive way, and I also believe that the Hospice Care Act is a good one. But I would like to say once again that we have the Health Care Act, which entered into force in 2010, which states in Article 24 that this prevention, cure and alleviation of disease. Then the detailed explanatory statement of that law also highlights hospice treatment and what it means and where it is used. While we have this new law on hospice care, possibly in this country, I would like to see the health care districts and municipalities actually comply with the health care law and use the possibilities provided by the Health Care Act to develop hospice care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u161	Mr President! Every life is precious and unique, and so is death. When we are born alone, we have to leave here alone, and then go where is unknown. But the citizens' initiative calls for the legalisation of human euthanasia. Its text contains a repeated Finnish interpretation of euthanasia, "good death". The legalisation of Euthanasia is justified by an increase in the end-of-life alternative for people who wish to do so themselves. The issue of legalisation of Euthanasia has been widely discussed in public. It has evoked strong feelings for and against. The fear of the future of proponents is understandable when the number of older people increases and there seems to be insufficient money for decent care. It has been felt that it is not enough to relieve seriously ill symptoms or that prolonging life by medical means is futile. An ageing person, too, quite often fears being burdened with fellow humans, thinking that speeding up death would be a better option. Those who advocate Euthanasia justify their claim so that a person must be able to make his own decisions about his life and death. Euthanasia is not such an option because the final decision would be made by a doctor. The physician must first assess the patient’s legal capacity and reasoning, as well as the patient’s psychosocial status and much more. The doctor would not be able to agree to any request for euthanasia, which would be based not on autonomy but on the rules created by society. In the end, it would be a doctor’s social obligation to make a decision about deciding a person’s life. Hence, man’s right to be killed would be the duty of another person to kill. Bad experiences with hospice care may be the reason why a person ends up supporting euthanasia. In the citizens' initiative, the main reasons for euthanasia are incurable, fatal illness, short life expectancy and intolerable suffering, which could not be alleviated by other means. However, even severe suffering can be alleviated by modern methods, and according to current law, the patient can decide on his treatment. Palliative treatment can already relieve a significant proportion of patients’ suffering. The last resort is the so-called palliative sedation, which causes the dying and suffering person to fall into an artificial sleep with the end of his life, which, in these cases, offers the most valuable death possible. We heard here, for example, from the representatives of Pirkanmaa Nursing Home, what kind of hospice they have, and I promised to go there for a day or two. Instead of drawing up a law on euthanasia, a law must be drawn up in Finland to ensure skilled and equitable hospice care, regardless of the status and place of residence of the person. There is a high risk that euthanasia will be used as a substitute for hospice. In countries where euthanasia is legal, it can be seen that euthanasia is becoming more common in situations and on the loosest grounds. The Netherlands and Belgium were the first countries in the world to allow euthanasia in 2002. More than 5500 euthanasias were registered in the Netherlands in 2015. More than 70 percent of those who wanted euthanasia suffered from cancer. In both countries, euthanasia has also been authorised for young people with mental disorders and in the Netherlands euthanasia can be done for children over 12 years of age. Mr President! As has been said here, hospice treatment is not guaranteed by law in Finland. That is indeed what we have said here. Now we share a common desire, in honor of 100-year-old Finland, to have a functioning hospice in our country, after which everyone can leave here without pain, at home or outside the home. Finally, I support Mrs Räsänen's proposal to send an opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u162	Mr President! We are now discussing the fundamental values of life. The authorisation of Euthanasia has been speaking in Finland for several decades. I therefore believe that this is obviously a matter of eternity, and that is what it is. Euthanasia is an irreversible matter of eternity. Euthanasia is the end of life. Controlled, good and dignified hospice will eventually produce the same result. We should all have a chance. The citizens' initiative, among other things, obliges municipalities to provide hospice care and so that it should be available throughout Finland. I believe that good and proper hospice treatment should be a subjective right for everyone, that the care of children should be provided with national recommendations and that the legislation on hospice care should be placed on the same deck, as Mr Arja Juvonen, a representative of the Finnish Parliament, has called for in his initiative for action. According to the Act, the development of hospice care must also be taken into account in the reform of social welfare and health care. I think that the line taken by Mr Juvonen's initiative for action is better than that of the citizens' initiative currently under discussion on legalisation of euthanasia in Finland. After all, literally euthanasia means good death. In Finland, there is usually talk of mercy death or death relief, and death can be good without euthanasia, at least with the next of kin. In this debate, it is important that we speak with dispassionateness, respect for different religions and respect for different aspects. That is what I am pleased to see today in this Chamber. There are several countries that have already adopted so-called passive euthanasia in their legislation. This means not giving treatment in their country or suspending treatment that has already been started. Passive death relief has been a fact in Finland for quite a long time. In Finland, it means in practice giving up curative treatment and related hospice care, if available at local level. From the moment a person is known to die within the next month of stopping treatment, it is not a long way to accelerate death, especially when the pain of a person is unbearable. But what is the purpose of life and death, and is it the right way to value outgoing life by giving him mercy? The sanctity of life is a very elongated concept, also depending on different religions and their viewpoints. What, then, is the sanctity of life? For me, life is a very sacred thing, human life from womb to grave. I think it is very important to protect life wherever I can influence it. I have also protected life in many ways for a living. I also think that human life cannot be replaced, touched or hurt. Everyone's dignity must be recognised. Every person must be respected for his own sake and not be objectified. I will come back to the fact that life is sacred, from another point of view. Throughout the ages, bishops and priests have blessed the killings of wars and have died young men when their lives were only beginning. They have blessed them because life is holy. The Old Testament also allows for the killing of legitimate wars and self-defense. However, no innocent was to be killed. Even today tens of thousands of innocent people die in wars when they have to operate against the enemy in settlements, but life is sacred. It must be admitted that hospice treatment and this citizens' initiative do not differ very much. Both have the same outcome: death that cannot be reversed. I think the most important thing is to leave this world after good and adequate treatment. For myself and my loved ones, I hope to leave after a good hospice. I do not see sufficient ethical grounds for legalising euthanasia, or even a practical need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u163	Mr President! I would like to start by supporting Mr Räsänen's proposal that this be sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Constitution protects the right of every person to life and, on the other hand, the relationship with the Criminal Code needs to be clarified. We are therefore dealing with a citizens' initiative which calls for euthanasia to be allowed. Many people believe that the euthanasia debate is about the abolition of life functions that are reluctantly maintained, so to speak in national terms, so to speak, in hoses, but, as has been the case here in several doctor's speeches, in an expert way, especially in Mr Räsänen's speech, the patient can today, with his will and his refusal to treat them. Good hospice treatment, on the other hand, includes respect for the dying patient’s own wishes, adequate pain relief, symptomatic drugs and good basic care. In Euthanasia, on the other hand, it is an active killing of another person, an end to life, and both the World Medical Association and the Finnish Medical Association are opposed to euthanasia. Euthanasia, with the exception of the Benelux countries, is banned throughout Europe. As I said in that debate, while I was living in Belgium in those mep years, the country accepted the extension of euthanasia to underage children, i.e. people who cannot decide in their own lives to drive or buy tobacco, but who can decide to end their own lives. I attended the European Parliament’s meeting of the anti-euthanasia coalition, the so-called EPC Europe — the Euthanasia Prevention Coalition — where there were disabled activists, representatives of patient organisations and also relatives of long-term ills concerned about these changed attitudes and developments. Their message was very strong: children with physical or mental disabilities, defenceless children, the elderly and the poor should be guaranteed the same protection as healthy and well-off people. Euthanasia must not become a means of saving the cost of medical care. In Belgium and the Netherlands, euthanasia has been used to end the lives of deaf twins who have suffered from mental illness, anorexics who have been abused, who have undergone a failed sex change operation and who are at risk of blinding them. None of these cases were terminally ill, there was no prospect of a rapid death, but they were specifically treated with euthanasia. In spite of everything, death relief was indeed granted to them. The number of people killed in Euthanasia in the Netherlands has increased by 64% between 2005 and 2010, and ending the lives of newborns with disabilities is already legal with the consent of parents. The examples in Belgium and the Netherlands unquestionably show how quickly and easily euthanasia expands to patients other than hospice. The legalisation of Euthanasia is very often campaigned, so to speak, by the self-determination of the patient and, just as in this citizens' initiative, the emphasis is placed on strict safeguards and limitations in the application of the law. However, we do not need to theoreticalise or hypothetically reflect on what is going on here: we have an example, unfortunately, of the countries in which the law exists. Expansion is being driven to the most vulnerable people, thus exposing them to this type of decision-making. In my debut speech, I also pointed out that there was an excellent article in the guest pen of the Helsingin Sanomat last weekend. Tiina Saarto and Juho Lehto — Saarto is the chief physician of the palliative centre at the Helsinki University Hospital and Lehto, on the other hand, the unit’s chief physician at the Tampere University Hospital — stated in that very versatile article that legalising euthanasia in the current situation would lead to more questionable killings than to the mercy deaths of individuals. And they also went through the Belgian situation and pointed out that in Belgium euthanasia in nursing homes and in those over 80s is increasing and the pain of being a burden is an important reason to wish for euthanasia. The question is whether euthanasia will soon appear to the elderly and seriously ill as an honorable wish or even a duty. The fact that the demand for euthanasia in Finland has been raised right now is quite symptomatic. We have recently had a debate here on what, for example, the level of institutional care should be. And then the savings in home care have resulted in us not having enough time for elderly or disabled customers. I also want to quote Pekka Särkiö, the field bishop from Lahti. In his article, he states that if the taboo of killing breaks, the threshold of taking life may be reduced: "In our culture, human life has an inalienable value, with a high If the taboo of killing breaks, the threshold for taking a life may be lowered. The risk of this increases as the number of older people increases, the dependency ratio weakens and health care expenditure increases." Looking at these hospice homes in Finland, which are currently four of them: Terhokoti that Karinakoti has been in financial difficulties, and as I have said in my speech on the subject: we here are now very eager to talk about the need to have that hospice legislation in Finland and to improve the situation of hospice care, I am sure that is the case, but is it not, indeed, symptomatic of the fact that it was just yesterday in Karina home that negotiations were started? That in this situation is the situation of Finnish hospice care and specialised units. In other words, it is certainly time to go to Finland now to develop this hospice treatment. I hope that if at all anything good has been about this euthanasia debate, then that would lead to this hospice development in Finland finally being taken seriously. We are about to undergo a major social reform, and if we think that this situation is very varied in various parts of Finland at the moment, then there is no great guarantee that the situation will improve, but we absolutely must now move on from the patient's right to that good hospice. Mrs Räsänen's bill is based on the fact that the patient is entitled to this good hospice treatment. Indeed, it is important to integrate these good care practices in hospice homes more widely into the general health system and to ensure that good hospice care is available across Finland. Heikki Pälvesi, Chairman of the Medical Association, was interviewed and said that these practices differ enormously across Finland. In municipalities where there is good hospice care, there is a home hospital through which the dying person gets help in his own home, and the activities include a support department that is experienced in hospice care, where the patient can enter if necessary, the nurses are trained, doctors have the opportunity to acquire additional qualifications for palliative care, but at worst the municipality lacks both, both the possibility of well-informed home and ward care and the possibility for employees to train themselves. Indeed, these practices in hospice homes should be extended but then also taken care of by these specialised units and their ability to continue to provide this good care. Mr President! As I am sure this speech has shown, I certainly do not support this citizens' initiative to allow euthanasia. For us Christian Democrats, the dignity of every human being is this, you might say, a political ideological starting point, that is, the dignity of every human being is full and irreplaceable. So even from this point of value, when we look at this situation, we want to protect the sanctity of a person’s life from the womb to the grave and really take good care of every person. I hope that this debate will lead to a real development of hospice care in Finland, but this euthanasia initiative will be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u164	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to support Mr Räsänen's proposal to send this initiative not only to us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health but also to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Laws. Mr President! I am speaking now as a family member and a doctor who has seen a variety of departures over the last 30 years. I am also speaking as a member of the Medical Association and as a doctor who highly appreciates specialist doctors and other staff in palliative care units and hospice homes. There is the same message everywhere: not for euthanasia, yes for good hospice. The appreciation of life and good hospice care for those in need of it all throughout Finland. The dignity of every human being and the life of every human being is priceless and unique. Human dignity does not depend on man’s age, ability to function, productivity or place of residence. We now have a citizens' initiative on euthanasia. I understand the pain and anxiety experienced by close initiativeers and some of its supporters when they see that a loved one has not received adequate treatment or relief for his or her suffering before death. I am sorry that this has happened to some people, and I am sorry that many of the family and loved ones have been left alone with their anxiety and have not received sufficient help from their own pains. However, this cannot and must not be the reason why the active killing of another person is included in the problem-solving menu. There's no way I can support euthanasia. In the debate on Euthanasia, there is concern about the confusion of concepts, and one reason why the tens of thousands of names came into this citizens' initiative so quickly is precisely that many people thought they were in favour of something other than euthanasia. So Euthanasia means killing a man. It's always an active procedure. If you're thinking of criminal law, there's a manslaughter in the Penal Code, there's a manslaughter in it, and there's murder in it. To put it bluntly, manslaughter means that it was just as it happened by accident. Killing is a sudden act of killing someone. The murder is designed to kill someone else. From that we can think of what category euthanasia actually belongs to. People should not be given treatments that prolong suffering without hope. Nor should any treatment be given if a person refuses to do so. These issues are already part of the patient’s legal rights. So it is not euthanasia or death support, but good care, while respecting the patient's autonomy. In the citizens' initiative, the main reasons for euthanasia are the incurable death-related illness, the short life expectancy, the intolerable suffering that cannot be alleviated by any other means and the voluntary, fully understood request for euthanasia. These are therefore the main reasons for this citizens' initiative. It is proposed that Euthanasia be legalised under very strict conditions, which would only apply to a few patients. These marginal conditions may appear to be clear at first sight, but in reality there are very difficult problems, and I would like to highlight a few of them. First of all, an incurable fatal illness. This definition hardly limits the use of euthanasia. Even now, two thirds of the world’s population and even more in the West experience death as a result of an incurable death. These include chronic lung diseases, renal and hepatic failure, cirrhosis of the liver, neurological diseases, cardiovascular diseases and also cancer. Then, if we think of a short life expectancy, the euthanasia criterion of the citizens' initiative that death should take place in the near future is problematic for a number of reasons. For one thing, life expectancy is really uncertain, and even if it were successful, what would be a short enough forecast to justify euthanasia — a week, a month, or what? In Belgium, about 15% of euthanasia is committed to patients whose disease will not be fatal in the near future, just as Mrs Essayah said earlier. What, then, is an intolerable suffering that cannot be alleviated by any other means? In two states in the United States, where medical suicide is permitted, only one in four or three cases causes pain. In Belgium and the Netherlands, however, in half of the cases of euthanasia, fear of suffering has been at the root of the euthanasia barrier. In Finland, we have the knowledge and the ability to provide each patient with pain treatment, treatment of suffering, and relief. There is also a palliative sedation, and this sedation can also be carried out in primary health care units with the support of a hospice unit. We do well to remember that the patient also has the right to refuse treatment. In the Netherlands and Belgium, when much has been said about this sloping surface, the patient may refuse symptomatic treatment and hospice treatment but still get euthanasia. The loss of dignity, the insignificance of life and the loss of functional ability are the most important reasons for the desire for death. In the U.S., these were part of a death wish for almost all patients. All of these often cause severe suffering even before death is near, but are we prepared to solve these with death too? Hospice treatment would have the potential to manage difficult suffering if all its potential were at the disposal of all citizens. By professionals, a three-step hospice treatment model is being built in Finland, where every person would have equal access to appropriate hospice care, depending on the difficulty of the situation: high-level hospice care, special hospice care or local hospice care. The teaching of hospice care should be increased. At the moment, it only exists at the universities of Tampere and Helsinki, where there are palliative care curricula and chairs. There are also shortcomings in further training at the moment. If we think of what is optional, a request for euthanasia in full understanding, the pain of being a burden in the United States has been reported as the cause of death's desire every second. As someone wrote to me, the baby-booms, those born after the wars have, as it were, been born with the impression that one must act for society but must not be a burden to anyone. When we consider euthanasia, it is good to remember that a healthy person values life in very different ways than a sick person, and it may be asked whether we are left with only the values of healthy people. In the Netherlands and Belgium, the ultimate purpose for euthanasia was the same as in the Finnish citizens' initiative, but the reality has proved to be very different. Nearly 8% of cancer patients die through euthanasia. Euthanasia has gradually become an alternative to hospice therapy and, in part, a subjective right to live for tired people and those who fear the end of life. As has already been said here, legalising euthanasia in the current situation would more often lead to questionable killings than to the mercy deaths of individuals, as our palliative doctors have said. A hospice law should be drawn up in Finland. The educational programme for palliative medicine should be included in the curriculum of all universities and medical faculties. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u167	Mr President! Almost everything possible and impossible has already been said this evening. However, I am speaking on this subject on the basis of extremely personal experience. I have over 20 years of experience in the treatment of dying patients and over 10 years of experience as an instructor. This should give me a reasonable basis to discuss and create an idea of hospice treatment, euthanasia, so-called good death. Man’s death is individual, as is his life. At some point in our lives, each of us also faces the question of his own death and the fears and hopes associated with that last stage of life. Our own view, our understanding of a valuable life, and our precious death also vary according to our stage of life. Fear, concern for loss of dignity, pain and suffering drive a person easily to seek manageable solutions to an impossible situation. That is what I think the euthanasia debate is all about. It is a question of man’s human need to anticipate, influence and control. Controlling life is difficult, as each of us well knows. With modern medicine and medical science, death related to chronic disease is almost invariably manageable for physical symptoms. In terms of mental and spiritual pain, the situation is more challenging. The current health system simply lacks resources or knowledge. Over the past few years, I have had to face completely appalling examples of how the patient’s needs are ignored because of lack of knowledge or indifference. I would argue that there is not a lack of means to prevent good death, but an indifference that arises when there is a shortage of education, resources, work management and good management. Professionals and volunteers doing hospice work deserve much more appreciation and support so that they can care about every single person. For years, I have heard fine words about the development of hospice care and have tried to influence the improvement of hospice care, both as a doctor, as a trainer and as a politician. I hope that through this valuable euthanasia initiative, paradoxically, we will have good hospice care for all Finns as a basic right. One of the main themes of the Euthanasia initiative is the reduction of suffering. What, then, is suffering? The experience of suffering arises through the individual life situation of a person, through his social and cultural framework. So suffering is a time-bound and highly individualized experience. I have been asked for euthanasia in my profession, but no one, no patient, has renewed their request once his symptoms have been resolved. I have seen many deaths in my own personal life, but above all in my work at the reception and at the bedside of a dying patient, and I admit that there have been situations in which, through my personal knowledge, I have wondered about the meaning of the patient’s life and I have considered the interface between good palliative treatment and mercy death as part of my own growth as a cancer doctor. However, the border between the two is quite clear, as is my opinion on euthanasia. The management of the final phase of life and the concepts of measures also involve inaccuracies in this parliamentary debate, as in the euthanasia initiative. Unhealed disease restricts the use of euthanasia poorly, as well as the life expectancy. It is therefore important that, at the time, the committee's opinion clarifies the various concepts in such a way that everyone, at least in this Chamber, knows what we are talking about when we talk about ballwork, sedation or euthanasia. The Euthanasia debate also raises the question of hope. I don't want to joke or get smart with a serious thing, but what's the definition of hope? If permanent healing is the definition of hope, we have no hope. The hope of a person approaching death should be built realistically. Life can also be meaningful in the last days and hours of life. My own view is based not only on my experience as a doctor but also on the question of determining the free will of man through my ethical basis. Few people are completely independent of the value climate in which they have grown, lived their lives, and are now approaching their death. Most people have their own closeness and loved ones who are affected in different ways by the impending death of the patient. I have seen situations in which the family lives together to support a dying patient in that precious phase of life, and also to make a living for themselves in the future. I have also seen relatives who wish for economic and, let me say, for other rather inhuman reasons to speed up the patient's death, and I am sorry to say that I have also seen direct psychological violence against a dying patient who has been pressured to give up treatment. So, as a doctor, how can I be sure to determine what is man’s free will? I cannot therefore support this initiative through my ethical and professional view. I fully support the efforts made to implement good hospice treatment for all in this country every day from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u168	Mr President! An exceptionally good and in-depth debate has taken place in Parliament today. For that, thank you to all those who took part in the debate and to those who are still taking part. The citizens' initiative under discussion therefore proposes legalisation of euthanasia in Finland. According to the explanatory statement of the citizens' initiative, euthanasia is needed as an alternative to people who do not find relief in their suffering despite good care. The initiative provides for the condition of euthanasia, including the incurable, fatal disease and the patient's understanding, judgment and free will when making a request for euthanasia. Euthanasia is a very important ethical issue which addresses the fundamental issues of human life. As has been said here today, literally euthanasia is a matter of life and death. Even if there are no religious points of view involved, life and death are still mysteries to us. Even science is not yet able to explain them, so we should be very careful about this. In this respect too, it is very difficult to give an unambiguous answer for or against euthanasia. Human fates differ very much. Whenever there is life, there is hope, but on the other hand, of course, no one should be burdened with endless suffering. I believe that the opinion of many Members of Parliament on this issue is not entirely cut in stone, and I am also part of this group. However, if Parliament decides to move forward with regard to euthanasia legislation, I hope that the changes will be very cautious and moderate. Medical assistance for death is permitted in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg and Colombia. In Germany, Switzerland, Canada and some parts of the United States, terminally ill patients can receive a dose of medicines that lead to death by prescription prescribed by a doctor. The introduction of such models in Finland would be a major change compared to the current situation. They are also very different from the passive euthanasia in Sweden, for example. According to polls, the majority of Finns would accept euthanasia. On the other hand, the reaction of the Medical Union to euthanasia is negative, and it does not see sufficient ethical grounds or practical need for legalisation of euthanasia. Of course, doctors face death much more often than laymen, and they may have considered this matter more carefully. Medical science is also developing all the time, so what we consider to be an incurable disease today can be treated in a few years’ time. Yet, for a person suffering from pain, even one year can be an untenable long time. Mr President! Therefore, while I have reservations about euthanasia, I do not have a fully unconditional position on the euthanasia issue and it is good that the matter should be dealt with carefully and thoroughly in committee. Finally, as Mr Juvonen put it in his initiative for action, for example, good hospice treatment should become a subjective right. This is an absolutely acceptable principle. Although people’s response to pain and pain is individual, the suffering of the end of human life must be mitigated in every way possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u169	Mr President! Paragraph 7(1) of Chapter 2 of the Constitution states: "Everyone has the right to life and personal liberty, integrity and security." Paragraph 2 of the same paragraph states: 'No one shall be sentenced to death, to torture or otherwise treat human dignity as an insult'. And paragraph 3 says: "Personal immunity must not be interfered with or deprived of liberty arbitrarily or without a legal basis." These points of the Constitution mean, at least, that euthanasia must not take place unless it is governed by law. The purpose of the citizens' initiative is to ensure that this requirement for legislation is met and that euthanasia can be implemented. The aim would be to prevent arbitrary interference with personal integrity. The citizens' initiative will come at least at that point if it receives the form of the bill which it does not now have to send to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion. Then, among other things, we will have to take a stand on what the right to life means. Does the right to life also mean the right to die? Can a person surrender his right to live under someone else’s control? Does the right to life also mean the right to demand the assistance of a public authority or authority in ending life? Is the patient's self-determination imposed on the medical staff in this matter? From the point of view of the Constitution, there is also a need to take a stand as to whether the ending of another person’s life at his request would be a public or significant public exercise of power or not? Should the person who performed the procedure or who gave the opinion, two doctors, always be the official, or could a private doctor, for example, be involved? I do not think it is self-evident that responsibility for such a matter could be given to a private operator. Mr President! The Constitution prohibits the treatment of a person in violation of human dignity. The Euthanasia debate and the initiative are based on fears and perceptions and also on individual experiences of not treating the individual with respect for human dignity in a situation where he suffers from unbearably severe pain without being relieved of his pain. Many have come to the conclusion that euthanasia, the ending of an individual’s life by an outside person, would in some cases be the only way to put an end to the human dignity of the individual. In the context of the Euthanasia debate, Article 19 of Chapter 2 of the Constitution provides for the right to social security. Its paragraph 3 states: "The public authority must ensure,as more precisely as the nighttime is regulated,that adequate social and healthservices Article 22 of the Constitution states: 'Public authorities must ensure the implementation of fundamental rights and human rights'. This opens up an important point of view for the euthanasia debate, which is what we have been discussing for the most part today. Will our society do enough to respect the dignity of the individual as he approaches his death? Is there an opportunity for good, professional and non-urgent hospice treatment available to everyone? Is the knowledge of hospice care patients sufficiently diverse, and are the best medicines available for proper pain treatment? Is there sufficient awareness of the psychological and social dimensions of hospice treatment? Will the individual’s right to adequate social and health care be fulfilled in hospice care? The Socialist Group in Parliament, as I am sure has already been said here today, has today submitted to Parliament an initiative for measures to safeguard the care of hospice. According to many experts, high-quality hospice therapy is today able to ensure proper pain treatment for patients in such a way that the patient’s life as a solution to pain treatment becomes unnecessary. The remaining real problems relate to shortcomings in staff training and poor access to hospice care, and this is a resource issue. The aim of the initiative is to ensure equal access to good hospice care for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u170	Mr President! The authors of the initiative deserve to be commended for bringing this important issue to the debate. I do not claim to be very wise at this stage to take a position on this initiative and I will wait for the committee work to be carried out. Wise health professionals have put forward good arguments that the tragic fates that this death relief initiative is intended to alleviate could, in fact, be avoided by better hospice treatment within the framework of existing or almost existing legislation. I think we already have a reasonably good piece of legislation on this, although this kind of treatment is still far from being available to all dying people. But my impression is that hospice treatment and alleviation of suffering are already part of the detailed arguments of the Health Care Act. On the other hand, in the opinion of many philosophers, it is not in principle the wrong idea that a liberal society that respects the free will of people should respect the free will of a person, even if this clearly expressed self-will would be by appropriate security mechanisms to put an end to one's own life. Is it possible for a person to die if that's what he clearly wants? And if there really was evidence that such a death relief procedure would make a credible improvement in the dying situation, could it be an improvement in the present state? In many ways, a healthy person can end his day, often a terminally ill one, and in this sense these persons are in a unequal position. That is an argument that is usually from this box and that is absolutely sacred in this Chamber. Well, these are difficult questions, I don't know the answers to them. I hope that we can learn more from these aspects during the forthcoming committee reading. Mr President! However, as an economic and social scientist, I would like to draw attention to something which has not yet been emphasised very much here, namely that these issues will increasingly be with us in the decades ahead, perhaps more than we are aware of at the moment. I believe that society has never been in the situation we are coming to, that is to say that there are so many old people, who also have long-term illnesses and who can be kept alive through advanced technology. In many cases, however, such a life can be worthless from the point of view of the person concerned. The life expectancy is rapidly increasing, medical technology and technology is advancing, and many older people may experience society working under the conditions of younger people and falling into a situation where the desire for life is weakening. There will be a lot of elderly people suffering from dementias and other long-term treatable diseases, very much in relation to the young and active population in society. Furthermore, the budgetary resources of society may develop in such a way that, despite all the goodwill, we cannot guarantee to all those who die the kind of care and good care that we believe to be justified and which has been considered justified in this evening's debate. It is very easy to say that we want a good hospice for all, but it also competes for resources with all the good intentions that are justified in this House on other days. So we do not compare the death relief initiative to some ideal, best hospice world, but to the hospice world that the ageing Finland will be able to afford. Good care also costs money, and the resources invested in it compete with primary school, combatants and business subsidies, just like all other resources. In other words, when we call for hospice treatment in this Chamber, as it were, we must remember that there are so many other things that are required here, perhaps always without thinking that we can afford every single thing, but not all the hopes that are being expressed here, in an ageing society of scarce public funds. Such a gradual transition to a society that is much more than it used to be in relation to old people may also, over time, affect our perceptions of the legitimacy of suicide and death relief. It will therefore be quite a new situation in which perceptions of the acceptability of suicide may become different from what they have been in Europe because of old monotheistic religions. I do not want to take a normative position on these developments or to welcome them, but as a social scientist, I am trying to draw up possible or even probable prospects for the future. And in any case, I think it is almost certain that these questions and the chances of a dignified death will be with us in an uplifting way. That is why it is most justified that there should be an in-depth debate on death support now and that the legislation on hospice care should be amended. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u171	Mr President! In Finland, hospice and pain relief are still in infancy despite high medical competence. Since 2009, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has drawn up guidelines on hospice care, which are only indicative. Each municipality is responsible for the implementation of hospice care. The citizens' initiative under consideration indicates that, in addition to the adoption of the Euthanasia Act, care must be taken for the necessary, comprehensive and high-quality treatment for the relief of symptoms and hospice care. This initiative is to be welcomed, although I believe that the objectives are in the wrong order. The Euthanasia Act should not exclude hospice treatment or prevent the development of hospice therapy to provide high quality symptoms and pain relief treatment for all those in need. I believe that a law should be passed on hospice, which includes euthanasia as a last resort if the patient so wishes and the criteria now being met. Ultimately, the individual has the right to decide on all matters that concern him. However, Euthanasia is not without problems. The law should be so strict and complete that every possible abuse of euthanasia is prevented, because in this case the price of abuse is the highest possible price for the patient, namely death. In addition, the law must be binding and as little as possible open to interpretation to prevent the emergence of an escalating surface which slips into a situation such as that of Belgium and Holland, where euthanasia is allowed on the basis of mental illness, such as depression. Although the criteria set out in the initiative are good, the role of minors in the euthanasia law, for example, remains to be considered. If an adult has the freedom to choose, the child is equally entitled to an alternative to the intolerable suffering of the last moments of life if the treatments cannot alleviate them. It remains to be considered who or who makes the decision in the case of underage children. Mr President! If the problems and problems I mentioned above can be resolved in committee, then I am prepared to support the citizens' initiative before us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u172	Mr President! The citizens' initiative before us to allow euthanasia in Finland has given rise to a lively debate, and I think that in this debate in Parliament, excellent analytical speeches have been used, in which both opinions have been illustrated with good arguments. My position on this initiative is negative. I think that the value of life is so great that a person has no right to go and make decisions about when it should end. Just as the value of man, the value of life is undivided and untouchable. Two doctors, doctors at Helsinki University Hospital and Tampere University Hospital, wrote in Helsingin Sanom a few days ago a very wise article on palliative care: "The legalisation of euthanasia in the current situation would more often lead to questionable killings than to the mercy deaths of individuals." These few phrases include very great wisdom, because it must also be borne in mind that if euthanasia is allowed, then a step is taken in the direction in which, for example, an economic situation or a person’s disability or mental situation may be the reason for going into such a procedure, or an economic situation or world situation, or any other crisis, may momentarily cause such decisions, which are irreversible. I do not believe that a civilised society should go into such a situation. The Constitution in Finland guarantees the integrity of life, the right to a dignified human life as well as human dignity. They are at the very heart of the Constitution, and they are also enshrined in the European Union and in the European Convention on Human Rights. Everything is based on the fact that the solution to life is not in the hands of man, and I believe that this line should continue to be strictly maintained. If we take another road, then I think we're going wrong. The Central Parliamentary Group has today submitted a bill proposing that hospice care should be added as an additional form of treatment to the Health Care Act. There is no such possibility today that hospice care is equally high-quality throughout Finland, but when it is added to the Health Care Act, the possibility will be opened that hospice care will develop and that this problem of valuable care for people in the last few days will be completely eliminated. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the debate on the various citizens' initiatives over the last few days has been lively, and this initiative on euthanasia has also gained a great deal of publicity in the media. There has been a very lively and colorful discussion. I hope that this parliamentary debate will continue to be relevant as it has been today. For my part, I certainly do not support this initiative. Human life and human dignity are indivisible and should not be touched by human decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u173	Mr President! Now we really weigh Parliament's ability to weigh the disadvantages and benefits of euthanasia, the arguments for and against. I have listened here to this genuinely interesting debate today and I have come to the conclusion that there are a lot of arguments in favour and against. On the other hand, there is a great deal of appeal to the sympathy of the loved ones and the need to prevent this seemingly unnecessary suffering at the last moments of man. Clearly, the free will of man is in favour. The free will of man. Those who are in favour of this euthanasia are confident that this euthanasia is fairly feasible and that it would be possible for the legislator to lay down the criteria for giving it fair euthanasia from the point of view of the legislator. The respondents have made quite a number of pleas that hospice treatment is already possible, as well as pain relief, and that these are getting better or are already at a certain point. And it is clear that the possibility of hospice treatment and the possibility of pain relief are, in any case, the primary course of action when a person encounters a painful illness. Then has been raised this incline surface argument, i.e. is concerned about the following condition that would happen in such a way that this kind of space would converge, such as the unethical treatment of patients. Human dignity would suffer. The defendants are also probably, or they sound, rather suspicious as to whether it is indeed controllable or enforceable by law. Are we prepared to accept treatment errors? I myself wonder how important this process of thinking is precisely what the individual case is, what would then be at hand in that situation. Is that person young? Is it old? For example, if you think there is a young person who is in severe pain and that pain relief does not work, an incurable illness, does it then think that there may be a miraculous cure? If you think that the possibility of miraculous healing exists, if you think that it is in the order of 1%, then, on the other hand, it seems like a pretty big opportunity if it were a young person. Surely man would naturally be quite inclined to choose that one - percent miraculous cure — of course, if there is one. And that brings us back to the psychological question of whether a suffering person can be able to decide again that he wants to die. Can he deliberately decide that I am now asking for this final solution? In this euthanasia, the disadvantage seems to be that the wrong person will be killed, and under whatever circumstances this happens. Similarly, it seems as if the argument of the incline surface is a disadvantage, namely that euthanasia becomes in some way a conveyor belt item, that is, it is offered to patients, even persuaded to die, that you choose death. Then again, if euthanasia existed, then the benefit would seem to be such a certain idea of strengthening self-determination, self-determination that perhaps any of us can decide and avoid some painful death. However, one thing now seems to be good at least in this debate, namely that this debate seems to lead to Arja Juvonen’s long and hard work in parliamentary work pushing for better hospice care, better pain relief, and all parties are now coming behind Arja Juvosen, Arja Juvosen’s line. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Juvo for her long work on this matter. This debate has been truly thought-provoking. Well, I'm gonna stay here and think about my position and wait for those future expert hearings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u174	Mr President! This debate has called for strict criteria for the citizens' initiative, these 11 criteria, which would allow the euthanasia law to be implemented. In this context, it is worth noting that euthanasia in the Netherlands and Belgium was originally allowed for the same purposes that are now being discussed, but the result, the practical situation is different from what was intended. In these countries, Euthanasia has expanded and become looser, for example for the mentally ill, for those suffering from mere depression, including minors, or so-called involuntary euthanasia, for patients with dementia who are unable to express their own will and decision. In the Netherlands, euthanasia has indeed become an increasingly common cause of death. When the law on euthanasia was enacted in the Netherlands in 2002, the following year 1626 Dutch people died through euthanasia, but in 2015 there were already 5306 cases. At the same time, however, the number of suicides has also increased and, in fact, is amazing, in six years, by as much as 35% in Dutch society. In other words, the possibility of euthanasia has not at least acted as a means of reducing suicide. It may rather have been linked to the culture of death, which Minister Soini spoke about here in his own speech, among other things. In 95 of Helsingin Sanomat I cut out an excellent sharp article by Kalle Könkkölä, former MP and then president of the World Union for the Disabled and I would like to quote it now. He said, "If there is more talk of our right to die than our right to live, we have a problem." He then went on to say: "The right to self-determination is an important point of view, but why is there a difference between the so-called healthy, ill and disabled? We have launched many suicide prevention projects — isn’t a disabled person’s life as valuable as a disabled person’s, and isn’t the desire of a disabled person to kill himself as alarming as a disabled person’s? A real disaster occurred when, in 1971, I contracted pneumonia and woke up in the ICU of Meilahti Hospital, tied to a ventilator. At that time I couldn’t talk, I couldn’t move, and my life seemed impossible on all sides. The pain was great and also my desire to die. At that time, death would really have been a relief. If I could have, I would have called the death squad. However, I was fortunate that the death aid was not known at the time and that one intensive nurse encouraged me to continue living. Fortunately, there was no body or phone number to order death from! Fortunately, people around me were found who supported me and wanted me to move on! The will to live won gradually. It took a while to get depressed, but it's gone." So this is what Kalle Könkkölä wrote. Indeed, belonging to euthanasia, so to speak, in the selection of treatments at its worst, would encourage depressed people to find this solution, and at the same time it would convey an attitude to the value of life for disabled and sick people. When efforts are being made to prevent suicide in general, why not also support the desire of the disabled or the elderly or the sick to the end? This citizens' initiative, which calls for euthanasia, requires that the doctor is convinced that the patient is not suffering from a psychiatric illness that weakens his judgment and that clinical depression should always be treated before the euthanasia decision is taken. But even as a doctor, I wonder how on earth one can be sure that the desire for a seriously ill person’s death does not also arise from depression. Yes, even a seriously ill person is far more typical of that desire to live than of the desire to die. I myself have worked as a doctor in the cancer ward, and I was addressed by the frequency of the very patients who seemed to be close to the limit of life experienced special value for each day and every moment. It seemed that the desire for life grew naturally rather than diminished. I remember one patient who expressed a desire to die and asked the doctor for help, but after surviving depression and despair within a few weeks, her mind changed, and she found the desire to live in those last weeks and months. I believe that the topicalisation of the Euthanasia debate is linked to two social phenomena, on the one hand to the fear of the ability or inability of our healthcare system to care for the dignity of dying patients and, on the other hand, to the general process of changing the human image. I once received a telephone call from a woman who asked if hospice treatment meant that the patient was moved to the department storeroom and not given food or drink. He told of his ill mate, who had been notified in the hospital of the initiation of hospice treatment and who was then transferred to an overcrowding location in the storage room on the same day. This certainly reflects the unfortunate, harsh language of the situation that we still have, even though in recent years hospice care has developed in many ways, for which we can be grateful. At the same time as the population is ageing, our service system changes, institutional care is reduced, long-term care is provided in service dwellings. Of the elderly living in service dwellings, up to two thirds of the elderly move to hospice care at the health centre during the last three months of their lives. The elderly should have the right to die at home or at a permanent place of care if they so wish, and now that this social and health care system is being reformed, care should be taken to ensure that hospice treatment is possible in all units where dying patients or the elderly are being treated. Hospice care at home or in a service housing unit requires 24-hour support. During the time of scarce health resources, doctors are increasingly being held responsible for reducing the cost of treatment, and this is a situation that Mr Vartia, among others, drew attention to here. Yes, we are facing a serious situation in the sense that when we know that about half the cost of health care is incurred in the last six months of people’s lives, we must be careful not to leave the cost of a person’s life and the value of life to be reduced in money. Yes, Finnish society can afford to treat all dying patients and elderly people with dignity, if that's what we want. It's a question of will. When so beautifully spoken of here as hospice care, let us work together to ensure that this also moves into action, that it appears as a change of law, it also appears in resources. Mr President! I would like to reiterate that my proposal was, therefore,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u175	Mr President! I must begin by saying that I support Mr Räsänen's suggestion that this initiative should also be sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion. Mr President! There has been a very moderate debate here today on these ethical issues and also on the right of man to decide on his own life. If there has been some kind of argument, and for some of us I would like to add something to think about. There has been a suspicion that if this euthanasia citizens' initiative were adopted it would not lead to this sliding surface, it would not lead to an abuse of euthanasia such as the Netherlands. However, as legislators, we must understand the fact and the fact that all legislation is evolving and changing in the direction of changing representatives and losing control of governments. That is what we see in every aspect of legislation. For example, this alcohol policy, which will soon be put to the vote again, will be allowed to go to the kiosks for sale. Here just yesterday, on ash Wednesday, a law came into force that totally changed the child’s right to father and mother and also the meaning of marriage between man and woman. Then there has also been talk of a doctor’s freedom of conscience, which has also changed in relation to abortion. They've all started somewhere, but they've come to some sort of conclusion. In the sense that we feel what is happening in Europe and in a state of the United States with regard to the euthanasia law, there is reason to assume that these same threats would also come to Finland sooner or later. Secondly, it has been considered that these abuses should be prevented, that euthanasia should not go too far or be abused. How can this be done without fail? In the Netherlands, for example, where euthanasia was carried out, the euthanasia monitoring body recently dealt with a case in which an elderly woman with dementia had repeated several times during her last days of life that she did not want to die yet. She had been sedated secretly with a medicine put in her coffee. When giving the euthanasia spike, the doctor had to ask the family to hold the opposing woman in place. She's dead. The board noted that the doctor had acted in good faith. He had sincerely believed that death was the best option for a memory - stricken person, especially when the patient had mentioned it years earlier in his desire for treatment. The chairman of the body commented that the case was sent to the court, not because the doctor was being punished, but to clarify the circumstances in which euthanasia should be used. Euthanasia would establish a professorship in Finland that is allowed to kill, but at the same time serious consequences could be imposed on the misuse of this permit. If the punishment were to match the seriousness of the murder, what doctor would dare even make a legal euthanasia? This is the doctor's fear I mentioned before. Mr President! It was also heard that in the Netherlands there was no departure from the starting point for an old man who was tired of living to have euthanasia. However, this is a fact today: last June in the Netherlands, the ministries of social affairs and justice set out their own objectives in this direction. Well, we can also think about how good that hospice treatment is in Holland. In the Netherlands, 12% of people die during palliative sedation, that is, anesthesia. Experts wonder why. Eight percent of cancer sufferers are killed with euthanasia, even if there are other treatments. I do not think this is a good hospice. This has led to the fact that a patient in poor health in the Netherlands does not trust a doctor. The doctor may even kill him against the patient’s will, as has happened in some cases. In that sense, it is no surprise that the older a person is, the less he supports euthanasia. The older a person becomes, he begins to fear that if such legislation is made, it could lead to a result independent of his will. Mr President! There has also been talk here of keeping people alive even artificially in medicine, or so it has been implied. The idea of hospice care is precisely not to prolong or shorten human life. All extra and heavy care will be abandoned. One of the major problems with hospice care is that it will never be passed on. People are so afraid of death that they won't give up hopeless treatments. As a result, misunderstandings and pain are also created for the last meteors of life. In no way does Finnish law prevent good hospice treatment, in which unnecessary measures are abandoned: no strong pain medication is prevented, although it may shorten life. The only thing that's forbidden is killing a patient. Mr President! I would like to highlight one more point of view, which was also mentioned today. As a society, we have succeeded in accepting killing at the origins of life. Now it's time to shorten the end of life. Originally, abortion was accepted if the child was disabled. When a group of people with disabilities was made less valuable than others, it soon came to the conclusion that anyone could be killed in his mother’s womb. Today, in Question Time, we discussed it for a reason of low birth rates. In fact, our low birth rate is due to the fact that more than 90% of abortions are performed on social grounds. Since allowing abortion, we have over 500,000 children killed in Finland in their mother’s womb — that is, more than half a million children have left their lives before it has begun and before they have seen the light of day here on earth. In that sense, I wonder why we lack the age group of 300,000 to 400,000 people who work in this country when the population ages. We ourselves have created the fact that we do not have enough hands and feet to build a society. I fear that we will end up with euthanasia: it will be extended to everyone. The Dutch criteria are an example of this. Mr President! We have also talked about doctors having freedom of conscience. The current citizens' initiative does not guarantee full freedom of conscience. For one thing, a doctor would be obliged to refer the patient to a killer if he did not want to deal with it himself. In addition, some units, such as hospice homes, could, for practical reasons, select doctors who are ready to inject a lethal poison. Freedom of conscience is a big issue; only 15 percent of doctors say they would be willing to kill their own patients. Mr President! We live in a culture of self-centeredness. Your own desire determines what is right and what is wrong. We buy stuff and throw it away. We love it when it feels like it, and we abandon it when we get bored. We decide who has the right to be born into the world. Now we also want to control the final stages of life according to our minds. I dare say that this road does not bring us happiness. Ending your life is different than everyone else. It is an irreversible measure. We do not need poison syringes or death cocktails for hospitals and nursing homes in this country. We need family, friends, love and care. We need motivated and balanced professionals, advanced care and financial resources. This is all we get better and more secure when we close the doors to euthanasia and invest in hospice care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u176	Mr President! Today we are faced with fundamental ethical questions. Deep reflection is healthy, and I would like to thank the citizens' initiative, because without this, we might not have had this debate. I also hope that the citizens' initiative will be treated with dignity in the committees, even though it shares the views of our representatives and goes deep into our values. While studying at the Diakonia University of Applied Sciences, I had an excellent teacher, Matti Keski-Nisula, who worked as a hospital pastor his age, who always stressed the right of people to a good life and to a good death. Even death can be good when hospice and pain relief are in order and the dying person is not left alone in his distress. Death is inevitable for all of us and it is not always a beautiful or fearless event. The dying part is severe if a person goes unwittingly alone or if the conditions are not decent. Yet I believe that as long as there is life, there is hope. According to an old proverb, man eventually has no medicine other than hope. I am not in favour of legalising euthanasia because I do not approve of a deliberate ending of human life. Human dignity is original, absolute and the same for all. Man’s value does not depend on whether he is sick or healthy. Everyone’s life has a purpose to the end, even if we do not accept it as ourselves or as loved ones in that moment. The adversities of our chemistry can often be assessed only after a time distance. Faced with a disease changes the situation in life and its purpose is difficult to find. There are many questions, few answers. But I do not think that mercy death is the right answer to suffering. Mr President! In my opinion, good death does not mean euthanasia, but high-quality hospice care, which is the care and support of a dying person at the end of life, and which is central to the relief of the patient's symptoms and suffering, and which is being done by professional and warm staff. Along with professionals, many trained volunteers provide help — a friend is known in distress. An unknown neighbor may come alongside the dying one as a face of his sorrows, questions, pains, and fears. Hospice care is comprehensive and includes support for family and family members. It is not always possible to stay at home until death, and good hospice care requires a homelike place where there is a possibility of privacy and tranquillity with loved ones or with a hospital pastor, deacon or other person. This isn't gonna work if there's another patient behind the curtain. There is a need for peace near death. Without respectable facilities and working conditions, staff cannot provide high-quality hospice care. Therefore, the development of hospice care requires money, and this is not the point where the Nordic welfare society could save money. According to one professional I appreciate, a hospice - care person needs three kinds of ears: one to hear what a dying person says, another to hear what he does not say, third to hear what the nurse’s innermost commands him to do. This kind of presence does not currently exist for medical staff and doctors in health care, but can only be obtained in Finland by means of hospice services that do not exist in every locality and which can only be reached with a commitment or payment, at a price of approximately EUR 400 per day. Hospice care is a fundamental right for everyone, regardless of age, wealth or place of residence, and that is why we need the hospice care law. In good hospice care, the goal is to have the best life possible for a dying person until the moment of death. I support Mr Päivi Räsänen's proposal to send an initiative not only to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health but also to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. I also hope for the success of the legislative and policy initiatives that have been submitted to improve hospice care. I believe that, when all parliamentary parties clearly have the will to improve hospice care, there should be no obstacles to doing so. But, Mr President, I am not in favour of legalising euthanasia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u177	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens of the citizens' initiative and all the citizens who have signed this initiative. Without this euthanasia initiative, we would not be talking here today about hospice treatment. The Sokka has been pulled out, and now the hospice has arrived in the Parliament for discussion. A wide range of measures have been taken here in this regard, in 2011 and up to now, including the introduction and implementation of the development of hospice legislation, the development of hospice care and the setting of a working group, the establishment of child hospice recommendations, the start and updating of the preparation of the criteria for hospice care and palliative care, the establishment of hospice plans in municipalities, the addition of hospice facilities for the renewal of the social and service structure, the addition of hospice facilities to the required level, the obligations to draw up municipal hospice plans and guidelines, etc. Today's theme has become the creation of legislation on hospice care, and it is a very important theme. Mr President! I personally look at this initiative from the nurse’s point of view. I have spent a very long time in nursing, more than twenty years in various hospitals, and there I have also encountered those patients who have faced its death in the bathroom there and received its treatment there. I have always thought that we still have a lot of work to do in Finland, and the spear tip has been this particular improvement in hospice care. I'm thinking about where that line goes. I have often said that the border between good hospice treatment and euthanasia is very small. I see it in such a way that when a person, a patient, is very sick, very ill, and death is only a matter of time, a question of hours or days, why, at a time when a person is so sick, our system has not made it possible for a person to receive adequate pain medication. What is the amount of medicine that can be given, then talk about morphine or some other medicine? What is the maximum amount of medicine that can be given, that a person is painless? Then, as a result of the drug or whatever happens, a person dies painless and dies, but certainly not in a way that euthanasia has been performed, but it is death after the medication and after its treatment. Then it's understandable. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. I am thinking here that at a time when a person is painful, he must have a sufficient amount of medication already prescribed, that death is painless, because there are also cases that this is not always the case. Sedation has been mentioned here, which is also a very good thing. It is a good thing that it has been raised, but it is not available everywhere. I myself have taken the initiative to introduce this legislation on hospice care, and I would like us to have one. I also support all the initiatives that have been announced here today. There are legal initiatives, there are policy initiatives. They are all for the common good, that is to say, we can join forces and do everything we can to get this thing right: equal access to hospice facilities all over Finland, hospice care for subjective rights, training for staff, nurses for continuing training as well as clear study modules for students in connection with this hospice care. We are completely lacking in child hospice guidelines. We have all heard the story of the Eino boy, among other things, from which the debate has also gone a long way towards what happened to him. Her parents have shared their experiences. We have a lot to improve and a lot to develop, and I hope that these things will move forward. In 2015, the Ombudsman explained that care facilities for the elderly were the very thing he paid attention to missing care staff. There is a clause in the old-age legislation that allows staff to be added to the care unit, for example in the case of hospice care. This should definitely be introduced. I hope that this citizens' initiative will bring about the adoption of legislation on hospice care in Finland. If that is the case and we can improve these things, then you can say that you do not need to support euthanasia. You don't have to be afraid because you know you'll get that care and help. There is, of course, a difference between patients who are long-term ill, for example, when they are young, and hearing their wishes and voices. But one committee will deal with it and then we will see, and hopefully we will be able to move forward with this important theme. That's where we're all together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u178	Mr President! I wanted to take the floor again to raise a few points. Firstly, about the pain treatment that Mrs Juvonen spoke about earlier. The pain clinic professor recently visited Parliament and he said hello that, in fact, a very simple medicine will provide a good pain relief for the majority of patients if the patient’s pain problem arises, if the patient receives appropriate pain medication, if the patient takes the medicines, if the treatment and medication are followed, the potential harm is treated and if the patient’s treatment path is working. If we used to talk about just one word, 'pain', and treated as if massive pain, some pain, then now it is understood that there are different kinds of pain — there is tissue damage, there is inflammation pain, there is nerve damage pain, there is internal pain, there is bone pain — and there may be different types of effective medications for all of these. But what is notable also in pain and experience, so fear and anxiety as part of pain is a very important factor, because fear and anxiety increase pain and also make it more difficult to relieve it if it is not understood that in many patients there is also fear in the background. Patients may fear being left alone, being dependent on others, fear not getting help, even fearing medication or uncontrollable pain. Patients can be anxious about uncertainty, conflicting information, unresolved issues, unresolved issues with relatives, close friends. They may be distressed by the survival of those who are left behind. So there are many human things, human factors. It takes a person close to a human being to talk about the fears and anxieties of a patient. On the other hand, we, who have been able to work with patients for years, know how much relief it is when this fear is relieved and the anxiety is relieved, and we are also prepared to move across the border. We have many, many different options for pain treatment today. I know that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set up a working group in the past, and this working group has recently, on the 24th, given ministers a proposal for pain relief, specifying the basic level, the advanced level and the demanding level, and there are really, really many options for demanding, difficult pain. So when we talk about good hospice care, we really have the know-how and know-how to treat even severe pain today — all we have to do is get it to all patients throughout Finland. Similarly, we have the means to alleviate many other forms of suffering. Earlier in my speech from that place, I mentioned the need not only for this hospice law to ensure these things, but I think that even before more euthanasia should be discussed — well, today it has been discussed and come to a rather unanimous conclusion that hospice and hospice law are needed — and I think it is also necessary to clarify the question of freedom of conscience in the Finnish country. A little over a year ago, in this Chamber, my own citizens' initiative was discussed, with a motion for a resolution: 'The right of health care staff to refuse to end life on the basis of ethical or religious convictions'. It did not say that staff should be entitled to a statutory right to refuse abortion, and when this citizens' initiative was being considered, it was precisely the words I wanted to say 'from the end of life', because then the situation was that in Finland abortion is legal, under certain conditions it is guaranteed by law, and, as has been said, a few decades ago, no one could suspect that the situation in Finland would turn to the fact that doctors of conviction, nurses, who had to be taken into account when abortion was involved, could also lose jobs and that, even in the main professional sector, a doctor of women's diseases and childbirth, there would not even be a specialisation if they did not agree to take one single measure in the broad professional field. No one could have imagined it. And in Brussels, at the heart of the European Union, in the European Parliament, where I attended a seminar, the question was: is it really the case in Finland that if a midwife refuses to take care of abortions, she can also be denied maternity care? This is a reality in Finland. In other words, there is also a need for this statutory right, freedom of conscience in Finland. Life is a gift, life is holy. More appreciation of life is needed, more humanity and intimacy are needed in this country. Of course, from my professional point of view, I think that there are fewer specific guidelines for this platform, but somehow I think that if someone has listened to this debate now in a place that is in severe pain or has not received sufficient help, then we really also have the Health Gate and Pain Management House online. There is a consultation and pain line that serves on weekdays 9-12 every day. There are doctors and patients who belong to the medical staff, and the number 0503696707 serves as a painline every day on weekdays 9-12. So if someone really is desperate for suffering, there's help there. Then I'd like to take a few more minutes from Pirkanmaa Nursing Home. It is the first nursing home in Finland and the first in the Nordic countries, it was founded in 88 C.E., and if anyone doubts how patients approaching death are well treated, I recommend visiting it. "There's still a lot of work to be done, but there's still a lot of work Good hospice treatment should be a right for everyone, and when good hospice care is not sufficiently known, it has created room for fear. Good hospice care supports one’s own life - control, and it has another person on the side. In many cases, fears have subsided and hopes of speeding up death have been abandoned when the last days of human hospice have been perceived to be worth living. As said, for this kind of existential anxiety, which describes the pain of giving up life and loved ones, drugs do not bring relief. Instead, help can be found in multiprofessional skills, in the ability to be present, to hear and listen to a dying person and to be near him. As our archaeologist Risto Pelkonen has also said, many dying people also want to discuss eternity on the other side of the border, and that too should be encouraged by nursing staff. Pirkanmaa Nursing home is available for ward care, but from there it is also available for home care. That's where the patient gets his own nurse. The team includes a doctor, a social worker, a physiotherapist and a priest. The aim is to create a good and safe feeling for the patient, good symptomatic treatment and comprehensive support for the patient and his/her loved ones. There it is also possible to receive training through Pirkanmaa Nursing Home, and there are many types of voluntary activities there. Under the leadership of its own director, about 100 volunteers work alongside the staff there. Involvement of loved ones improves the patient’s quality of life and safety, and it is important to support close relatives, their survival during the patient’s illness and after the patient’s death. We have plenty of opportunities, we develop them, but we do not open up opportunities in Finland for actively leaving
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u179	Mr President! Every year, on the Independence Day of Finland, Private Lehto commits suicide in an intolerable situation of anxiety and pain. This is visible to all Finns, with Yle showing on television in an established fashion of Edvin Laine's Unknown Soldier. When you watch that movie, Lehdo's act is one shocking detail in the big picture. It is part of the cruelty, inhumanity and moderation of war. However, the suicide of a leaf does not allow for moralisation. Few, if any, judge Lehdo. As a filmer, he would have wished Lehdo could be saved and lived. His suicide is sad, and it may be beyond understanding, but it does not deserve moral judgment. There are situations where the decision to leave this life is beyond the reach of our moral judgments. Each one of us is the highest subject and authority of our own pain. No one has the right to say to another, It is your duty to suffer. Therefore no one has the right to say to another, It is your duty to suffer. The euthanasia initiative now under discussion has only a thin link to the suicide of the Unknown Soldier Lehdo. The point of connection is the decision to end life in a situation of unbearable pain and distress where there is no prospect of lifesaving help. The euthanasia proposal submitted to Parliament calls for a number of details to be clarified before the initiative is resolved. In addition to intolerable physical pain, the initiative also highlights intolerable psychological pain and suffering as a basis for euthanasia. At least I think it has to be asked whether a person's judgment and ability to make a decision on a euthanasia request is as clear in a mental pain situation as a physical one. Is the objective assessment of mental pain, which these two doctors have to do, more difficult than physical pain when doctors assess whether there is a basis for euthanasia? Is the acceptance of psychological pain a basis for entering euthanasia on the incline surface where a decision on euthanasia would eventually be made on an ever lighter basis? Can mental and physical pain be compared when asking for a reason for ending an individual’s life at his request? Mr President! Otherwise, a good initiative will seek to define the criteria for euthanasia and the measure itself in detail and the requirements for documenting all activities. It is also a good thing to have a special supervisory body and a duty to report. In fact, in this regard, the initiative can even be seen as an improvement in the current situation, in which suicide assistance has not been criminalised and there is no rule as to who, and in what ways, can assist in committing suicide and how such a measure should be documented or monitored. I note that Mr Päivi Räsänen has, in 2005, written question 80/2005, asked the then government and the Minister about this. As Minister of Justice, Koskinen has answered that question. In many countries, suicide aid has been criminalised, but we are in an unregulated situation. I believe that this issue should be addressed in spite of the fact that suicide is not criminalised and I do not wish it to be criminalised. That's what we've gotten rid of, and that's a good thing. Unregulated situations in the case of suicide assistance allow for random situations where inadequate consideration can lead to unintended deaths. I believe that the right line of initiative is that a doctor, contrary to his conscience, is not obliged to perform euthanasia. As I said in my previous speech, the Euthanasia initiative — and it is valuable in it — aims to bring relief to those terminally ill whose intolerable pain cannot be treated in any other way, but to make high-quality hospice care and the treatment of pain available to everyone to eliminate the need for euthanasia. In launching this debate and hopefully also in committing Parliament and the Government to this initiative, it has been important to speed up the development of hospice services and also legislation, hopefully. Mr President! In a very sensitive way, however, I personally would not be prepared to allow the patient's life to be terminated as a task for doctors. I cannot support such a euthanasia initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u180	Mr President! Mr Kantola dealt with important issues here. If we look at the legislation of Finland at the moment, we actually have criminal law that the killing of a person at his own firm request is punishable, but assistance in suicide is not, in principle, punishable, it has not been criminalised separately, but we do not have any case law in practice. However, a doctor would act in violation of both the Health Care Act and the ethical principles of health care if he assisted his patient in committing suicide. I would like to say that it is legal and possible in Holland for both a doctor to assist in suicide and euthanasia. However, it is remarkable that almost all patients in the Netherlands who wish to have a death sentence choose euthanasia rather than assisted suicide: only about 5% of these patients ask for assisted suicide. This is remarkable in the sense that, at the same time, even in Holland, this practice is justified precisely by the patient's autonomy, that why do they not want to do so, as it were. Does self - killing in some way seem more right if it becomes a medical procedure?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u181	Mr President! As has been said in many speeches in this Chamber, it is good that this hospice law should now be taken forward by many parliamentary groups and individual initiatives, and in that sense we must only hope that this debate will at least benefit. These latest speeches, which have reflected on assisted suicide and euthanasia, and also on various case-laws between different countries, show quite well why the proposal of that beginning, Mr Räsänen, that this should also be put to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, seems even more justified. Similarly, the protection of the Constitution for the lives of every human being is also very important, the fact that these committees also give their own opinion. In this Chamber, a number of representatives have come in during the debate to say that, for example, they did not know that there is such a sliding surface in the Netherlands, that in Belgium the euthanasia of minors has been legalised, that in Holland, with the consent of parents, small babies can be killed. So, in a way, this sliding surface concept has been quite unknown to many. In that sense, it is hoped that this debate has now opened the eyes of many, too, to see what the final games are about. Interestingly, too, when I read in an article that a robot could perform such euthanasia. When I have thrown it into someone’s head that what if it were a robot and did not need another person to be involved in this matter, the answer has usually been horrified. In that sense, I wonder whether these people do not think that it is equally horrifying for another person to have to kill another person.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u182	Mr President! At the heart of this evening’s debate, quite rightly, has been the patient who is suffering and helping the patient so that those moments before death are as valuable and as good as possible for man. At the same time, however, we must remember the other side of this euthanasia event, the doctor who was well appealed to by Mrs Essayah. The euthanasia proponents want to, and this euthanasia initiative wants to, as it were, to pass on that responsibility for ending life to doctors. If a patient who claims his sovereignty does not want to kill himself himself, why is it imagined that doctors would want to do so? Doctors are human beings, and the domination of death is a very heavy matter to bear, and it does affect both the doctor's professional identity and his personal personality. Nor will death become any more natural or easier if it is disguised as a medical procedure. The American philosopher Carl Elliott has suggested in an ironic article that the philosophers should be trained to carry out euthanasia because it is the philosophers who often strongly argue for euthanasia, while the medical community in general, both in Finland and in the world, opposes it. In fact, killing does not require medical training, it does not require academic training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-02-ps-16.u183	Mr President! Mr Räsänen's speech was excellent and has just highlighted the way in which it is thought that this medicisation of the production of death would make it something like an ethically different event. I must say that the speeches made in this Chamber, too, have been quite confusing, on condition that the supporters of this Euthanasia initiative are in favour of giving this freedom of conscience. It is nothing more than a moment when, here in the great Chamber of Parliament, we voted specifically to give the medical staff freedom of conscience. Here, some incorrectly said that it was an abortion. It was a question of ending a person’s life. It was just as much about the beginning as it was about the end. And when a large number of parliamentarians here saw the matter not being given this freedom of conscience, it somehow seems very strange that, in this situation, it is believed that this freedom would be granted and, as is also the case then, that the ethical problem would not, as it were, arise when this freedom of conscience was brought into existence. I am thinking of the kind of contradictions, internal lines of action that would arise, and whether there would be any special compensation for those who take up this task, and other things that seem to me to be painful, even to go and think about. I very much hope that those who are still uncertain about this position, colleagues here, will listen to the experts, specifically the Medical Union, the World Medical Association, and see how, to say it, the policies of professional ethics and deep expertise are in favour of the value of human life right up to that natural end. So, "no" to euthanasia.
