ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 24/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The matter was put on the table at the previous plenary session on 14 December 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u2	Mr President! Booze is a drink of wise men. The Alcohol Act is being reformed. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The harmful effects of alcohol must be eliminated in two ways: firstly, by promoting a smarter and more responsible drinking culture and, secondly, by strengthening measures to prevent and effectively address the harm caused by alcohol consumption. Vice-President Hannakaisa Heikkinen has very well presented the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and here I agree with the concern that this report has been delayed by a few percent, per mille or quite strongly. This is certainly part of Parliament's historical information systems. But now that we are moving forward, I will continue my speech and say that one of the key changes in the current state of the government's proposal is that all alcoholic beverages containing up to 5.5% alcohol will be sold in the retail trade in the future. But since this part of the government's proposal remained in the minority in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we have objected to the objective of a moderate increase in volume agreed unanimously by the government. In other words, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, except that it is intended to implement that increase in volume by volume. [SusannaRoom call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u9	All right, now we're taking Minister Saarikko, five minutes. After that, it's a debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u10	Mr President! In Parliament, we have been discussing a subject throughout the autumn, which we are familiar with in the past. Alcohol is part of the everyday life and celebration of Finns in good and bad. We know the good things, but the overall reform of the alcohol law has been discussed in depth here in six committees in total and it is now up to Parliament to decide for one reason. Our decision-makers are responsible for promoting the health of the population and for reducing the harm caused by alcohol to users, to other people and to society as a whole. The statistics on chronic alcohol diseases, drunken driving statistics, violence statistics, child protection statistics and various messages from social welfare and health care fields reveal a sad language. Reducing all these disadvantages and problems is the purpose of the alcohol law before the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, with this reform too, we maintain a strongly regulated alcohol culture. Of course, the law is not the only way to reduce social problems, nor is alcohol problems completely eliminated in the world. It is a question of reducing problems by the means by which we can do so and of using the means we have. The most effective is when several means are in place at the same time: legislation, taxation, prevention of substance abuse, early intervention in issues such as Finnish working life, and support for social and health care services on a broad front. According to Article 1 of the new alcohol law, the purpose of the law — which is always the most important sentence of the law — is therefore, as is the case today, to prevent the harm caused by alcohol. To this end, the sale of alcohol is still based on the fact that the Parliament authorises Alko Oy, which is owned by the State, to manage the retail sale of certain strong alcoholic beverages by an individual right. The explanatory statement states that this way of selling alcoholic beverages is less harmful than selling all alcoholic beverages, for example, in all grocery stores, as is the case in many European countries. The Alcohol Act also continues to be based on a business authorisation system, which provides authorisation authorities for the production, sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages and allows them to monitor their activities. Where, for example, the Alcohol Act provides for sales and drinks — despite the lack of standards — and the fact that no alcoholic beverages are allowed to be sold to a minor or intoxicated, these provisions can best be monitored when the authorities have the necessary information on sellers and also the means to deal with potential infringements. Mr President! In the last few days, distance sales have been upsetting. The Act therefore provides that Alko is the only seller of certain alcoholic beverages in Finland and that the sale of other alcoholic beverages is controlled by a licensing system. It is entirely logical that foreign trades should be subject to the same rules if they wish to sell alcoholic beverages to Finland. I would like to raise three points about distance selling. The articles relating to distance sales of the new alcohol law are practically the same as those of the current alcohol law. The justification for the law is stricter than before. The application of the laws is a matter for the courts, and the Helsinki Court of Appeal has decided in spring 2017, i.e. this year, that the Estonian seller of alcoholic beverages, who sold his beer, wine and strong drinks to Finnish consumers and arranged for the transport of beverages, was guilty — according to the law — of unauthorised sales and alcohol offences. The provisions are thus still the same in law as they were at the time of that decision, and the final judgment on this case will be handed down by the Supreme Court in due course. We also have the ruling of the European Court of Justice that Finland may prohibit the above mentioned foreign trade in alcohol. That judgment left some room for manoeuvre for the court of appeal in Helsinki, i.e. the case was not finally decided in Luxembourg. Nevertheless, the sentence means that I think it is wrong to say that the principle of free movement in the EU would prevent us from taking a decision in Parliament as such. That is why I say that it is also a fact that the provisions need to be clarified. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also pointed this out and asked for clarification, but there was no impetus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u15	We now have the opportunity to ask for a reply of 1 minute. They'll begin with Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u16	Mr President! I must admit that when a position has been asked very much in advance about the alcohol law, I have wanted to study the expert hearings carefully and genuinely hear what the experts want to say to us. In public, the debate has largely taken place around the coming percentage, but this is a much bigger whole. What has been a little difficult for me all along is to understand the contradictions in the government's proposal. While the whole alcohol law is being introduced from the point of view of public health and the purpose of the alcohol law is to protect our citizens, especially the disadvantaged, from alcohol harm, the actual articles of the reform are doing something quite different and have now also been raised in these presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u17	Mr President! The committee deserves our thanks for having managed to get this law before Christmas to come here for first reading. It is also good that the committee has been sympathetic in its report, for the most part, to this new and good alcohol law. On the other hand, Mr President, on quite a number of points, the committee has included some very specific lines in its report. Of course, the most visible is the issue of the volume of retail sales, where the solution agreed by the government parties has been radically changed. The committee also seems to regard the liberalisation of the way of manufacture as not such an essential factor in adding to the disadvantages if the percentage limit remains at present — instead, if the volume limit rises, marketing for women makes these cocktails dangerous in quite another way. An interesting logic in itself, to which I would really like some clarification from the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u18	Mr President! The Alcohol Act is one of the last laws that violate the existing constitution. Why? Because it has been difficult for the various governments to adopt this legislation. This is a whole which has focused all its attention on one chapter — 0.8 — and another on whether or not Alko's monopoly will remain. After this law, Alko's monopoly will remain, period. I admit that this law has been made more of a business policy than a health policy. But the fact that this has been done does not make this law bad. There are a large number of things here that, for example, aim to increase the consumption of alcohol under controlled conditions. I am very much in favour of the impetus of the committee, and there are even articles for that, if necessary. The Ministry of the Interior regulates the reduction of drunkenness in public places. This is more industrial policy than health policy, but this is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u19	Mr President! Minister, you explained this matter of distance selling. If I order this law when it comes into force in this form from any EU country, do I commit a crime? Does the citizen know, on the basis of this law, whether or not he is guilty of a crime?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u24	Mr President! I personally agree with this report in that it is not about to free these 5.5% alcohol products from start-ups to grocery stores. Originally, there has been a justification for this proposal, as I understand it, for this passenger import from Estonia. According to recent statistics, this passenger imports have currently collapsed to the lowest level in ten years as a result of tax increases in Estonia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u27	Mr President! I do want to reproach the government for the urgency of dealing with this alcohol law. This is not a budget law, and there is no rush in this way. You have the political will to get this through quickly for some reason. My parliamentary career is relatively short, but I dare say that it is quite unheard of that the committee did not have the opportunity to obtain all the information from the experts we would have liked to have had on the matter before us. This is certainly not good legislation. Then I would have liked to ask the Minister: where did this clause in the government draft law prohibiting distance selling go? It is quite unclear at the moment about this whole draft law, and both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs have drawn attention to this in their opinions and asked for clarification of the articles. Now the government leaves jurisdiction entirely to the courts and the Supreme Court, even though we are
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u28	Mr President! With regard to the legal protection of citizens, it is very problematic that the explanatory statement and the articles of this law are incompatible. The problem relates to distance selling, which is not prohibited in the articles, even though it is stated in the explanatory memorandum of the law. The arguments and the law are unclear in relation to each other, and I do not think that this in any way meets the criteria for good lawmaking. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should have clarified this situation. This was the opposition's position in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but the members of the government parties in the committee did not want to clarify the section as required by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The report calls for an pending case, the solution of which, in the view of the government parties, should therefore be to determine how alcohol will be sold in Finland in the future. This is not good legislation, because in Finland the legislator decides what is punishable and what is not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u30	Mr President! The proposed Alcohol Act has been designed to reduce the consumption of alcoholic substances while at the same time preventing the harm to society caused by them. It is also good to reduce red tape, and it is good to dismantle unnecessary standards and shift consumption from homes to restaurants and controlled environments. Good goals, but what does the government do? The government is proposing an increase in alcohol sales by one per cent for grocery stores, and at the same time these sales sites would increase from 350 to more than 5000 and consumption would increase by 6 per cent and move back to the home sofas. Where is logic and responsibility?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u31	Mr President! It is up to the legislator to legislate in such a way as to be precise and not to leave a point for the Court to interpret. As we read this opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the Constitutional Committee states that 'if the intention is to criminalise distance selling, it should be provided for by a penalty rule which complies with the principle of legality of Article 8 of the Constitution'. However, it seems that the relationship between the government has led to this ban on distance selling being deliberately excluded from this proposal. I have to say that this is really worrying. Is this government going to be in history as the government that will destroy Alko's monopoly on Finland, will drive Alko down from Finland? In my opinion, this is really irresponsible. I find it disconcerting that such a proposal has been brought into the Chamber with such strength as yours in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has not been put into effect in committee and has not been included in the article which appears to have fallen somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u32	Mr President! A few weeks ago, in this Chamber, over 1,000 social workers were discussed in Question Time about the petition, in which they expressed their concerns about the limited resources and excessive number of clients in child protection. We are now dealing with a draft law, the impact assessment of which states that the disadvantages experienced by children and families are increasing and deepening, thereby increasing the need and cost of child protection measures. Is that really what we want in this Chamber in the interests of the alcohol industry? The Federation of Mother and Child Homes and Shelters, for example, stated in its own opinion that the bill was against the best interests of the child. Mr President! For me, politics is less caring. It should be remembered that alcohol abuse does not only hit alcohol users, it also affects bystanders, such as family members and working communities to the greatest extent. That is why I am not in favour of raising the percentage limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u33	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done a thorough job and rightly points out that the percentage remains unchanged. After all, there are sound public health and also economic criteria for this line, on which experts are very much in agreement. However, confusion has now been caused by the fire and unwillingness of the government parties to clarify, for example, this issue of distance selling. There is this so-called lost section, which has been included in a version of the government and which no one here seems to be taking responsibility for. And this decision can have very unpredictable and far-reaching consequences. I very much hope that this decision will not be taken by accident in this Parliament. There is the impression that some government parties seem to have a great deal of difficulty in deciding whether or not a monopoly is reasonable, despite the fact that you yourself have recorded the Minutes, that you are in favour of maintaining the monopoly. Try to decide how you feel about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u34	Mr President! I must say straight away that this bill, which is now under discussion, does not break the exclusive right of Alko to sell stronger alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u37	Mr President! Clearly, this government proposal will weaken the position of children in the families affected by alcohol. What worries me most is that we do not want to talk here about the suffering of children in this legislation. As such, this percentage is not relevant, but many other points in this legislation. Mr President! I would have raised one point, for example, that in this legislation it is also proposed to increase the right to drink alcohol so that a 16-year-old can serve alcohol. Is this the government's new way of creating summer jobs for those students who are looking for jobs, for example, in Ostrobothnia from where these ideas came from? In my opinion, a 16-year-old is not at a mature age to serve alcohol until 4:00 a.m. in a place where drunk people talk about it and this. There are such weak performances here, and I wonder why these were not taken away when you dealt with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u38	Mr President! Now we have in our hands a proposal which is an obvious compromise, but there is also a lot of good in it. Licensing bureaucracy will be reduced and the restriction on fermentation will be lifted. On the other hand, from the point of view of beer culture, for example, I think that the proposal is quite a torso. An increase of less than 1 percentage point in alcohol, debating whether it is worth it — we will see it tomorrow, but I will support it myself if necessary. Alcohol policy is a challenging sport. We have to balance between freedoms on the one hand and health promotion on the other, and we are all aware that alcohol is harmful in this society. On the other hand, this is also balanced by other interests. I would assume that it would be worthwhile to limit alcohol harm by means of effective but selective measures, such as taxation on drinking, effective and strict age limits, early intervention in health care, and hopefully future cooperation with neighbouring countries, including taxation. Nevertheless, I believe that this proposal can be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u39	Mr President! The purpose of the Alcohol Act is to promote public health and to protect children. This is also the responsibility of our constitution. I would now like to ask the representatives of the Assembly what kind of mandate you are using to promote the health and well-being of citizens if, for example, these percentages are being raised in every kiosk. The second point I would like to make is that this house should be the highest law-making body in the country, and how can you leave this house with a bill that contradicts the articles and arguments? Our Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the Committee on Legal Affairs, has made a clear statement in which this contradiction has been raised. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also made it compulsory to eliminate the contradiction or, if not, to justify it. None of these measures have been taken. How do you argue that such a vague bill is going to come out of the Supreme Legislative Body? It really doesn't take much daylight.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u40	Mr President! It is often called for the decision-making process to be listened to and taken into account by experts. Now we representatives really have a chance to do it. Experts have widely stated that increasing the strength of alcohol sold in the grocery trade is detrimental to public health and the economy. Alcohol consumption and thus alcohol harm are expected to increase. It is harmful to health and incurs administrative costs. It also causes social disadvantages and lost hours. The positive effects for trade and the alcohol industry are small compared to the disadvantages. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the experts and listen to our consciences and make a provision that Alko's monopoly will not be compromised, because its public health price would be very expensive. Self-motivated urgency is not the reason for unclear regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u41	Mr President! In my opinion, this government proposal contains many positive aspects and features relating to the dismantling of red tape on restaurant use, which tend to direct alcohol consumption to those restaurants and controlled conditions. But then this includes yes, you can say, even with regard to the objective of the law, contradictory proposals, and of course the central point is that it is proposed here to increase that volume to 5.5% in retail trade. In this respect, I think the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is excellent. It contains a very good analysis of the problems that this entails. Personally, I would see that it would be very important for every representative to be able to listen to both his heart and his senses when he decides to do so. For me, the heart says that no more alcohol deaths and problems in this Finland, the country of origin, and reason says that no more additional alcohol costs. That is why I support the committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u42	Mr President! I am not in favour of raising the percentage limit, just as the committee has said. We must promote the health of the population in this Chamber, just as the Constitution requires of us. I think it makes sense to listen to experts. For example, Arja Rimpelä, a professor of public health at the University of Tampere, has said to the committee, among other things: facilitating access to alcohol increases alcohol consumption. Alcohol consumption and drunken drinking among minors have decreased in Finland since the beginning of the millennium. The decline has now come to a halt, and a change in the law would lead to an increase in alcohol consumption. Rimpelä also explains in his opinion that the implementation of the government proposal would increase the differences in health and well-being between educational groups in alcohol consumption
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u43	Mr President! I will say a few words about this mainly from the point of view of the industry. In my opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy made a good statement when it also looked at the issue of alcohol from the point of view of industry. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there were some really good reforms — such as the tourism industry, for example, a reform that does not always have to be made sure in advance where, for example, a German tourist can be offered Jägermeister or something like that in Lapland. It sounds kind of funny if the inspectors are all over Lapland all the time watching where we're going. But there were also interesting, a little bad things. For example, we suggested that the artisan brewery had more places where it could have been sold: if there were more manufacturing sites, there could have been direct sales at all manufacturing sites. Now it's one attempt. The second question, which is interesting, is the issue of food.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u44	Mr President! As you listen to this discussion, after this alcohol law the question of freedom of conscience begins to be confused most now, when the centre here at the mouth of many representatives is of the opinion that they have freedom of conscience, and the assembly similarly feels that this kind of thing has not been agreed upon. The question remains, is it not the case that, in this case too, the assembly is taking the centre like a pint of pint? It looks a little like it. But now that the government is willing to take this alcohol law forward as it is, and it is assumed that there will also be many drawbacks, we will be waiting for the resource needs to be met as well, both in social and health care and, for example, in the police sector. It is expected that in the next draft amending budget the government will then bring the appropriations to 170 additional police officers. It's 10 to 15 million. It would be kind of weird, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u45	Mr President! Those who have propagonated this increase in the percentage of retail sales of alcohol say that 0.8% is low. In reality, it is just as Mr Buska said: it is a 17% increase in the current limit. This means that the amount of alcohol that you can now get by drinking 6 bottles will then, in future, be able to drink 5 bottles of the same size. This is a big increase, and I am very pleased that the committee has taken a responsible line and is in favour of maintaining this percentage. Very good speeches have been heard here on behalf of it, for example by Mr Puska. I am very surprised that the coalition, which talks so much about the sustainability gap and the balance of public finances, is so eager to promote a model from which all experts say that it will reduce our ability to finance the welfare state and increase
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u46	And at this stage of the debate, I would like to give the following speeches: Östman, Puss, Sarkomaa and Heinäluoma. Then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u47	Mr President! Article 1 of the Alcohol Act contains a clear expression: "the purpose of the Alcohol Act is to reduce the consumption of alcoholic substances by restricting and controlling" — by restricting and monitoring. Well, I too am delighted that the committee has maintained that the percentage limit would be maintained and not set to increase, as some representatives of the government parties have advocated. The Coalition Party asserts that the government does not intend to break the Alko monopoly and that it will not break. Now remember, on December 14, this was claimed. It will break down, and this disaster will be at least as big as the social reform if there is no reform of the social reform. To allow distance selling would mean a parallel retail channel for monopoly products and eventually the dismantling of Alko's monopoly. Remember this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u48	Mr President! The clear position of the centre on distance selling is that distance selling is prohibited and this has been confirmed by EU law. Representative for Kankaanniemi: Distinguish distance sales and distance purchases. Distance selling is that foreign stores sell strong beverages to Finland and transport them to Finland and, if allowed, Finnish stores should also be allowed to do so. Instead, distance shopping is that we can all go abroad, buy there, carry the goods, or otherwise arrange the matter. This is the difference. At a late stage, however, the committee did not want to start turning the paragraphs, but we required the Ministry to clarify the matter, and I am very pleased that the Minister promised that soon we would start to draw up some more clarifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u49	Mr President! The opposition here has argued that distance sales are unclear. I think it is quite clear that the opposition is right...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u50	Mr President! It must be said, in this way of dealing with the matter, that this is quite exceptional in relation to the way in which we normally deal with matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u55	Minister Saarikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u56	Mr President! I hope that the time you have given me is enough, and I would like to ask that I go through this matter of distance selling in depth, so that the current state of affairs and the state of the government's will are sufficiently clear, because I recognise great feelings and a lot of confusion and my actual assessment of the subject is also that the concerns of the representatives are quite right, but at the same time I also say that the preparation must be done with care. I would also like to encourage Parliament to look beyond the point that everything now seems complicated and obviously controversial when it comes to listening to the debate, because we can be proud of the fact that the reform of the alcohol law as a whole after many parliamentary years is finally at this point and that we are going to have a change to a law that is, in some respects, even unconstitutional — not in relation to these issues which have been discussed here today, but which is unhelpably obsolete. But then, Mr President, a few comments on distance selling: The first question is that we in Parliament have given the Alko exclusive distribution of certain alcoholic beverages. And when Finnish shops are not allowed to compete with Alko — let's say the sale of liqueur or whiskey — it is quite logical that even foreign shops cannot market and sell their own beverages in Finland. Secondly, the issue is that certain alcoholic beverages — i.e. those with a lower percentage — may be authorised for retail sale. It is therefore logical that foreign trades should not sell the same alcoholic beverages to Finland without the said authorisation. But what does EU law say about all this? When it comes to the right of foreign traders, the EU comes along. We have the ruling of the European Court of Justice that Finland may prohibit the above mentioned foreign trade in alcohol. The judgment left its own room for manoeuvre for the court of the Helsinki Court of Appeal, which was not decided directly there in due course. However, in my opinion, the verdict clearly means that it would be wrong to claim that a principle of free movement in the EU would prevent us from deciding on this matter. And what is the current state? There is a great deal of argument here that it cannot be known with this law. This same unclear situation has continued in Finland since 1995, and in previous times it has not become so much of a concern to Parliament as to what some entrepreneur might do in this regard. The fact is that the law does not say anything about distance selling or online sales of alcoholic beverages. In any event, the application of the laws is a matter for the Court of Justice, and the Helsinki Court of Appeal’s ruling currently provides the best answer: on the basis of the current provisions of the Alcohol Act, the Court of Appeal has decided that the seller of alcoholic beverages, who sold his beer, wines and spirits from abroad to Finns, was guilty of unauthorised sales and of an alcohol offence — and I stress: the seller, not the buyer. We are talking about distance selling and banning it. Mr President! What, then, does the government’s proposal for this distance sales say? The overall reform of the Alcohol Act took into account the above-mentioned rulings of the EU Court of Justice and the Helsinki Court of Appeal, according to which Finland may prohibit the distance selling of alcoholic beverages because it is an EU Member State. And we also note in this explanatory statement of the law that distance selling has been regarded as prohibited on the basis of the current provisions. So why is this matter unclear, ladies and gentlemen? Although the courts have been able to apply the existing provisions, they remain open to interpretation. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs drew attention to, and that is why I have committed myself to setting up a working group immediately early in the year to clarify these articles, and that is the government's common will, as well as the preservation of the Alko monopoly in Finland, and these two issues are closely linked. Why is it not?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u57	By way of exception, ladies and gentlemen, because of the nature of the matter, I gave the Minister an opportunity to exceed by no less than one minute the time allocated to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u58	Mr President! When selling alcohol at a distance, the seller should pay taxes, but we know that 95% of the sellers do not pay. The unclear situation feeds on the possibility of tax evasion, and even more worryingly, endangers Alko's position and responsible alcohol policy. I now hope that you, Minister Saarikko, will say clearly what would prevent the provision of a clause which clearly prohibits distance selling in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u61	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the Minister for that explanation, but I have to say here that the fact is that it was only just over a week ago that this matter came to the committee, after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was clarified by an additional hearing with the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the advice of the committee, which led the members of the committee to identify this problem of distance selling and Alko's monopoly. The committee then unanimously decided to consult Mr Alko, we received a written opinion on Mr Alko, and then we recognized that this was a real problem. We would have liked to have heard more experts so that we could resolve this issue, but the board members did not accept it, which is why the hearing was closed. But you have an article that I now have in this presentation tomorrow, which I will present to Parliament tomorrow, and that is a section built up by the government itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u63	Mr President! Rarely have there been such clear expert opinions on a draft law as on this. Social and health care experts throughout and the safety authorities have clearly expressed not only their serious concerns but also their clear opposition to this introduction of stronger drinks into grocery stores. This should be very clear after the expert reports. We tend to take the expert statements seriously. In expert opinions, trade representatives and representatives of the brewing industry have expressed different views, but their interest is to increase sales and consumption. This is a very serious matter from a public health point of view. We have a responsibility here. It does, but it does.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u64	Mr President! I see it a little differently myself. Alcohol consumption is falling all the time, and in my opinion it is linked to culture and, in particular, to culture of habit. It is clear from the behaviour of Parliament's representatives that alcohol consumption has decreased significantly. That's a great thing. Many young people today are afraid of getting drunk, and that is a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u67	Mr President! The Minister took the floor and told us his views on this distance selling and said that distance selling would continue to be prohibited. But that is not the case. When we look at this opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the opinion does say that there is no concrete ban on distance selling. Distance selling is not penalised, and then it cannot be prohibited either. I am still asking you, Minister, when you have not answered the question where it disappeared to Article 30 from your draft law, which states that the cross-border sale of alcoholic beverages and the import of such sales into Finland is prohibited. Now, in this Chamber, the representatives of the city centre from many mouths repeat that distance sales are still banned. Why can't you bring this article to us in Parliament so that Parliament and the legislator can decide on this clause so that we can all be clear about the situation of distance selling and that Alko's monopoly will continue to exist?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u68	Mr President! In the preparation of this legislative reform, it has been assumed that bringing four cells and other stronger alcohol products into shops would be an important and necessary reform. Such a reform would mean expanding sales of stronger alcoholic beverages from a few hundred. From the start to more than 5000 points of sale. I ask, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how it contributes to the aim of the Alcohol Act to reduce alcohol consumption and the harm caused by alcohol. I don't understand. I venture to estimate that almost everyone in the Finnish family, close circle, neighbor or working community suffers from the harm of alcohol. A mother who was close to her said to me that if this bill went through, it would be heaven on earth for one, for others even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u69	Mr President! There seems to be nothing more clear about this distance selling than that it is really unclear. A representative of one government party said that distance selling was forbidden and a representative of another government party said that it was allowed. The third party representative, for its part, wishes to add a record of the preservation of Alko's monopoly. The legislation on distance selling is now unclear and it is not clear from this proposal what its consequences will be, and I insist that it be clarified in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u70	Mr President! I have had time to complete the basic course of public and administrative law, and I must say that when you read this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this issue is very clear. It clearly states that it is not possible to impose a penalty on an issue not governed by the law. This law does not prohibit distance selling of alcohol. It will not be banned, and then the situation will arise that there will be a huge number of entrepreneurs who are going to try this. I do not understand at all why this issue has not been clarified during the two years of preparation, but we are here late at night with a small group to discuss what this means. This is irresponsible behaviour. If any one of Parliament’s authority is chafed, then this night session and the elephants of this magnitude, which are unresolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u71	Mr President! In order to ensure that the message from Parliament is clear that we want to safeguard the exclusive distribution of alcoholic beverages above the legal threshold at Alko, I propose the following statement: "The Government will clarify the rules on distance selling taking into account the requirements of Union law and the future solution of the KKO in the case of Visnawood. In the preparation under the responsibility of the STM, in addition to the EU legal framework, account should be taken in particular of the fact that solutions for distance selling must not jeopardise the maintenance of the exclusive right to retail sales of alcoholic beverages beyond the limits laid down by law or the equality of Finnish industry with its foreign competitors. The preparation must also take account of the requirements for the smooth recovery of excise duties." This is the kind of statement I propose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u72	Mr President! When distance selling is not prohibited, it is allowed, or do you have a third way, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u77	Mr President! In the same way we are thinking about this distance selling, how much tax revenue can be lost here if this distance selling is allowed. Then when you start to think about this government line all the time, when we have had a management register law and have had the Act of Procurement stakeholder regulations, which have all been watered down, they have been loosened all the time, then you just wake up to such a question that has happened in this way that the government goes to the line that starts like this possible grey economy market to create here in Finland. That is what this is all about, getting tax revenue here in Finland. We've got to get these over here and get a piece of the law for this remote sale, not any statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u78	Mr President! This is a bigger question than anything else now as to whether or not Alko’s exclusive right to these 4.7 percentage points stronger drinks will remain. It is now quite clear from the statement made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that when there is no ban on this sale from abroad in the law, this will in practice lead to the situation of being allowed to do so, and it presents a very high risk that this whole system of exclusive rights will disappear from here. It is very destructive from the point of view of alcohol policy, it is disastrous from the point of view of the national economy. It produces social and health costs, it produces police costs. It is very difficult for me, Minister Saarikko, to understand when there is a complete article, this Article 30, why it cannot be included in this law and remove the problem that exists at the moment. Now accept that this is really a dangerous issue that needs to be dealt with once and for all. Even a few weeks may lead to the wrong solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u79	Mr President! Mr Heikkinen made a proposal for a statement, and if it is possible in the debate, I support this proposal by Mr Heikkinen. If it is not possible, then I will come back to that later in my actual speech. At the same time, I would like to thank Minister Saarikko for having taken this matter at a distance and taken it seriously and has promised to clarify its various aspects carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u80	Ladies and gentlemen! At least I was somewhat unclear whether Mr Heikkinen read the statement in committee or whether he made a proposal for this debate. No statement can be made in the reply. If so, it shall not be considered. Perhaps Mr Heikkinen will clarify what he has just said? Maybe it's in everyone's interest if he tells us what he meant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u81	Mr President! Only in order to confirm the message, I said that I am going to give it to you in the course of the speech, and I am also going to get support for it then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u82	And it's time for second reading. — Reply, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u83	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Saarikko. He's standing here alone behind the show, and it's almost worth a round of applause. Where are the other ministers? I'll give you a confession. This alcohol law seems to be a small step towards the assembly, but a major step towards the deterioration of public health. It has been said here that this is more industrial policy than public health policy. Why this order? I also wonder when this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been raised here whether it is going to happen that the committee has ignored the point put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that this whole issue should perhaps not have been brought into the Chamber at all until this relationship has been resolved. I do not know whether the committee asked for advice here on how the Council of Presidents dealt with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u84	Mr President! This debate has now raised more questions than answers to this law. It is clear that the justification of the law and the government's proposal are in great conflict with each other, and the committee's report is, at least, a little more concerned with this aspect of public health. In fact, this government proposal leaves very strongly only on the terms of business and, above all, on the terms of large breweries and foreign breweries, not even on the terms of those domestic small breweries. But then it also seems that, in addition to the contradiction between the arguments and the legal provisions, the centre and the assembly seem to have different proposals, because others here speak very strongly about the preservation of this distance selling and Alko's monopoly and others have not wanted a section on it. I think it would have been a good idea to take a time-out for this law, to bring it once this matter of distance selling has been resolved and clear articles have been made, and the committee too would have heard the relevant experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u85	Mr President! I myself wonder why this matter of distance selling has not been resolved in advance. Why do we bring the matter to Parliament in such small hours, in the evening, from the beginning of the night, raw and distance selling as lantrics, when is it? Bad government. I would even say, after a couple of years of government proposals have been allowed to be followed, that yes. The Sipilä government is about to go down in history as a government of cow trades. Here the two main government parties are sending a very contradictory message to the Chamber, and in this connection I am hating the Minister for the courage that you alone are defending such a circus. This is where representative Jonah Räsänen asked about police resources. Now 170 police officers are being made drunk drivers and the already limited number of police officers is being further reduced. Are you going to bring in an increase of between EUR 10 and 15 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u86	Mr President! No one in this Chamber disputes the fact that alcohol has health problems, but the logic that has been put forward here is that now that from 4.7 to 5.5, all the drinkers in 4.7 are going to drink 5.5, that is not true, but, as Mr Estilä said, we have such a culture... At least I can give you a personal experience. Well, I'm sure I'll stick to drinking the middle beer, because it's got a taste for what I like. It's what motivates you to drink and buy it, not that percentage of alcohol, but the taste — if the percentage of alcohol were decisive, we'd drink the whole bunch here and then be there — and that's what's important now. The second point is that of distance selling, but where are the critics of undeclared sales? Which one of you is interested in selling on that street? I think this debate would be far more important than thinking about distance selling. But it's in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u87	Mr. Speaker! I don't know who he's representing. Eestilä previously tried to convince us that alcohol is not a problem when it is not a matter of course even in Parliament. Cheap alcohol, let alone free, is sooner or later a problem, we know it, at least those who have lived a glass of childhood. Mr President! I noticed this when I read this report that there are responsible decision-makers in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as there are also those in this Chamber today, because six members of the committee had made an addition to the question of access to medical staff at the age of 16 to add a sentence such as this, that the age of 16 must be 'the person who has completed vocational training in the field of accommodation and nutrition or who is studying in that training'. Now, as a frozen person, I can say that this is a very good addition, and I hope, members of the board, when I have not been involved in preparing for this, that this can be adopted tomorrow. If this is not accepted, at least set the time until those children can be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u88	Mr President! In the same way, I acknowledge to the Minister that he alone is here to defend and give you, Mr opposition, a good report on the speed with which this distance selling is being cleared up. Can we just move on a little bit now and then? This has become quite clear at the moment. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u89	Mr President! Yes, there have been justifiable questions from the opposition. However, no answers have been received to questions such as: Why did the committee not have the time it wanted to clarify these ambiguities that have arisen here? There has been no answer as to why the solution to this issue, this question of distance selling, must be postponed somewhere, when we have the law open here, we have a section in which we can deal with this matter. There has not been an answer to what has already disappeared from the pre-emptive section on the government's own documents, nor has there been an answer to why a large number of representatives of the government parties are willing to take a huge risk that this distance selling will be left unaccounted for by the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u90	Mr President! Separate from this law, we in that tax section in the Committee on Finance have dealt with the amendment of the alcohol tax law. That is EUR 100 million to reduce the tax burden on labour. It also means curbing alcohol consumption in Finland. In Finland, we have dismantled major red tape issues, such as business time law, many, many major reforms. I wonder why we will not be able to reform alcohol law for decades, even though it is partly unconstitutional. Yes, culture in Finland has changed significantly. We have gone towards a European culture. We have to get back to this hour. That is why I support this government proposal. It's important to take it forward. — Of course, we need to find out about this distance. It is good that it is properly prepared and brought here to Parliament in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u91	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissila, we are in the process of reforming this law. There is a consensus on a large part of its content. But then there are, in my opinion, questions such as horse-sized but elephant-sized, in which the majority of Parliament threatens to go against the position of the Constitutional Committee and leaves open the question of whether or not distance selling is permissible. You can't do this with a statement. It does not help to use forceful speeches here, that this is forbidden and that the monopoly is maintained and so on, when the Constitutional Committee says that if it is prohibited and punishable, then there must be a legal clause. The law here now, Mr Ala-Nissila, is being applied for,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u92	Mr President! Indeed, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that, if distance selling is to be criminalised, as the explanatory statement suggests, a penal provision should be included in the law, and if the articles are not changed, this should be justified. Well, the committee's report is now trying to give some kind of justification, but in my opinion it is not enough, and I am referring here also to the argument put forward by Minister Saariko. It is somewhat incorrect and confusing to refer to the so-called Visna Tree case, which is different from distance selling. This case of Visna Tree does not solve the criminality of distance selling online. After all, it was more about retail sales, a licence to do so. That is why I find it very regrettable that we are in the hands of a bill which the citizen does not know whether his behaviour has criminal consequences or not. Under no circumstances can this be regarded as good legislation. We have a Constitution in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u93	Mr President! In a few good speeches, there has been talk of culture and its change in terms of alcohol. In this respect, it has gone for the better, and I hope that this development will continue. In this connection, I would like to highlight the idea that when great parties are held there is usually also a drink available. From the point of view of the treatment of guests, it is and would be tactful to have access to a high-quality non-alcoholic drink, such as wine or beer. Some may come by car, some may not be able to drink alcohol at the time, for example because of the use of medicines or some other reason. In this respect, I hope for an improvement in the culture of habit. It's very marginalizing to pick up that warm Pommac from 10 to 15 meters away when others enjoy quality wine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u94	Mr President! The contradiction between actions and speeches is enormous in this law. We are talking here about distance selling, which is one thing. You say that distance selling is prohibited, but yet the Constitutional Committee insists on that. In other words, it is not possible to determine from the explanatory statement what is not in the section. It's obvious. The harmful effects of alcohol are worrying. Good speeches have been made here about the growing need for child protection, health problems, but at the same time this law is based on an increase in alcohol consumption. It's there in a government proposal. The law is based on an increase in alcohol consumption, and then we are talking here about how worried we are that additional resources are needed to protect children and that the police need additional resources. Well, when we know that the police need more resources, still those resources are not reserved. What about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u95	Mr President! For my part, I have been thinking about this issue and somewhat surprised to hear it. I will not go to my colleagues to criticise or praise, I respect each of you, but my view on this is that the report is a good one, and I have been in favour for a long time and my whole life of the fact that the current alcohol legislation currently in force is sufficient. The fact that we are dismantling these bureaucrats for entrepreneurs and their activities is an extremely good thing. But when there is a Finnish alcohol culture in Finland, I do not think it is a bad thing. By world standards, if we go to Islamic countries, how does alcohol policy work, take an example from there, or from the United States, where everything is free?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u98	Mr President! At the beginning of this explanatory statement it is stated that the proposed alcohol law is intended to reduce the consumption of alcoholic beverages, and when you read the report of this committee you will see that virtually every paragraph of the report is so that the committee does not believe that this is going to happen, but that all the difficult consequences of alcohol consumption will only get worse. If you read this report, this result will be quite objective — as a former journalist, I say so. And it is impossible that this report condemns this very clearly. Well, when we look at a few more details, there is, for example, an indirect cost of at least 1 billion — police, hospitals, childcare, all of these. So there are very serious questions here. I think that there are good things here, the promotion of business and so on, they must be done. They are up-to-date and needy. I'm not going to go into detail about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u99	Mr President! This is very appropriate after Mr Salolainen has spoken. This evening’s debate offers many news, but one such thing is that the assembly has become Parliament’s leading disciplinary party. I do not remember that in the big room the chairman of a group has so vehemently stressed: no free hands, no free hands! I have experienced a long career in such a way that alcohol, which is close to the health issue, religious issues and nuclear issues are such that the representatives have essentially free hands. I mean, why are they so hard on the pipes, the co-op? For me, this issue opens up for the future and well-being of children and young people. Okay, if the culture of habit is improving, let’s not put a new pot in the nest so that stronger alcohol products are offered to 5,000 stores. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u100	Mr President! I am well aware of the concerns about the increasing availability of alcohol from more places of sale, but we must also understand how, as Mr Eestilä has said here, the alcohol culture is changing, and we cannot see this world in Turmiolan Tomm's way anymore. [Left: The police will see!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u102	Mr President! This is a wonderful debate in this House and it is a statement of Parliament's authority if, therefore, the Constitutional Committee, in which good work has been done, quotes the report as follows: "The Constitutional Committee states that if the intention is to criminalise distance selling, it should be provided for by a penalty rule which complies with the principle of legality of Article 8 of the Constitution." Now we're gonna ask you where it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u105	Mr President! After Mr Estilä's speech, I have no choice but to ask: is it a percentage trick to worry about the needs of children and young people and families? In my opinion, it is very condescending and categorically said. We have thousands and thousands of children and young people, abused, abused, fed, and left undrinked because either one of the parents or both parents has fallen into alcohol abuse so badly that there is absolutely no rats in the family, no healthy growth conditions of any kind can be arranged for children. This is shown in the statistics, this is shown in custody statistics and many others. Every year, children and also women die, women over 20, as a victim of intimate relationships, domestic violence. You might want to talk to the social workers and the police about this flip side of the coin, what it means to drink too much alcohol. I am very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u106	Mr President! I cannot directly say what Mrs Kiuru is referring to with this talk about the sale of cows. It has also been made very clear in public that if this 5,5 % government proposal of volume were to fall by Parliament's decision, there would be no tax increase. That has been made very clear. If, of course, 5.5 goes through, the government is very pleased that Parliament accepts the fine proposal that the government has made, and that it will improve Finnish business and, in my opinion — and this is my personal opinion of course — bring Finnish alcohol culture a little closer to the culture that is in Central Europe. It is not so much a matter of focusing on the percentage of alcohol that is actually being consumed, but of how the Finnish alcohol culture develops in terms of making young people more and more of them reduce alcohol consumption, even stop it altogether.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u107	Mr President! This is a controversial proposal from a controversial government, but even worse, this is dangerous and harmful. If I were a foreign alcoholic or winegrower, at the moment when the jerk swerves to accept this law, I would immediately acquire Finnish customers, send many packages of goods and make large investments. If Finland would try to ban this distance selling, and I would sue the state, and you know what, I would do an excellent job. I would appeal to the law not to specifically prohibit distance selling, and I would appeal to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is here on page 14. So, ladies and gentlemen, Alko's monopoly has been broken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u110	Mr President! In this debate, reference has been made to middle beer and beer A in this Chamber and beyond. Now we must remember that, after the new law, there will be no such thing. It is said that someone chooses middle beer, someone chooses A beer, and refers to the fact that culture is changing in the European direction. What is European culture? There will be mass type beer, which is something between 5.2 and 5.3, and it will be the type beer, and it will increase the average consumption by about 15%. That is the European situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u111	Mr President! I'm going to spell it out for you. I'm going to make this remote sale. Now that Members of the Government say that this distance selling is prohibited because the current state of affairs and these current articles, as it were, remain and even now distance selling is prohibited, that is not true, because there is currently nothing in the legislation on distance selling. But now, following the debate on this matter, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that there is no concrete ban, just as Mrs Harakka has just said. In fact, I would have liked to ask the Minister now if the Minister is going to be able to speak out: if now this distance sale is allowed after this procedure and those foreign companies start to offer alcohol here in Finland to us Finns and this distance sales is going to blow up in the hands of us, how likely is it that we can still prevent this distance sales afterwards and thus preserve Alko's monopoly?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u113	At this stage in the debate, the replies from Mr Olli-Son Parviainen, Mr Tanus and Mr Heikkinen, and then the Minister, let us now say a four-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u114	Mr President! This debate on distance selling certainly shows very clearly that this is a very challenging issue. In the environment in which we operate — we operate in the EU world, we operate in the world of the digital platform economy, we operate in the world of cross-border online commerce — we have to balance, and I really hope that this issue will be resolved as soon as possible. Of course, in an optimal situation, at this point, when the law is brought before us, this matter would have been resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u117	Mr President! In the committee we heard a huge number of experts, and also a large number of statements and views came from the consultation round on the legal provisions of this government’s proposal — all except those relating to distance selling. By the time the proposal went to the consultation, there was a clear section on distance sales of alcoholic beverages and an indication that imports into Finland related to that sale are prohibited. Therefore, all the experts who gave their opinion during the consultation and all the experts we heard in the committee were in the view that there is a clear section that prevents this distance selling. And I would like to ask: when it comes to distance selling, when it comes to a matter that has so much to discuss here, how does a bill come out of this house, in which no expert has taken a stand on distance selling — except one, in writing, when we were authorised and Alko gave his written opinion on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u118	Mr President! The number of passenger imports is clearly overestimated. Beer imported from Estonia accounts for about 6 per cent of Finland's total consumption of beer. In particular, the significant increases in the alcohol tax on beer and other brewery products carried out by Estonia in the course of this year have significantly reduced passenger imports. In the summer, excise duty was thus increased by 70%, and this is not being cancelled in Estonia. In particular, it has been estimated that imports of beer by travellers are likely to decrease by at least one quarter before the entry into force of this reform of the Alcohol Act. Estonia's tax decisions are said to mean that the planned increase in the availability of alcoholic beverages will no longer reduce passenger imports in relative terms more than those already achieved by Estonia's tax increases. According to a report received in connection with the Government's own alcohol tax proposal, passenger imports in October have fallen to 7 million litres, the lowest since 2007.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u119	Before the Minister, I will give the floor to Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u120	Mr President! I am truly amazed at what I hear here. This is where Mr Puska said just now that if, for example, the percentage limit was raised, then only this high-percent beer will be sold in Finnish stores and not medium beer at all. Is this also in the paper we haven't seen, which came out of the oven today? — And we have to decide on this. I am surprised, Minister, that you also say that this is a complex issue — at this point I am talking about distance selling. It's not complicated. It's unprepared. It's completely unprepared. How can you expect Parliament to adopt a law that has not been prepared? If you yourself say that this has not been prepared, this must be prepared after the law has been passed. Yes, now that we're doing the law, we're going to go like a butt ahead of a tree if we do the law this way. That after that, the law is settled and prepared when the law is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u121	And now, Minister, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u122	Mr President! I would like to make a few comments on the rather tough and intense questions that you, as Minister of State and Government, are putting here. First of all, I would like to comment on the part that relates to a joint decision by the entire government. We fully agree with the view of the large majority in this House that this law will not be specified in this section. And clearly in this Chamber there is also a broad-based majority across government and opposition boundaries that the clear majority of Parliament wants to maintain Alko's monopoly. And if one day someone would like to make a different decision about this, hopefully he will do so in some other way than slip the Finnish system into other careers or into the arms of foreign tax revenues. The position of the government is unambiguous. The maintenance of the monopoly status of the Alko is a clear position shared by this government. Why, then, do we still want to take time to prepare and clarify this matter? Firstly, because in the government's own draft law we came to that conclusion and that, now, perhaps tomorrow's opposition proposal will not have a sufficiently precise definition of this distance selling. As this debate has shown, it is also very complicated, especially because the Finnish system is very unique in the EU context, with which we are inevitably dealing with legislation in a situation related to the sale of alcohol outside Finland's borders. The definition, which is sufficiently clear, needs both sellers and buyers, and when it is defined, the application of tax legislation will inevitably become part of this debate and will also The possibilities for customs control so that realistically, even if prohibited, that ban can be genuinely enforced. And these are demanding preparations. In other words, I repeat that if, on the basis of the articles of the current government's proposals, which are the same in this motion, the court of Appeal has unanimously condemned the distance seller as guilty of a serious crime, then I think it is quite a strong signal that action is not currently allowed. In Mrs Haraka's speech, we are referring to the fact that, if you were an entrepreneur, you would act immediately. I think it would be risky when the verdict is just under way, an unfinished trial at the highest courts and a government-promised amendment of the law is being prepared. In other words, the situation is not particularly clear, as Mrs Harakka has said here. Then, to Mr Alanko-Kahiluodo, you say, in the spring ruling I mentioned, that it is not directly related to distance selling. Yes, the pages of that judgment specifically refer to distance selling in this Visnawood judgment, it takes a position on it. And I may venture to say that my own position on this issue must have become clear as to how I feel it would be good to do this, but as a responsible legislator, I want to make good legislation, which will also stand up to the EU review. Although this Chamber has not brought the other side of the matter to the fore to the greatest extent, we know that there are also many people outside this Chamber who think otherwise about distance selling and also about the interpretation of the law, and that is why this must be done with skill. For this reason, from the point of view of customs, control and taxation, this working group will be specifically set up to implement this issue. And once we have asked why the government has not brought it into this context, I would refer to demanding preparation and political disagreements on this issue. And as far as Mr Salolainen's question is concerned, which you directly raised, whether this alcohol law will reduce or increase harm and increase consumption, this bill in the government's own impact assessment will clearly increase alcohol consumption and thus increase the harm from the point of view of substance abuse, not from the point of view of the release of the norm, but from this volume strength. In any speech, neither the government nor I, as the minister responsible for this whole, have once claimed anything else about this fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u124	Ladies and gentlemen! There has now been a rather long debate on this, and there is a long list of speakers who have been asked to speak, which will certainly leave us with the broad arguments that are also needed for this debate. For this reason, I hope that the answers to this controversial section or to the missing section, which everyone wishes to call it, will be those that would now be requested, and then, after a brief debate, we will move on to this list of speakers with many excellent speeches to be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u125	Mr President! The minister said that the distance seller who would sue the Finnish State would risk it. He did not say that this entrepreneur would lose to the Finnish State when the Finnish State has clear legislation that this activity is punishable. As an entrepreneur, I would appeal to the Finnish Constitution and to the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee, where no one is to be held guilty of a crime or sentenced to punishment on the basis of an act which is not punishable by law at the time of the act. This is on page 14 of this committee's report, which is, of course, part of this legislation. So now that there is a clear legal uncertainty about the situation that is going on and which actually tempts us to see that distance selling is allowed because it is not prohibited, the simple question is: when you want to take this enormous risk and put Alko at risk, what are you doing to justify this enormous rush in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u126	Mr President! Mr Harakka went through this very well from a legal point of view. I've handled hundreds of cases in the courts, court courts, dozens of cases, some cases in the Supreme Court during my own career. If I were to think about this situation, which has now arisen following the opinion of this Constitutional Committee in the current legal situation, it would urge me, as a lawyer for the client, to say that it is now time to apply for the highest court order if there is no longer a time for appeal. In other words, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs substantially alters this existing legal situation already at the moment. The risk you are now going to take here, if you let this go without this paragraph, is that distance sales will spread during the time that this is being investigated in Finland, and that is what I fear from the perspective of Alko's exclusive rights. This is a big deal, this is really a mega-class thing, an elephant thing, as Mr Heinäluoma said in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u127	Mr President! We have a law in force which, as long as we have been in the EU, has been the law in force on the basis of which there is a case. And although Mrs Harakka has said that it is not the same thing, I have read them in the explanatory statement of the Visna Tree case in question, and it is quite clear there, even to a very simple person, that this matter of distance selling has also been dealt with in that context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u132	Mr President! The fundamental point here is this change, this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states that there must be a criminal offence under the Constitution in order to ban this activity and to include the punishment in it. It has now been stated in the Constitution and will affect this existing legal situation as well. As I said just now, if I were a lawyer for this Visnapu or for the parties to these disputes, then I would say that we are now seeking the dissolution of the judgment, if it is a final decision or a court order, because the Constitutional Committee has interpreted our existing legal situation. In practice, this makes it possible to do so now — once Minister Saarikko has now said that it will be cleared up quickly — that during its rapid investigation, whether it is months or six months or six months or what the timetable is, this market will open up to those foreigners in a different way. It leads to such legal disputes, may lead to significant claims for damages from the point of view of investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u133	Mr President! At the very least, there is a huge risk that this is going to happen, as Mr Rinne described, and I think that the realisation of this risk is very likely. And now that we all know that there is a clear article in the Ministry that has been prepared to ban distance selling, the clearest way to eliminate this risk would be to add this pre-written section to this law at the plenary session. In the end, I am surprised that, when the interests of the business community justify this, this is also a huge risk for Finnish industry, not to mention what improving the availability of alcohol and the possible increase in percentages then means for the Finnish people's ability to work, for lost working days, all of which are also very important, economically important things for the industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u134	I will give the floor to the representatives of Tanus and Rehn-Kivi, and if the Minister still wishes to speak for one minute, he would be given the floor. And then we would like to move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u135	Mr President! Experts and commentators also gave their opinions and views in committee, assuming that distance selling is clearly prohibited. I appreciate the Minister's view and promise that he will set up a working group and clarify this right from the beginning of the year. Would it not make sense, then, to move this legislative package forward to the spring side, because this really is not a matter of urgency? Finland has lived with the current alcohol law for years and decades. So that this working group set up by the Minister at the beginning of the year can also clarify the situation for the government parties, would we not then continue to discuss this legislative package on the spring side? This is my proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u136	Before giving the floor to Mr Rehn-Kive, I would like to say that, when, until now, Mr Rehn-Kivi has spoken in this debate, 73 replies have been made after Mr Sarkomaa's presentation, then 73 replies before the first speech could be sufficient and then followed by Mr Rehn-Kive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u137	Mr President! I thank Minister Saarikko for his honest speech on this matter. But I ask the House: is it the case that we have to wait here for court rulings, or is this the place where we should adopt unambiguously interpretable laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u138	And now, Minister, 1 minute off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u139	Mr President! I think that this debate has demonstrated in a great way that Finland has a strong desire and a strong will to defend Alko's monopoly. There has been concern about whether this parliamentary debate has created a risk of its survival, and it is the Minister of Responsibility's statement that this extremely complex issue, which also has an EU dimension, must be fully resolved. And, at the very least, between the lines, if not directly, it has become clear how seriously I myself, as Alko's Minister of Ownership, also regard the maintenance of that system, and the smallest arguments are not fiscal or public health issues. Many people have come to the floor: if I were an entrepreneur, if I were a lawyer, if I were a judge. What is particularly important here is that we are not judges; we are legislators.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u140	If we open the debate, then I will allow the speeches to be made in different parts of this Chamber. When so many of you demand it, I will now open the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u141	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, I am pleased that you say that you want to retain Alko's exclusive right to this entity for 4.7% stronger drinks. But, Minister Saarikko, while you have made that speech, you have proved that, when this work of inquiry starts, this statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has taken place during the parliamentary debate and which is clearly linked to the existing legal situation, will lead to you at the same time making it possible for this whole matter to spread. The exclusive right of the entire Alko is spreading. And as Mr Harakka has said here, for example, now, if a foreigner listens to this debate and the outcome is that this proposal will be adopted without that ban, it will in practice lead to us being in trouble for this whole thing. That is why, Minister Saarikko, I would ask you to think very carefully now before this matter comes to an end in Parliament, if you could give us a little more time and see to it that this ban on distance selling is brought into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u142	Mr President! It is good that you, Minister, openly stated that the ban on distance selling, this section, was behind political disagreements and it is not difficult to guess which party has been holding this up. And now that you have set up a working group, I really hope that those political differences will not be there again to raise this point of view. I am also surprised that this comprehensive reform of the alcohol law has been prepared for many years and that this section has been prepared there by competent officials of the Ministry under official responsibility, which prevents it from being adopted at this reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u143	Mr President! I share the same concern and regret about the fact that the situation is unclear in this whole Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u146	Mr President! This includes two elements which endanger Alko's monopoly. Remote sales are one of them. It takes the market away from Alko so much that Alko will slide down and get into trouble, unprofitable. The second is that this proposal is justified by industrial policy. 24 years ago I was a minister and negotiated the terms of Finland's membership of the EU in this regard, and we were only entitled to maintain the retail monopoly on public health grounds. Under no circumstances does the EU accept a monopoly on economic policy, and this is now going to become a monopoly on economic policy, as many have said here, and that is dangerous. In other words, I claim that with this legislation Alko's monopoly has been lost for five years — and the decline is high.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u147	Mr President! First, the law is passed and then we begin to find out what has been done here. I agree with the large number of parliamentarians who have today wondered, first of all, what the hell is the rush here, why this unclear situation is wanted to continue, and why these articles have not been written or incorporated into this final law, where they have disappeared along the way. And we would really like to have answers to these questions. And all you can do is ask what the Prime Minister's Party centre is afraid of when, in such a hurry, it is in such an unclear situation, it is running through this law and going forward. Don't you think it's time-out time? Let us do these studies properly, let us go through this thoroughly and then see how laws are laid down so that the child does not go with the bathwater.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u148	Mr President! On this distance selling, the Legal Committee heard a number of lawyers, and every one of them said that this matter of distance selling is unclear in law and that it should be clarified there. Their message was also that this case of Visna tree cannot lead to this, but that the legislator must make a decision. And the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights unanimously stated that this issue of distance selling must be clarified in the law, including the government parties and the co-chairman of the committee in the vanguard. After all, it has a major economic impact and a public health impact. A big, important question, and I do not understand why this is being rushed, when even the articles are ready and, on the basis of the reports, they could be put there very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u149	Mr President! Representative to Sarkomaa: When he took the floor there and regretted the situation with regard to this alcohol law, I must say that, in connection with this committee debate, I am surprised at the fact that he has spoken. It was certainly not clear to any of us in the committee who is directing this debate on the alcohol law in Parliament and in the committee, it is clearly a coalition. And as far as, for example, we tried to change these matters, the Coalition Party reminded us many times that this was agreed in the Government Programme, according to the book we go, and no changes are made. In other words, it did not result in a genuine examination of this law as a whole, nor in a genuine expert consultation with that Article 32.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u150	Mr President! I feel it is my duty to respond to Mr Elo's misconception: Representative Elo, welcome to Korso, Finland's Paris. There are more than ten liquor restaurants and there has been a long and intense practice of this kind of drinking culture in Paris, and that alcohol consumption is not quite as high as it is in Central Europe, but what do you think, when this legislation is adopted, is it then?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u152	Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' guidance to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was that the role of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as well as the role of Parliament's plenary session, should be to clarify this legal situation in respect of distance selling during the parliamentary procedure. Indeed, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was that, when it is banned in the explanatory statement, but the article is missing, anyone can interpret that, in other words, distance selling is allowed. In our Parliament, the only existing interpretation is that distance sales in Finland are allowed. Even after this law has been discussed, it is the message that goes out of Parliament, that is, the interpretation and position of the Constitutional Committee. It follows, therefore, that the government is consciously risking Alko's monopoly with this bill. I wonder how little you value the positions of the Constitutional Committee and the work of the Constitutional Committee. That's what I'm most surprised about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to suggest that, when everyone has, at least once, asked to speak, it should be taken from me on this list, either those who have already spoken or those who have been challenged here, as follows: Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Heikkinen, Mr Vartia, Mr Räsänen, Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u154	Mr President! However, this has been a valuable debate, although unfortunately late in the evening — and I am not in favour of this evening’s administration — because it has become clear: The undisputed fact is that by excluding distance selling orders from the articles, a situation arises where distance marketing permits are no longer needed. All you have to do is put it on the market outside Finland's borders and go sell it here, as the Constitutional Committee says. The second thing that has become clear is that there is a convention here on the baton. But when you use the baton, the honourable assembly, there will also be responsibility and heavy responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u159	Mr President! There are a lot of people here who seem to be looking for a drinking culture in Central and South Europe. I believe that the other Nordic countries are a much more relevant benchmark for Finland. In Sweden, the percentage of alcoholic beverages sold in grocery stores is 3.5. In Norway, it's the same as ours, 4.7 percent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u164	Mr President! The starting point in the negotiations was that Alko's monopoly would remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u171	Mr President! I will not make this debate any easier by raising this issue. Let us think about it from the consumer's point of view. Distance selling is ordering drinks online and a foreign operator delivers them to my home door. The distance purchase is that I order beverages from abroad and a separate courier delivers these drinks to my doorstep — from the consumer’s point of view the exact same operation. Both excise duty and value added tax are paid in the distance purchase to the country of origin and then VAT is paid to Finland. In distance sales, VAT would be paid only to Finland. The problem with remote purchasing is that it is contrary to EU laws because double taxation is prohibited. That is why, according to EU laws, we should allow distance selling. I understand this problem, which is linked to it, but in the future it will still be possible to buy at a distance from the consumer: drinks can be ordered from abroad, provided that they are delivered to the door by an outside courier. And in this case, I would also like us to consider the role of the consumer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u172	Mr President! It has become very clear since this debate that it does not get any better to wonder, which is why the government has had little difficulty with legislation other than this alcohol legislation alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u179	I have also spoken to this debate, in addition to Elo, which has already been mentioned, on behalf of Mr Filatov, Mr Essayah and Mr Kymäläinen. And to see everyone who's asked...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u180	Mr President! Representative Niikko, if Korso in Vantaa is already called Paris in Finland, good. If it is called the Paris of Finland after this good government performance, the better. I have no objection to the fact that an area like Korso could be Paris in Finland. It doesn't sound bad to me. It sounds to me like exactly the kind of Central European development that should have gone in that direction. As far as the security, social issues that you mentioned are concerned, I welcome the fact that the committee is proposing that there should be one vigilante at every place of sale for every hundred customers starting after 1.30 p.m. But the smart thing is that these people can also do other than supervisory tasks. Safety is taken into account, social considerations are taken into account, but in this sensible way the economic activity is also taken into account. I was a little surprised by Mr Heikkinen's comparison of the Nordic countries. I know that in the Faroe Islands, Denmark, alcohol can only be bought at a local airport. Is this the direction Finland should go now? No way. We'll find our own model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u181	And Mr. Filatov here, 92 of this debut. I give the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u182	Let's make a speech in this debate. — It seems to me that, when you have listened to this debate, you have listened to Minister Risikko in the past and now to Minister Saarikko in the past, that this has happened so that both in the law and in this report which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has produced, people who think that alcohol policy is a social and health policy, but those who think that alcohol policy is a commercial and industrial policy have received the articles. And as far as this distance selling is concerned, I am very surprised that the Minister calls for the ban on distance selling within the framework of our current legislation, but after we adopt this law, we have a law on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said that it is not prohibited when it is not prohibited by the article. Then you say that you will quickly prepare a new bill for us to resolve this problem, and yet you say that it cannot be resolved here because there are political differences. I find it very difficult to trust that those political differences will disappear after the jerk has snapped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u183	Mr President! Indeed, at the beginning of his speech, the minister said that he did not want to bring in this piece of legislation in haste, and that is why he called for more time. But then a little later the real reason came up: the government has a political disagreement here. In fact, at the end of this debate, it has emerged from Mrs Wallinheim's speech that there is a Danish model in which there is no alcohol monopoly. In that sense, it has been a very enlightening debate that it has become clear to us that the coalition is pushing for Alko's monopoly on Finland to fall, and that will fall when we have such a moment that we do not have legislation that prohibits distance selling. Just as colleagues have said here, I am sure that during the Christmas season, when the rest of us here are at rest, the one who is going to try this issue will come, because if there is no other way, he will receive such good compensation from this case. In that sense, this hall is ready to come to work on Christmas holidays, so that we can
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u184	Mr. Speaker! We have a really good week until Christmas, and we are living in Parliament at one of the most important stages of the year. Among other things, we are making a draft budget, yet we still have budget laws in the committees to prepare, and now you are producing this alcohol legislation in such a terrible hurry. You have been arguing about it for two years, preparing it, and now the rest of us should solve this in 24 hours. It was not appropriate for you to give us time even to discuss the 200-page report in the morning. This is not a credit to the rapporteurs of the law, not to the government, not to the debate in this Chamber and, in particular, to the work being done in the committees. Yes, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health are very much overtaken. Since this is not a budget law, it would not be so busy to bring it here
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u185	And last comment, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Jaskari said here a long time ago that this debate is embarrassing. Yes, it is, but I think this conversation is almost immoral. I think it is immoral to make laws on citizens in this way. This is not the first time that the government wants to take difficult matters forward in a very questionable way and on a timetable without being allowed to get to grips with them properly. When I have not been to these committees and when I have listened to this debate, this issue is completely open and there are so many things that are completely unclear. I wonder why this cannot be moved forward. I do not believe that the public is satisfied with this approach in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u187	To the list of speakers, Mrs Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u188	Mr President! As I said earlier today, the committee deserves our thanks for having managed to get this law here before Christmas for its first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u195	Mr President! Indeed, for a long time now, as the honourable Member said, it has been rather embarrassing to have a debate from just one strict point of view, even one of the strict themes of distance selling, when we should have spoken much more broadly about this whole alcohol culture and its change in Finland and what kind of image we give in it. Are we going to give the impression that we still want to be such an old control commission-Finland instead of being a genuinely supportive Finland for a European alcohol policy, which, after all, could gradually get rid of this taboo? Interesting details: We are also fighting for 5.5% or 4.7%. It's kind of exciting that when you go to a restaurant, we order 87% of the milder that goes with taste habits, that's all. It is rather awkward even to discuss the fact that if you do, you always buy a stronger one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u204	Mr President! Indeed, we are discussing a draft law and a report which must be centred on public health and, therefore, on the economy. We are aware that alcohol policy is, of course, always a balance between different objectives, but it is clear, for reasons already apparent from the explanatory statement of the law, that the primary objective must be to promote public health, especially when we know what billions of harm we are unfortunately talking about in Finnish society. President! I am very pleased that, in its own report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has gone through these specific alcohol problems very thoroughly, just as it is in its role. There is mention of the link between alcohol pollution and total consumption, alcohol diseases, other diseases, mental health problems, premature deaths, suicides, security constraints, police resources, of which we have actually heard here today at the mouth of Minister Risiko that we have not been prepared for the additional resource needs, when Parliament has been informed of the additional resource needs that this requires: road safety expenditure, social costs, both direct expenditure as a result of these diseases, accidents, violence and indirect, family nausea, child protection issues and so on. In addition, the Committee has raised the issue of the impact on working life through absenteeism, ill health, retirement. All of this must be taken into account in the debate and, as I said, in the reform of the law, I believe that the only correct emphasis that we are talking about is on public health, and, as I said, this is also on important economic issues. President! There is also the question of percentage limits, and I think that the committee rightly states here that when the consumption of brewery products is more than half of all alcohol consumed in Finland, it is quite clear that there is a high risk that consumption will move into stronger beer and will have such a significant impact on public health and the economy. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when it is said here that surely the drinkers of beer number three will continue to drink beer number three, it may be, as has been suggested here, that such beer may not be found on the shelf of the store in the future. Moreover, the price and the euro is a very hard consultant for consumers, but also in alcohol, and when the store makes, of course, a four cell or these strong beers with its offers of a throw-in product, it is quite clear in which direction this development is going to go. This has also been emphasised by all scientists and experts in their own opinions. President! Then I will address this issue of the size of a horse, that is, this question of distance selling. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answer as to whether it is really the case that the government does not see this risk, which has been well highlighted in the debate this evening. Can we not see the risk that has been raised here, the political risk, the financial risk, whether these are not seen or not recognised? And when you refer here to a clause prohibiting distance selling that has fallen into something no one knows where and why, and you refer to political reasons, how quickly do these political reasons disappear from the table to which you intend to take this distance selling for consideration? How do you react when the members of the committee tell us that experts who have visited Parliament have given their own expert opinions, assuming that distance selling is prohibited? Are we not also putting experts in Parliament in an unreasonably position when they have not been able to take a position on this issue? If, then, you wish to dwell on this matter in a working group, would it not happen that, in order to minimise the risk of this ban on distance selling at this reading, this legislation should be put in place so that we do not risk the monopoly going down during the holidays? Isn't that possible? And then you will continue to deal with this matter in the working groups and in your own committees and then come back with a new proposal if there is an even better formulation. What's so hard about this? It's a two-wheel drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u205	Mr President! Now that more than an hour of discussion and even a little debate on this subject has taken place, it must be said that at times a little discussion wants to be broken down and even the clear things are beginning to seem unclear. But it may be said that it has also become clear here that, if there are some positive aspects of this law, it is precisely the fact that we are trying to dismantle the bureaucracy of restaurant activities and thereby make it easier for them to operate and to direct alcohol consumption to the restaurant, then there are elements which are taking the matter in a different direction, and the most problematic of them is precisely what has been said here and now, in my opinion, quite well, if we start to raise this volume in the retail trade. When you think about it, it seems like a small matter, but experts — as in the case of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and when this government proposal was in the consultation — almost unanimously state that if this law is adopted in this way, if the volume of retail trade is raised, then the disadvantages will increase significantly, as has been very well noted in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Among other things, it is noted here that an increase in the number of police alerts would require 170 person-years of police work, costing between 10 and 15 million, or on one side there is talk of health damage, alcohol death: 150 deaths. Then I have to ask myself whether I have a counterargument in which I refute that these are not true, and I have to say that I do not have any counterargument. If I had a counterargument, if I had experts on the other side who said these weren't true, this little raise won't follow, then I myself might think that okay, let's do this kind of raise. But when the experts say that these are the consequences, and I do not have these counterarguments, I am the decision-maker in the face of the facts and I have to say that it is very difficult to support a proposal that causes such problems. Mr President! We have Christmas coming up, and when you think about these questions and read this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which says that alcohol is linked to a large part of domestic violence, the consumption of alcohol by parents in families is increasing, at the same time increasing the insecurity of both children and adults in families, and considering this holiday time that is coming, it will inevitably come to mind whether we are promoting the welfare of children, that every child can wake up in the morning with a safe mind and feel that home is a good place to live and live, or whether we are now promoting this legislation that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u214	Mr President! The proposal before us for a new alcohol law is generally good and necessary. It's going on. The important goal of the Sipilä government is to dismantle unnecessary regulation and standards. I welcome many of the reforms it brings with it, such as the expansion of the capacity of small breweries and the dismantling of unnecessary licensing bureaucracy. In Finland, alcohol policy is coordinated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. There is a solid justification for this. Alcohol policy is above all a social and health policy, not an industrial policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u217	Mr President! This draft law in the committee's report contains a lot of good and worthy elements, although this timetable did not allow us enough time to get to grips with this report properly. I would like to raise a few points which I find particularly difficult to accept. I will look at this as a health professional and a responsible adult caring for young people and as a grandmother of 14 children. The purpose of the government's alcohol proposal is to reduce the consumption of alcoholic substances by limiting and controlling the related business activities in order to prevent harm to users, other people and society as a whole. According to the Constitution, public authorities must promote the health of the population and seek to safeguard everyone's right to a healthy environment. It is obliged to support the opportunities of family and other child care providers to ensure the well-being and individual growth of the child. The provisions of the draft law under consideration are incompatible with the purpose of the law and with the constitutional requirements. The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health describes very well the criticisms made by a large number of social and health policy experts that the proposed alcohol law will increase alcohol consumption and the human and economic disadvantages of alcohol consumption, increase health damage and reduce the sustainability gap in the economy. I have discussed this bill with, among other things, police officers and paramedics working in the emergency room and on-call services. A nurse’s comment was especially memorable to me. He said: "Already a large proportion of patients in emergency care and emergency care are under the influence of drugs. Some say that the reform of the law will bring more work to Finland. I believe that we already have so much work to do in the emergency room and on-call services that we do not want any more work from this amendment of the law for we are hardly going to have new resources." I would have liked to ask Minister Saarikko: will there be additional resources? The police with whom I spoke were predicting an increase in the number of weekend alerts and the cost of transport, as well as an increase in the need to guard those arrested — that is to say, more work for them without additional resources. The increase in alcohol consumption will also increase the disadvantages for the close and family members of users. In particular, the harm of alcohol is seen directly and indirectly in the well-being of children. The increasing consumption of alcohol by older people is also worrying and has increased significantly in recent years. According to the OECD report, the impact of alcohol on the workplace as a loss of production is estimated at 1% of gross domestic product, which, when applied to Finland, means an annual loss of around EUR 2 billion. According to a government proposal, the indirect costs of alcohol would be at least EUR 1 billion a year. A few per cent increase in current alcohol-induced losses would mean a further loss of production of several tens of millions of euros. Are not the goals of the government just the opposite? Where is the policy coherence? Mr President! I find it very difficult to understand why we are making legislation that increases the cost of society and the risks to security. If we adopt this law, then I think it would be important to ensure sufficient resources for maintaining internal security and social and health care services. Earlier today, Minister Risikko said here that the Ministry of the Interior has not prepared for additional resources. The second issue that I find very difficult to accept in this draft law is the abolition of the restriction on the way in which it is produced, and this means allowing the sale of so-called soda wines in the grocery trade. There is a clear risk that these drinks will be made more accessible to children and young people to allow the retail sale of sodas in grocery stores. For example, according to the Finnish Association for Social Affairs and Health, it is incomprehensible that people want to increase the availability of soda-flavoured alcoholic products in shops. That's what's so popular about young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u220	Mr President! The proposed Alcohol Act aims to reduce the consumption of alcoholic substances and to prevent harm to society caused by alcohol. It is also good that there is a desire to reduce the regulatory burden. Reducing red tape and unnecessary standards is a good idea to dismantle and shift consumption from homes to restaurants and controlled environments. However, the Government’s proposal does not meet these objectives. Prices and availability are the main factors affecting the consumption of alcohol. The Government proposes that the maximum volume of alcoholic beverages authorised for retail sale should be increased from 4.7 % vol to 5.5 % vol. According to the studies, this change has a significant impact on the availability of alcohol and on the increase in consumption. Since Finns drink more than half of all the alcohol they drink as brewery products, their strength is crucial to the amount of harm. The shift of consumption to stronger beer would have a significant impact on public health and the economy. The amendment would extend the presentation of stronger alcoholic beverages from the current 350 stores to more than 5000 retail stores and over 8000 potential holders of a liquor license. This would significantly increase the consumption of Finnish alcohol and the resulting public health and economy and safety problems and social problems. At the same time, consumption would go back inside the home walls, with all the problems and disadvantages associated with it, also for the loved ones and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u221	Madam President! In Finland, there is a long-term and very accurate study of the effects of alcohol policy. Historically, legislative changes to increase the availability of alcohol have, without exception, resulted in an increase in total alcohol consumption and thus in adverse effects and costs. In the government's proposal, the alcohol law and some related laws have not given sufficient weight to the available research data and expert hearings. In addition to the many negative effects of the proposal itself, the changes put forward weaken the efforts made over the past ten years to reduce alcohol-related harm. Similarly, the austerity measures introduced by many other measures would significantly lose their relevance as a result of the changes introduced. I welcome the fact that the committee proposes in its report that the maximum volume of alcohol products sold for retail sale should be maintained at the current level of 4.7% and that the committee does not propose an increase in volume to 5.5%, as proposed by the government. I really hope that this percentage will not be raised. However, if alcohol legislation is to effectively address the negative effects of alcohol, more effective means are available. This is also stated in the government's proposal. A reduction in the alcoholic strength by volume of alcoholic beverages sold in licensed retail sales has been found to be an effective means, such as in Sweden, where the limit is 3.5 % vol. I therefore propose, as Mr Räsänen has already done before, that Parliament accept 3.5 % of the volume as a new one, in line with the Swedish model. There is no problem in Finland getting stronger alcoholic beverages if someone wants to. There is a very good service in the beginning, and there are stronger drinks for those who need them. Section 25 of Chapter 4 of the Alcohol Act currently in force The minimum drink range shall be laid down. According to it, a sufficient selection of mild alcoholic beverages and affordable non-alcoholic beverages should be available at the place of issue. The existing law does not specify what types of non-alcoholic beverages should be available, which means that the supply is still too often limited to soft drinks, water and coffee. The above provision was not put forward at all in the present government proposal for a new alcohol law. This is what I propose in my legislative initiative for 42 years that there should also be a non-alcoholic alternative for groups of alcoholic products sold at the place of issue, such as beer, cider and long drinks, and red, white and sparkling wines belonging to the wine product group. The proposal specifically supports the purpose of the alcohol law, which is to control alcohol consumption in order to prevent social, social and health damage caused by substances containing alcohol. This provision would ensure an adequate coverage and quality of the minimum supply of non-alcoholic products. High-quality non-alcoholic beverages sold on a liquor stand would enable a larger proportion of customers to choose the non-alcoholic option instead of alcohol. Investing in and increasing non-alcoholic products could also reduce alcohol consumption in social situations. We have customers who are taking certain medicines and who have illnesses that are pregnant or who may otherwise have problems using alcohol products, and it would be reasonable to offer them a good supply of non-alcoholic beverages as well. When we have vegetable options, gluten-free and so on in diets, I think it would also be reasonable to have this type of supply. I therefore hope that this proposal will receive support. There's been a lot of talk here about distance selling. To allow distance selling would mean a parallel retail channel for monopoly products and the dismantling of Alko's monopoly and the privatisation of the alcohol trade in Finland. This is an undeniable fact. If anyone says otherwise, I would advise you to stop and think about it again. In their opinions, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs stated that the registration of a government proposal against distance selling is unclear and should be clarified. It is up to the legislator to legislate in such a way as to be precise and not to leave a matter for the court to interpret. As has been mentioned several times, the original draft government proposal for a new alcohol law included that section on the prohibition of distance selling. In other words, in the draft, Article 30 "The cross-border sale of alcohol drinks and the import into Finland related to such sales is prohibited." And, as I mentioned earlier, all those who made statements in the consultation on this alcohol law package — and many, many of the experts we heard in the committee — were assuming that this matter and article were still there, and in the finals, the only actor we received a written statement on this potential change in distance selling was Alko, and indeed no other experts we heard in the committee were in this opinion. In other words, if I think that a major legislative package is being taken forward, I would see that the only possibility is that this article will actually be added to it, as it was in the original proposal, or then moved to the spring side of this legislative package, so that, as the Minister suggested that he should put a working party on the matter, the working group could first complete its report and then proceed with the discussion. I guess it doesn't make any sense to have a whole package of laws ready and then re-examine. I would like to make a few other points about the content. The committee proposes, in line with the government's proposal, that in future non-fermented beverages should also be sold for retail sale. The result would be that the existing fermented cocktails would be replaced by mixtures of beverages made from distilled alcohol. Products of this product group — the so-called sodas — and possibly other new alcoholic products — are particularly attractive to young consumers. It has been estimated that the removal of the restriction on the method of manufacture would, in the worst case scenario, threaten to halt or even reverse the fall in alcohol consumption of young minors throughout the 21st century. Otherwise, in expert hearings, the change has been considered to have an additive and detrimental effect on public health, which is why I am in favour of maintaining the restriction on the method of manufacture. The committee, like the government's proposal, proposes that a provision be adopted whereby a person aged 16 or over should be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages under the supervision of the responsible carer or other person appointed for the job. The proposed amendment is an irresponsible and contradictory measure in view of the fact that a 16-year-old is a minor to whom the buying and surrender of alcoholic beverages must be punishable as an alcohol offence. As regards the provision, there is no assessment of the aspects of child protection and the work of a minor worker and so on. So I would hope that working with alcoholic products, selling or serving them, would only be possible for adults. There are still more negative points in the proposal that need to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u224	Madam President! At first, the purpose of the law in general. According to the proposal, the purpose of the law would continue to be to reduce the consumption of alcoholic substances. Reducing the consumption of the population and limiting and controlling business activities would continue to help prevent the harm caused by alcohol. In addition to the harm caused to alcohol users, this section, which defines this purpose, mentions the harm caused by alcohol to other people and society as a whole. The purpose of this article is to emphasise that alcohol law aims to protect society as a whole, especially children and other family members. Here earlier in the debate on the debate, Mr Eestilä, who has just left the Chamber, said that everyone should have his own power to decide what kind of alcoholic beverages to use and what percentage strength to drink. In that sense, if we go to this liberal line, then we should also think this way: should not everyone also bear all the costs themselves? The stance of the Christian Democrats is that we in society are trying to take care of them even the weakest, and that is why legislation cannot be done just from the point of view of what everyone wants to do for himself, but also from the point of view of how the legislation can be less protective. Mr President! In view of the adverse effects mentioned above, the amendment would mean that legislation would be very weak in its implementation of the purpose enshrined in the law. Similarly, the changes are in conflict with the objectives set out in Juha Sipilä's Government Programme, which state that Finnish people's sense of well-being and well-being in different life situations should be strengthened. The aim has also been to reduce inequalities, and it is alcohol policy that is an area in which the achievement of these objectives could become a reality if it were done correctly. I am in favour of bringing the relevant legislation together as well as the regulations adopted along with it into a more coherent whole. In this regard, the Christian Democrats have seen it as important that we should seek to reform this legislation and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, as well as to correct some of the obsolete provisions of the present age, which are derived from spirits from previous 1932 and also from the 1969 alcohol law. In other words, there are points in this alcohol law that the Christian Democrats would certainly not be opposed to if these issues, which focus specifically on the dismantling of red tape, were to be dealt with in this reform, but then clearly maintained from this public health point of view. Similarly, the simplification of standard jungles is justified in accordance with the deregulation projects, but unfortunately, instead of these objectives, the objectives of the Government's proposal have come from very different backgrounds. In Finland, Sweden and Norway, public health has long been one of the cornerstones of alcohol policy. However, all in all, this bill on alcohol is based on the needs of the business community, as the representatives of the Coalition Party have said here with many mouths, and at the same time means that Finland is heading away from this Nordic tradition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u241	Madam President! These days, alcohol policy speaks a lot of Finns. There is a large legal package for the overall reform of alcohol laws in the Parliament's deliberations. The main arm wrestling has been linked and is linked to the liberalisation of sales of stronger alcohol products from Alko to stores and kiosks. According to recent studies, it shares the opinion of the public in a much similar way to that of the MPs: about half are in favour and about half are opposed, some are not sure of their position. Tomorrow, however, Friday is scheduled to take a decision here in Parliament, which may be different from today, after a few weeks, i.e. after the turn of the year. Based on the contacts I have received and the public debate, it seems that the number of loud disappointments would be higher if alcohol sales were not liberalised, because in a liberal society that emphasises the great and civilized aspects of freedom, it may not be fashionable to support laws that limit these freedoms. The ethos of individual freedoms, success and unlimited enjoyment are strong in our time. Mr President! Almost all researchers and experts consulted by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health believe that the total consumption of alcohol in Finland would increase somewhat if Parliament were to bless access to the shelves of 5,5 % alcohol stores. For example, if the price of middle beer and beer four were to be almost the same in the future, perhaps a difference of about 10 to 15 cents per can, it would not be a great wonder if Finns, as a beer people and often hop-seeking, switched from middle beer to four-cells.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u244	Mr President! We all have misconceptions about alcohol, but that does not necessarily mean that our misconceptions are true. I, too, have the impression that we have two instruments beyond the others that help not to increase alcohol consumption. One is price and the other is availability. I believe that these two things are quite widely shared in this Chamber. When you are not an expert on a matter yourself, you are obliged to trust both the preparation of the government and the experts that the Parliament hears. As far as this law is concerned, it does go into the mouth of amazement because the government's proposal states that the aim of the overall reform is to reduce the harm caused by alcohol. Nevertheless, expert hearings have clearly shown that this is a law that actually increases the consumption of alcohol and hence also the harm that comes from alcohol. They have been well described in this debate, whether it be working life, children or violence or some other phenomena. For example, before this debate, when we had Minister Risikko in the Chamber, he was also asked about this alcoholic. He said clearly and without further ado that if the motion goes through, more police and child welfare resources will be needed. In other words, more police and child protection resources are needed if we are to maintain the security we currently have. For example, the Ministry of the Interior has estimated that the overall reform of the alcohol law, as proposed by the Government, should lead to an increase of 170 person-years for policemen to maintain the level of alarm, traffic safety and crime prevention at the current level, with a price tag of between 10 and 15 million. We talk a lot about the economy here. Often, on the right side of the hall, we are asked on the left side where the money is to be given. Then we'll have laws like this and no one's talking about money. No one talks about it on the other side of the hall where this money comes from and how it is secured. Money is money, but when we talk about, for example, increasing child protection problems, then it is not about money; it is about human need. I believe that the responsibility for all of us should be that we do everything we can to ensure that the number of child welfare children does not increase. If we move forward on this matter, we come to the young, we come to the future workforce. I have also often learned to rely on the OECD’s assessment of the economy. Although I don't always share the view that's there. But if you have thought about the harm of alcohol and it is related to Finland, it has been found that in fact these costs are about 2 billion and talk about 1% of GDP. We are all looking for growth, we are looking for employment to be strengthened, but then, in the dark hours of the night, we are deciding here a law which suddenly deprives us of a large part of the growth and labour force of our economy with the negative effects of this law. Of course, all the harmful effects of alcohol do not come as a result of this law, but they already exist, but I think that in our political decisions the direction we are going is essential. I must confess that I myself was much more sympathetic to this government proposal when it came to this house. I thought, well, it's not that big a problem, but the more you've listened to the experts and read the show yourself, the more worried you've become. The aim of the Sote reform is to reduce health inequalities and reduce costs. This is one of the key elements of the reform. It seems that this is going to remove at least a large part of the opportunities involved in the reform of social security. The second is this distance selling and the increase in its risk. On the basis of this evening's debate, we disagree on many points as to what is in this law, but as far as distance sales and Alko's monopoly are concerned, no one has disagreed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u247	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Mr Essayah told us about the situation in other EU countries, and it would have been interesting to hear from him when he praised the alcohol policy of other countries, which European alcohol policy he would like to copy in Finland when he thought they were better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u266	Madam President! Congressman Heinonen, I don't know if that was a convention expert or an experience expert, or from which tower you shared these so-called truths, but yes, that is so far from living life if you go to Korso, Finland's Paris. In that you are right that there would certainly be support there, I bet that 90 percent for this sort of thing. They are my constituents, and I do not know whether they will vote for the coalition for this reason, but in any case there is support for this. There is no denying that the people are in favour of getting more cheaper booze and 24 h preferably and all regulation out, but when it is not just about festivals or hairdressers or some village shops or small breweries, it is, from my point of view, above all about the children and young people and the thousands of families that are growing up with the police rampaging and the family emergency and the amount of child protection work and the increase in the use of drugs by mothers. All this has been reported in this expert opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This is nothing like that, even my own experience. I would be happy to support this government proposal with all due respect, because it is not my job to monitor anyone's drinking either, but this fact that has come into this book makes my conscience wonder whether I, as a legislator elected by the people, have the courage to promote the most favourable aspect of the overall solution in this legislation, do I have the courage to go against these experts and adopt such legislation. At least I can't do that because someone's paying for it. Its price is paid by the taxpayer, it is paid by the family, it is paid by the child, and society acts in such a way that, unfortunately, under the weaker conditions, many laws are passed. This is our responsibility, and this is our responsibility, and one can also say that this is our prerogative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u269	Madam President! In his previous speech, Mr Niikko has just said that one essential point should be taken into account: if the people have given them the power to sit in the seat of the legislator, as we Members of Parliament who are here today, the laws must often be laid down according to the position of the weakest, i.e. in order to safeguard their position, not in order to guarantee a stronger position. And there's no need to apologize for this. It's not a bad thing. That's a very good thing. But it is now the case that today, when this reform of the alcohol law is also concerned with this issue, there seems to be a significant loss of this principle for the representatives of the government parties. This bill seems, in some respects, strongly to be done in order to guarantee a stronger position and forget to safeguard the weakest. And, at least, when we look at these disadvantages, no one has denied that this would not happen. In line with the Government bill, the percentage of alcoholic beverages sold in shops could be increased if, at the same time, it were accepted that consumption would increase as a result of alcohol enrichment and increased availability. It is estimated that the decision would mean an increase of about 6% in consumption and an increase of about 150 deaths due to alcohol. In 2015, nearly 1700 Finns died from alcohol-related diseases and alcohol poisonings — 1300 men, about 400 women. However, alcohol mortality has decreased since 2008, but the most recent significant reason for the increase in alcohol mortality in the early 2000s was the increased consumption of alcohol. And now it is known from this bill that it will increase consumption. Since 2007, total consumption of alcoholic beverages has decreased. That's a good direction. That direction should not be changed now. However, more people of working age die from alcohol - related causes than from individual types of cancer or heart disease, such as coronary heart disease. Furthermore, as we know, alcohol is involved in many accidents as a factor in death. It is a sovereign partner in crimes taking place in Finland, especially in violent crimes, an unwavering burden on the work of the police, rescue services, health care and child welfare authorities. We know this. Mr President! I should like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the fact that in its report the committee has decided to maintain the percentage of alcoholic beverages sold in shops. It is estimated that a significant increase in the availability of alcohol by raising the percentage limit would lead to an increase in total alcohol consumption and an increase in all alcohol-related harm. In addition to the health damage, alcohol deaths, accidents and human tragedies caused by the current availability and consumption of alcohol, Finnish adults and children already suffer in their skin the costs of treating alcohol harm in billions, whether or not they are themselves involved in these harms and costs. Mr President! Today, there have been arguments that the government's proposal would be a significant advantage for small shops in remote areas. As a northern Finn, it should be noted that the authors of such arguments would probably need to gain experience in the outlying Finnish regions, especially in remote areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u272	Madam President! Every now and then, legislative proposals come to Parliament, where very different values, goals and risks have to be compared against each other. In this largely excellent draft law, as can be easily deduced from the debate that has taken place, the confrontation between risks, disadvantages and benefits is evident and strongly shares opinions. I usually look at matters and decisions from a social and health policy perspective. It is undeniable that a strong change in total alcohol consumption will have a negative impact on the overall public health. If total alcohol consumption rises, alcohol harm will also rise. It is estimated that the change in the percentage of alcohol sold in the grocery trade from 4.7 % by volume to 5.5 % by volume would only increase the total consumption of alcohol by 0.5 %. At the same time, the use of mild alcohol products in relation to strong alcohol products would increase. Some of the harm to the health of alcohol is committed to the overall long-term consumption of the individual, such as cancer, while others to the total amount of alcohol consumed at one time. These types of disadvantages include accidents, drowning deaths and so on. They are often the result of strong single hops, most often caused by the use of strong, strong alcoholic beverages. People’s drinking habits have continued to differ. While the European-style drinking culture has come to Finland, we still have our own cultural tradition of alcohol consumption as a burden. The current legislative reform supports the change in the alcohol culture towards the use of milder alcoholic beverages. The increase in the percentage of alcohol products sold in retail trade and the changes in alcohol taxation would also bring increased tax revenues to the state treasury. It is therefore important that we make a significant financial contribution to combating alcohol-related harm. I am pleased that our government has invested heavily in, among other things, the care and rehabilitation of substance abuse mothers. Specific measures will need to be taken in the future to reduce alcohol consumption among young and older people. The proposal for a statement contained in the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health would be a positive addition to our alcohol policy in the right direction. Alcohol consumption is certainly not part of the courtyards of schools and kindergartens. The best part of the alcohol law under discussion relates to the dismantling of standards, on which the honourable speakers in this Chamber have spoken, among other things, by Mrs Heinonen. I have to say that I completely disagree with Mrs Halmemenpää on the situation of shops in sparsely populated areas, especially in Eastern and Northern Finland. I come from an area outside urban centres where there are very few active smokes in a large sparsely populated area, at least outside holiday periods. In small municipal centres, small village shops are stuttering and persevering, and the overall result of which sales of alcohol products are also of enormous importance. We decision-makers here in Parliament or at municipal level have little means to maintain living villages if the village shop is lost nearby. Other services also die when the store dies — the village dies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u276	Mr President! As the debate has already shown here this evening, one of the most difficult issues — including for myself — is the conflict between speeches and acts in this bill. There has been a debate on whether distance selling is prohibited, whether the points of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should be better taken into account. We've been having a conversation about the harm of alcohol. Several Members of Parliament have made excellent speeches about them, but at the same time we know that one of the aims of the government's proposal is to increase consumption. We have tried to find out whether Alko's monopoly is to be maintained and, if so, why the ban on distance selling has been lifted from the previous bill. It has also been reported here that a large number of experts, with different research results, tell us in a clear language and a message about the disadvantages of the increase in total alcohol consumption. At the same time, however, we are talking about our ideas here on the image level, as if we are putting these two into the same balance. Then we know that this bill would increase the number of police officers, among other things, by 170 person-years, but at the same time we know that there are no resources available for this in next year's budget. It has therefore been very difficult to deal with the government's proposal on all sides, precisely because of these contradictions between speeches and actions. Mr President! Tobacco was once considered very normal until we got results from the connection of tobacco to cancer, and as a result we began to make legislation that fewer and fewer Finns would be exposed to tobacco and then their health would be exposed. Well, cancer affects almost everyone in Finland at the moment, either directly or indirectly through a close one, but we are not really talking about alcohol being a major carcinogen that increases the risk of cancer. We are not talking about an increase in the risk of consumption throughout the lifetime, not that people who drink a lot of alcohol once a week up to the point of getting drunk are more at risk of cancer than those who, in the evening, take a single glass of wine. From the point of view of cancer, there is no difference between whether or not at one time, as it were, culturally and culturally, is being used correctly, and this is also important when we are considering this bill. So our ideas are quite different from what cold facts and studies are, and this is something that I have been stopped by in committee hearings, expert hearings, that is, knowingly we decision-makers here know that about 60% of men's alcohol-related cancers are upper digestive tract cancers, 60% of women's alcohol-related cancers are breast cancers, and we know, for example, that there is no safe dose limit. It cannot be said that this and this amount are safe for you, but the total amount and also those genetic differences affect this. At the moment, the health effects of alcohol have been assessed through alcohol-related diseases, but we have not taken into account public health effects, such as an increase in the risk of cancer. I would like to point this out in this debate because the debate that is going on in public is, as it were, whether we want a more liberal alcohol policy or not. We are discussing cultural and cultural change, but not such an important public health issue as how, as legislators, we protect Finns from the fact that the risk of cancer for Finns would not increase to the dimensions of the public health impact. In the debate on the restriction of alcohol consumption, attention is often drawn to the great consumers and alcohol problems, but, especially from the point of view of cancer prevention, the harmful effects of alcohol affect the population much, far more widely than just these large consumers. That is why, even when this bill is based on an increase in the total consumption of alcohol, we are consciously now also making a decision here which we must understand that the risk of cancer in the population is also increasing. I am taking a long pause because I know that each of us has faced cancer sufferers or have fallen ill, and this is a serious matter. Secondly, I would like to highlight the way in which the debate on alcohol has taken place in recent years. Very similar to the type of tobacco we have had in the past, but one big claim has been that drinking is normal and abstaining is abnormal. As it were, efforts have been made to create such an image. Efforts have been made to create the impression that total consumption does not increase the harm, since only a small number of people are responsible for the alcohol problem. As I just said, this is not the case. It has also been argued that consumer education works better than regulation. This is not the case either. There is international uncontroversial evidence of what increases alcohol consumption, and there is no doubt that the availability and price of alcohol affects consumption. So the more points we have in terms of access to alcohol and the lower the price, the greater the consumption. This is not just a Finnish phenomenon, but it is based on international studies. That is why I find it strange to say that there is something different to the way these research results have looked at this. Then, Mr President, on the third and last point, I would like to raise the question of distance selling of alcohol. As legislator, I have a major problem with the fact that three committees have given their opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in which they have stated that the legislation on distance selling needs to be clarified, i.e. that the arguments of the government and the articles of the government's proposal are incompatible. Three committees together, three committees together, have given this, but the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has decided that it is not necessary or necessary, but it will be possible to do so at some point later, even though this whole package of legislation is before us. The main problem here is that the scope for authorisation for retail sales and the restrictions on imports are reflected in the law. So this is okay, but there is no ban on distance selling in the law. The fact that it does not exist raises a problem for us as regards the principle of legality. As Members of Parliament are well aware, under Article 8 of the Constitution, no one must be held guilty of a crime or sentenced to punishment on the basis of an act which, at the time of the act, is not punishable by law. This is therefore a clear message from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should have been able to make a change. It is very regrettable that this could not be done, but Parliament is still in session with very controversial messages about how even the government parties internally interpret this section. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u277	Mr President! The Government's proposal leaves the legal status of Finnish alcohol law partially open. Since distance selling is not prohibited by law, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states in its opinion quoted in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: 'Article 8 of the Constitution states that no one may be held guilty of a crime or sentenced to punishment on the basis of an act which is not punishable by law at the time of the act'. A new quote: "If the purpose is to criminalise distance selling, it should be provided for by a penalty rule which complies with the principle of legality of Article 8 of the Constitution." It can therefore be considered that the new alcohol law does not prohibit distance selling. It is now time for the distance seller to start a proper sales campaign in Finland, because if Finland tries later to ban its activities, the chances of success in the court are excellent. The legal situation has also changed since the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also from the chain of events that the draft law introduced a ban on distance selling and yet it was removed from the draft law. These material facts certainly outweigh the assurances of politicians that the intention was to limit distance selling. Why, then, did the same politicians not use their power to put this will in a section when the law was being changed? The situation can become completely out of control if alcohol entrepreneurs want to use this opportunity, and there are plenty of them just south of the Gulf of Finland. This is gambling at the expense of Alko's position but, above all, endangers a controlled alcohol policy. What, then, is the relationship between distance selling and Alko's monopoly? If, due to the unprepared law and the confused legal situation, a large-scale trawling operation is created, which is still confirmed by the right, Alko's profitability will be reduced. Of course, the same will happen if stronger drinks are allowed to move to the shelves of stores. However, distance selling abroad does not in itself violate Alko's retail monopoly in Finland. Minister Saarikko appealed to the so-called Visnapu case, which has been dealt with by the Helsinki Court of Appeal but is not yet valid. The Committee on Legal Affairs has also considered this judgment in its opinion. The solution considers the conditions for distance selling, but it is important to note that Mr Visna Tree himself was not a distance seller but sold alcohol here on the Finnish side, thus violating Alko's exclusive right to retail sale and thus the alcohol law. However, there is a conflict between the laws. Although the current Alcohol Act does not recognise distance sales at all, it is still part of the tax legislation under the EU Excise Directive. It has been identified precisely because excise duties would be collected and not circumvented. Objections to distance selling on the grounds of loss of tax revenue are, in fact, a contradictory circular conclusion. Tax revenue will be lost precisely because legal distance sales will not be regulated and excise duties and VAT paid will not be monitored. There are therefore two options: either the EU alone bans distance selling and tolerates criminal activities and tax losses, or allows distance selling and imposes strict requirements on it. Of course, Alko offers the third option of buying from abroad through it, as it is today. However, I am not in favour of Alko being granted a retail monopoly over and above the retail monopoly. Incidentally, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was not able to hear from the experts on distance selling after the serious considerations put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but was hastened to this present confusion and extremely risky situation. The only person to ask for a statement was Alko. So it didn't help much that Santa made a statement about the cabbage country. Mr President! The ban on distance selling was apparently removed from the law because of the notification received from the EU Commission in spring 2017, although this is not reflected in the report. However, in its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it necessary to clarify the need to improve the conditions for distance selling from the point of view of business activities. In other words, Alko’s retail monopoly, supplemented by regulated, controlled and taxed distance selling, could have an objective. This should, however, be achieved through clear legislation at legislative level, as the current model leads to the situation in the Wild West — or in the Wild North. In Sweden, distance sales have been allowed for nearly 10 years. Alcohol delivered from the Internet accounts for a total of 1% of alcohol sold in Sweden. Distance selling has now been planned to be limited for a year, but so far it has not progressed. It is not going to be denied because it cannot be denied in the EU. The decision of the Court of Justice in the case of Visnawood is interesting in this regard, and I now read a paragraph which is not usually quoted here: "However, the court considers that by changing the licensing system without a fixed establishment, in practice, distance selling can be brought under effective regulatory control. It is possible to set the same conditions for distance selling as for other retailers, such as the allowed time for the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages, the identification of young persons and the prohibition on the sale of alcoholic beverages. Further requirements deemed necessary to achieve the purpose of the Alcohol Act may also be imposed on distance sales. In conclusion, the Court of Appeal notes that the protection of public health and public order can also be achieved less effectively through a system of authorisation restricting intra-Union trade." Mr President! In parallel with the Alcohol Act, an increase in alcohol tax was prepared by the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance. In itself, it is outrageous that Parliament's resources are being used for legislation which is not to be implemented in accordance with a single report if another law goes in accordance with the report of the parliamentary committee. The fact that the Coalition Party would give up tax revenues of EUR 100 million and demand that a financial gap be filled with something else, a more unpleasant tax increase for the central government party, is nothing short of blackmail, but even more than a blackmailing assembly, it tells of a submissive centre. One cannot help but wonder why it has turned its back on a government partner, and the reasons for decreasing support need not be sought further. The expert hearings of the Tax Section also dealt with distance selling. The tax administration and Customs representatives reported that only a few distance vendors were registered as subject to VAT and excise duties. The debate was sympathetic to the increase in obligations and controls, so I tabled the following paragraph in the committee's report: "A tax increase may also increase the amount of alcohol ordered from the Internet, which typically excludes excise duties and VAT and any customs duties. In this respect, tax revenue and legitimate business activities could be protected if distance sellers could register in a public tax register on which the Tax Administration would actively inform. In this way, purchasers could be sure and could be required to ensure that the supplier of alcohol ordered online complies with the provisions of the laws and obligations." To my amazement, the government parties did not take up my constructive proposal. And now we know why: the Coalition Party called for the abolition of the original draft law on the prohibition of distance selling. The city centre could not accept a section on allowing distance sales. Instead of making bold decisions, the government chose an ostrich strategy. Sadly, the world does not disappear at the moment the bird puts its head in the hole of the earth, only the creature itself will be blinded. The problem was, therefore, that distance selling is not to be allowed but cannot be denied. Mr President! Where distance selling is not prohibited, it is permitted. And if it is not allowed separately, it cannot be regulated. And if it can't be regulated, there could be a major disaster. You, the good government, the blackmailers of the coalition and the submissives of the centre, are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u278	Mr President! Good morning, 20 Members of Parliament, who are able to be here during the dark hours of the night to discuss an extremely important issue. [TimoHeinonenarvous] When dealing with this alcohol law, it is a question of significant cash flows in society. You can compare a little bit to that kind of stuff. The war may have a market place of about 10 billion for these international corporations that want to take over it, and the government is about to do so. I do not know the gross value of this alcohol trade, but according to the yellow book, the proceeds of the alcohol tax seemed to be close to EUR 1.5 billion next year, which means that quite a stream is also at stake in the very sense that such a sum will come into the treasury of the state. In addition, Alko accounts for some of his profits each year. But it's been getting smaller and smaller, and I think it's about 40 million at the moment. It is quite clear that as much as social welfare billions are of interest to the industry, alcohol billions are also of interest to the industry. The government bends in both directions so that the spine does not exist, the leather keeps the head up — thick leather, as a politician should. We see that the leading idea of this proposal, which we have before us, is to support industry through alcohol policy. It is a dangerous road, for example, from the point of view of Alko's retail monopoly. As I mentioned earlier, 23 to 24 years ago I negotiated with the Commission on Finland's membership of the then European Community, and the subject of the negotiations was nothing more than Alko's monopoly, which then covered the manufacture of retail, wholesale, import, export, and then Alko still had official and educational tasks, restrictions on sales and marketing, that is to say, the really great company was Alko at the time. Everything else had to be abandoned and given up on a voluntary basis, but the Aho government wanted to hold on to the retail monopoly. I conducted the negotiations then, and together with the Nordic countries we agreed and knew that the sole justification for maintaining a retail monopoly is the basis for public health. The government was unanimous, and this is what happened, and that is why we managed to maintain the retail monopoly, and because of it we have this EUR 1.5 billion — or perhaps there could be some tax revenue — and this model, which we have, the alcohol policy model of the Nordic welfare society, today, both in Sweden and Norway, which also took place at the time, even though it did not join.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u289	Madam President! It would be better to spend the Christmas season here at 2.30 a.m. talking, but this is the will of the government, and we are. If there's no other time, I'm cool with it. When it comes to important matters, then we talk, then we are watching and working, especially when it comes to the alcohol law, which I was able to learn a little more about in my former duties for over a decade. The objective of Article 1 is to reduce alcohol consumption. Then what are we doing here now? We will soon have some 100 years of experience, research on the fact that as the availability of alcohol improves and the price falls, the use increases. All the times that this has happened in Finland during independence have also increased use, and I do not believe that after 100 years the drinking habits of the Finnish people and our alcohol culture would have changed so much that this time this would not happen. That is why I am sorry that we are in this situation. There are safety problems here, there are social problems here, there are health problems here. In my opinion, it is not a small amount anticipated 150 additional deaths for alcohol-related harm. It is not a small sum that the number of hospital days is estimated to be 1,500 more, and at the same time we are making a mess. It is not a small idea that the number of hours worked and the number of working days will disappear because of this increase in alcohol consumption. The sad thing was that the minister here said that he knew that more workers were needed to protect children, but it does not seem to be in between, if we know it, not even to suspect, but to know and write in the explanatory statement that the children's lives will be reduced as the consumption of alcohol increases, and yet we want this law to be passed. At present, 70% of police tasks involve alcohol — 70%. They're accidents, they're violence, they're drowning, they're fires. More than 70% of these involve alcohol, and this is something we want to increase. At the moment, we policemen have enough to do. Today's budget debate went through police resources, and in that debate Minister Risikko said that he knows that at least 170 more police officers are needed, for which a) there is no money and b) there is no police. As I recall, when we dealt with this matter in the Administrative Committee, we were aware that there were 17 police officers who could have moved directly into the labour market. 17 — and 170 would be necessary if this law came into force. [KariKulmala intermediate call] — — — — That's right, but why are we doing more need for the cops? [KariKulmala intermediate call] We in this proposal have many things that have been discussed here, just a few words briefly. Among other things, we have further permits coming under authorisation, which is also something that the police are concerned about, because it is increasingly gearing up the use of their resources there in the middle of the night, so that their shift arrangements will change. There are also various changes to reduce permit conditions, which many feel has been a very good thing here, but at the same time there is a risk of an increase in the black economy. Similarly, prior supervision is no longer so strict for entrepreneurs as to obtain alcohol permits, but has moved on to post-monitoring, which also increases the risk of a black economy. Not to mention the question of what is already an acute period of time in many places with regard to law enforcement. Similarly, this business view, which has been a matter of concern here: we would all like people's behaviour in alcohol consumption to go to more restaurants and at the same time have food and other things, but this proposal actually transfers alcohol consumption to supermarkets, that is to say, alcohol to be bought at home and on the streets, for the reason that there will be the opportunity for those supermarkets to become the strongest, and that is to increase the sales of alcohol in supermarkets. And there will be thousands more of these drinks with a higher percentage of alcohol, which weakens the more sensible business policy line in which people would sit in restaurants and drink. We're going the other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u296	Mr President! This alcohol is a sparkly question for us Finns, when it seems to be present in both good and bad. Many times we have the wonderful moments of life when we celebrate them with alcohol, when we often drown in alcohol, and unfortunately, in many tragedies, alcohol also appears in a large part. In this respect, it is only natural that when the alcohol law is being amended it will also cause discussion in this Chamber, and so it is good. After all, the reform of the Alcohol Act is always a balance between consumer freedoms, business opportunities and public health. I am well aware that someone believes that consumers must have new freedoms, I am well aware that business must have new opportunities, but the question is how much public health can pay for this. That is the point. It is usually said that the strongest can endure what the weakest demand, and from that point of view, this legislation should be examined. It is quite clear that the winners of this law, of course, are consumers in the sense that the product range is increasing, the industry, the brewing industry are thanking them for the increase in sales, but ultimately, from a public health point of view, we taxpayers and people will pay for this. For the moment, the harmful effects of this alcohol are no small amount in our economy when we talk about EUR 1.3 billion per year, which is therefore going to deal with the harm caused by alcohol — EUR 1.3 billion. I understand that quite a few speeches are often made in this Chamber on the need to balance this public finances with those savings. Against this background, it always seems a little crazy that we will then, under the conditions, be adding to those expenditures. In view of the cost increases that this law will make in any case — whether we are talking about the social and health sector, the security sector — they are huge, and I do not believe that a great many people will disagree on this, or if so, I will ask why, when you read the government's arguments here, many of the representatives of the government parties are saying that they will not happen. Is it to be concluded, then, that other government proposals can be interpreted slightly so that the things told there are not so true that they should be believed? When you read all the research that has to do with this alcohol and with the history and with what decisions have been made in the past, and you learn about it, it is quite clear that even with this law consumption will rise. It can then be argued how much this rise is, but consumption will rise, it is quite clear, and when consumption rises, then the disadvantages will increase, and when the disadvantages increase, then the costs to society will increase. In identifying this obvious line of reasoning, I do not believe anyone has a problem, and then, if and when you are willing to free up access, then increase the disadvantages and thus increase the costs, then it will be said honestly here. In this respect, we must thank Minister Saariko, who has on many occasions made it clear from this toilet that this law will lead to an increase in costs and will then be reflected in taxpayers' pockets and, of course, in human and social suffering. With regard to these costs, I am addressing just one detail and it relates to this aspect of internal security. Before we started dealing with this report on alcohol law, we dealt with the state budget for the section of the Ministry of the Interior. At the time, from left to right, everyone was concerned about police resources, as they should be. It's the right thing to worry about. At the moment, the resources are being reduced, for example, by the fact that we have been lagging behind over time. No matter how much we want to increase the number of policemen, we have no chance of having trained policemen. At the moment, we have about 20 or so police officers out of work who we could take up right away. When it is stated here in the government's proposal that the direct effects of this law are really 170 man-years, 10 to 15 million, then you think that if the government wants to pass this proposal then it will also bear the costs. However, when this issue was discussed in the budget debate, no one — I would like to underline: no one in the government party — rose up and said that next year we will have to bring a proposal that will bring in EUR 10 to EUR 15 million of additional resources to the police. So no one. Nor have I heard in this debate that any of the government parties are presenting, for example, the necessary resources for social and health care that this change would require. When I understand that in this society in the longer term, in terms of social welfare and health care, we have more to do with this saving of EUR 3 billion in this increase in costs, then we will also increase those costs in this law. It's honest to admit it. If that is what you want to do, then it would be honest to present those additional resources. I have not heard a single speech in which any representative of the government who supported this law would be here to present the necessary resources, which are therefore required by the government's proposal and its arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u299	Mr President! There is a new alcohol law on the table, and it is based on a report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which, a few hours ago, became accessible to representatives at a temperature of weight. The government's proposal significantly increases the availability of alcohol and thus increases alcohol harm. Nor is this underestimated in the explanatory statement of the government proposal, nor in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which states that this proposal employs the police, employs nurses, doctors and also increases the number of children's protection. I don't want to give our kids a glass of childhood. It's the legislator's job to protect the weakest. At present, the availability of alcohol is quite sufficient, and we do not need all these extensions in our country. Of course, there are good things in the proposal, such as less regulation of restaurants, and the right of small breweries to sell out is a good and worthwhile thing. It promotes craft beer production and Finnish small brewery entrepreneurship. But there are a lot of elements in the government's proposal that will significantly increase the adverse effects, firstly, that the government would like to see the volume of alcohol sold in the store increased to 5.5%. At this point we must thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, whose responsible majority, however, supported the current state of affairs at this point, at 4.7%. I would not like to bring four cells to the grocery store and thus increase the harmful effects of alcohol. Nor would I want sodas in shops because, according to experts, they increase alcohol consumption, especially among children and young people. There have been objections to the report in this proposal, and in particular this objection, which includes Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, the Greens' representative, is well founded. This objection also raises the problem of distance selling — the fact that the law prohibits distance selling on the one hand but does not prohibit it on the other hand. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, in which I myself have dealt with this matter, also went deeply into this problem of distance selling. We heard from legal experts who sent the message to the committee that this bill should be clarified in this regard and that it is currently unclear. Another aspect of this debate was that, on the one hand, the Constitutional Committee has already clarified the state of affairs in such a way that, in the view of the Constitutional Committee, it has now been stated that distance selling would be allowed. I personally see very high risks here, both in terms of national economic risks and in terms of public health risks. Firstly, the economic risks are linked to the fact that tax revenues would not be received in Finland, and public health reasons would naturally lead to a significant increase in the availability of alcohol. Alcoholic harm is already well known. They cause health problems, absenteeism from work. Alcohol is a carcinogen, as many speakers have said. Cancer, cardiovascular, liver and kidney diseases would increase. According to research data, one of the most effective ways to reduce alcohol consumption is to limit the availability of alcoholic beverages. Changes in alcohol mortality have quite regularly followed the development of total consumption of alcoholic beverages, which can be derived from Statistics Finland's data. Alcoholic liver diseases and related deaths have increased significantly in the long term. However, in recent years alcohol consumption and alcohol deaths have decreased. The proposed changes to the law would turn the statistics up again. In this debate, it also came to the fore that this volume of alcohol we are voting on this morning was not a matter of conscience and free voting for the members of the government parties. I consider this to be a very special procedure and I hope that each representative will himself consider his own point of view in his own heart and vote as the conscience says.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u300	Mr President! During the evening and early night, many representatives have become fortune tellers, predicting the future in a situation in which we are dealing with an overall reform of the alcohol law. It may be that this debate, which has taken place during the night of the past and in the early night, may sometimes come back. On this very basis, I came here to give a brief speech so that those who wish to read these sentiments from here sometimes through the Minutes would also be aware of the half of this legislative package, which is more than just 0,8 and distance selling. We have the oldest sections of the alcohol legislation in force from the year the Prohibition was abolished in Finland, the oldest sections. We have a current constitution for the year 2000, and thank you for the fact that this reform of the alcohol law has been difficult politically in the past, we are in a situation today where we are having a debate on the first reading of the overall reform law. A lot of basic services ministers have tried. Now we're the longest ever. There is some time, and you could finally say the time, to bring alcohol law into line with a 17-year-old constitution,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u315	Mr President! As has already been said in many speeches, it is a fact that there is a conflict between the grounds and the articles in this law. According to Article 1, the purpose of the law is to reduce the consumption of alcoholic substances by restricting and controlling the related business activities in order to prevent harm caused by alcohol to their users and to other people and society as a whole — in other words, to reduce alcohol consumption and its harmful effects. Well, that is not the case, as is clearly stated in both the opinion on the proposal and the committee's report, and Minister Saarikko, who presented the law in this Chamber, has also said to us. I appreciate the Minister's honesty in this matter, and it would have been fair to say so in the bill as well, and to say that the government is prepared to deal with the disadvantages of the legislative amendment. At the same time, the government should have made sufficient resources available to both the police and the social and health services to deal with these disadvantages, because, as Mr Ruhula said earlier, this law was made on the conditions of business, not on the terms of public health. If and when this has been the will of the government, it should have been well documented here in the law. It is also worth noting that the law has been adopted primarily on the terms of large breweries and foreign breweries, not primarily on the terms of domestic small breweries. While the proposal includes the sale of small breweries, which is an excellent change, the increase in the alcohol percentage of retail sales, on the other hand, is playing into the bag of large and foreign breweries. It is good to note, therefore, that the Small Brewery Federation has not driven a 1% increase and, according to a survey of small breweries, the majority wanted to keep the percentage at its present level. In the evening debate, we have been wondering why we have only been talking about this percentage here, why we are not discussing a broader debate on the alcohol culture or the problem of regulation, which is presented in this law. Well, I think it is because quite a bit of all of us are in favour of the proposed deregulation and the main disagreement concerns precisely this percentage increase and the indisputable disadvantages and the way in which it is viewed. There are different opinions in the Green Parliamentary Group with regard to the percentage. We all have the right to vote as reason and heart says, and I must say that it was quite a surprise this evening to hear how Group leader Jokinen of the Coalition said that, in a meeting that was about individual freedom, there has been no free hand in this matter for the representatives to vote as they wish, even though this has been done in all other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u320	Mr President! I promise that this will certainly be the last speech this morning. But let me just say to Mr Mikkos that it is wonderful that he is paying attention to this weaker and smaller one, but the little one is limping in your parable of it. I was in my office watching an old newspaper clipping in which you supported the release of cannabis, and that's a little harder than that, by the way. I saw, Mr Mikkonen, a newspaper clipping in which five of your six candidates for the presidency were in favour of the release of cannabis, and that is a bit more violent. When I checked with one of the detectives what happens if cannabis is released, that would lead to a terrible disaster, and here you are teaching us how to be careful with alcohol. Perhaps one day you should look a little in the mirror and not come and teach someone a few percent when you yourself are in favour of the release of cannabis. I hope that this debate will at least make some sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u321	Mr President! I have supported the release of medicinal cannabis because we know that it will help many patients in their pain, and I think that legislation should be put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u322	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u324	Mr President! As a follow-up to the previous speech, I would like to raise a few more points. Expert consultations have shown that the key principles of child protection are to promote the child’s positive growth and development. Working in a liquor restaurant and the service of possibly intoxicated customers is not even a good and safe environment for a minor under supervision. Work can be detrimental to the mental development of a young worker and, therefore, these provisions have not been assessed in terms of aspects relating to the protection of children and the working of a minor worker. I believe that the law comes from a person who sells alcohol and who gives it to him requires a minimum age of 18 years. You would think that at least some time will stop and think about the future of children and young people. There's been a lot of talk here about police resources. It is known that it is estimated that some 70 percent of police work is already involved in the safety threats posed by alcohol. Therefore, given the high resources already available to the police and the cuts in the police administration, there is a great concern that the changes that have been tabled should also have significant consequences for internal security. However, should we think about these proposals? A few words about the gray economy. The dismantling of bureaucracy is, of course, very good. The aim of this government proposal is to increase self-monitoring. However, even during the current law, the main supervisory authorities have found shortcomings in tax payments and accounting in a significant number of audited companies, and so on. The expert hearings have strongly highlighted that the government's proposal, when implemented, undermines the ability of the licensing authority to combat the shadow economy and financial crime. The impact of the proposal is therefore at odds with the government's anti-gravity measures. I therefore propose that the government should report within a year on whether the increase in self-monitoring has increased the shadow economy and prepare and bring to Parliament the necessary legislative changes on the basis of the report. But am I here in Parliament at 2.30 a.m. to talk about the grey economy first? No, I don't. I believe that health effects, and all their unfortunate consequences for health and well-being, should be the key factor, which is why MPs should assess that many points of this proposal are unacceptable. The growing concern in recent years has been the increasing consumption of alcohol by older people. One third of consumers at risk are alcoholics at retirement age, and especially for older people who have difficulties due to disability, problem alcohol consumption increases the risk of accidents and, in addition, the relative mortality rate of those over 65 years of age has increased. This is directly from the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In cancer and cancer, the effect of alcohol is one important factor. That's what we've heard. But the main reason why I have tried to stay awake and still take this speech is actually behind me that statue Work and the future. There's that little person in the middle that raises his hand. I think that every time Members of Parliament meet in this Chamber, let it be a reminder of whether what we are talking about every now and then is actually happening, that the interests of children and the well-being of children should always be at the top of our minds when we make decisions. This government alcohol package undermines the well-being of children and families. The increase in total alcohol consumption has serious direct and indirect effects on the well-being and health of children. Alcohol is linked to a large proportion of domestic violence. Alcohol consumption by parents in families is increasing. If it increases, it also increases the insecurity of both children and adults in families. Mother’s use of drugs is the most common reason for taking young children into care in Finland, and we know about alcohol consumption during pregnancy. Is it true that the comfort of middle-aged MPs, the fact that the convenience of the local store, the kiosk, should really take precedence over the well-being of children and young people over all the drinks in the world, including those stronger than them? In Finland, the availability of alcohol is not a problem. It is very close to every citizen, but what is the situation with children and families with children? When I think of parliamentarians who fiercely defend such a withdrawal as a change in the way they are made, the only thing I can understand is that they have not seen what happens to children, to young people, to what happens in families with children. If there were
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u327	Mr President! In practice, I have followed and been there throughout the debate and I have used one reply. In this brief speech, I would now like to raise three or four main points and points of view in my opinion. However, I would like to say out loud when Mr Tanus stressed the issue of children and young people and families at the end of his speech that we all know that now that Christmas Eve is approaching, in thousands, probably tens of thousands, in families, alcohol is ruining the children's Christmas spirit. I myself am very close to this issue through the world of life for children and young people. Mr President! In my opinion, the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is very well described in the committee's expert hearings by a number of social and health policy experts. According to it, this proposed alcohol law will increase alcohol consumption and human and economic disadvantages and reduce the sustainability gap in the economy. I do not think that these warnings from experts should have been ignored, should not have been ignored. Well, the committee has not done so. Thank you for that. After all, alcohol is a major cause of social problems and health problems. The increase in consumption will also increase the disadvantages for the family and family members of the user, and, as I said, these disadvantages, in particular, are directly and indirectly reflected in the well-being of children. Growth in alcohol consumption also increases socio-economic health inequalities. And as we have been constantly receiving research data, the situation for older people is such that the increasing consumption of alcohol is worrying and a trend which has significantly intensified in recent years. Then, according to the explanatory statement, this alcohol law will also increase the harm associated with human safety. That has been highlighted in the debate when it has been said that 170 police posts and officials and officials must then be assigned to Customs. It now has many such regulatory changes that increase the number of disorders, assaults, accidents, in particular to reduce road safety. These are the consequences, in particular, of shifting alcohol retail consumption to homes and streets by increasing the retail consumption of alcohol. This figure, if there were now Kaj Kunnas in the sports screen and showed key figures, would be 350 to 5000 more stores. Then you get alcohol from them, so of course you can see it. This reference to the sustainability gap was interesting. This has been very well stated in the opposition's protest when reference is made to the increasing cost of social and health care, police and rescue services, increased morbidity and mortality, and reduced working capacity and working efficiency. This too is worth keeping in mind. But, Mr President, at least in this context, the Social Democrats are not alone in the 'no' movement. We are also, yes, yes, and there are also these positive aspects in this government proposal, that these opening hours should be extended, that additional opportunities be created for independent small breweries, that is easier to advertise their own offers, that common areas for restaurants should be allowed to be sold, and that the licensing procedure should be significantly reduced. In fact, many of these are cutting red tape, and this is of course extremely important. In this regard, I believe that we all share a common view, although, admittedly, some of these will, of course, have an impact on the increase in alcohol consumption. But not everything can and will not always be won, but, of course, we must modernise the legislation that is lagging behind. Finally, this distance selling, which has now been discussed a great deal: allowing this distance sales would mean that Alko's monopoly would have a parallel retail channel, and, as has been said here, it would lead to the dismantling of Alko's monopoly and, finally, to the privatisation of the alcohol trade in Finland. And I would say this is a mega-class question. Representative Heinäluoma there many, many hours ago found that this is like no horse-sized thing but an elephant. I don't know how successful this description is right now, but it does say something. In distance selling, for example, it is difficult to control age limits, marketing clauses, tax collection and the informal economy. That is why, Mr President, I am also strongly of the opinion that the most important thing for Parliament, for us, is the safeguarding of Alko's exclusive status, and that is why this distance sales must be banned unequivocally. And that is how I understand that tomorrow, or this morning, in a few hours' time, there will be such an amendment, that we will then vote on it with a large number of votes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u328	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I regret that with my own contribution I am prolonging this pedigreed and multi-hour debate, but I have just a few words to say about the impact of this law on this restaurant industry. After all, the very positive aspects of this legislation relating to the dismantling of restaurant standards, the facilitation of operations and the reduction of unnecessary regulation are well known here, which is a good thing. But perhaps a slightly rosy picture has also been given that these changes would make the restaurants more competitive in relation to retail trade. That is not the case, after all. If we look at this development of the restaurant industry in the long term, I will now take a few key figures: In 97, i.e. 20 years ago, restaurants accounted for more than 20 percent of total consumption — 20 years ago, more than 20 percent. Today, the corresponding figure is 10%. So it has halved in 20 years, that is, the amount of alcohol we buy from our restaurants for our total alcohol consumption. Well, of course this means that employment in the sector has also suffered from this. So, if we were to have the same share of restaurant production as we had 20 years ago without even having an increase in total consumption, then employment in the sector would be about 15,000 more. And this unfortunate development is not changed by this law, given that, of course, although it is quite right, we are making it easier to regulate restaurants, at the same time we are still giving the retail store more chips for this sale. And I think it would be honest if this point of view, here at the mouth of the government parties, were also brought to light. A few have referred to this, and unfortunately it is the case that whoever wins here is the retail trade and the brewing industry, not so much this restaurant sector, especially now that we want to import these stronger drinks and remove this restriction on the way in which they are produced and linked to this increase in alcohol tax. And where is this EUR 100 million alcohol tax increase most visible? Yeah, it's right there in the restaurants. That continues to mean that alcohol in our restaurants is so much more expensive that consumers are, of course, going to a cheaper distribution channel, whether it be retail or passenger imports. In this respect, this draft law does not change this unfortunate development, which we have been pursuing for 20 years. As a result, if nothing else, at least employment will suffer. It is fair to say that, as far as this legislative package is concerned, we are now more in favour of making a little worse, underpants and public drunkenness than the restaurant issue, and it would be good if this aspect of the debate were to be made quite honest. When you look back on that debate at the end of summer and early autumn, quite a few representatives of the government party had the desire to make it easier for restaurants to have this VAT on restaurant delivery calculated. There were quite a lot of such demands, especially from the point of view of the coalition before the government's budget debate. Well, this proposal for the calculation of VAT on restaurant delivery then changed in the budget debate to an increase of EUR 100 million in alcohol tax. As a result, we come to the point that, unfortunately, the amount of alcohol in our restaurants will continue to be reduced in our total consumption, and I cannot in any way think that this would be a desirable direction, given that the declared aim of all the parliamentary parties in general has been that we are being directed specifically from homes and from the street to restaurants. This is something that will not be done in this motion. When the previous Minister, Mr Rehula, in his own speech, gave some thought to what it will bring in the future, I would at least like this matter to be dealt with in the future, if it continues to appear that, in our policy on alcohol, we are in vain despoiling this particular dishing out of the restaurant, which, I would ask, is now to be listened to when there is a general concern about this employment — this share of restaurant consumption, is, therefore, 60% of the employment in the alcohol sector as a whole. In other words, with a 10% share of total income, the 60% employment rate, so that if we wanted to make it easier for us here too on the tax side, then it would be better if we put them here on the restaurant side rather than making it easier for us to get under the underwear and make it more public. I hope that these things will also be made quite honestly known in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u329	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 22/2017 vp. The debate was suspended at the last plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u330	The general discussion on Section 24 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was suspended earlier on Thursday, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u331	Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy aims to strengthen Finland's international position, safeguard our independence and territorial integrity, and improve people's safety and well-being. These are very ambitious goals that need each and every one of us. As we have seen, the situation in the Baltic Sea region has changed, and this is a cause for concern. The international security situation has also deteriorated from a European perspective. I believe that the EU should focus on the essentials because it does not even have its own common defence. I believe that the EU should focus more on reducing the threat of uncontrolled migration, terrorism and radicalisation. Finland is only a small but nevertheless important player in this area, a country among others. An amount of EUR 219 million is proposed for the operational expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration. Concerns about the safety and resilience of personnel in areas with high levels of threat are justified, but at the same time a large and functional network of representations is very important to Finland. Investments in those countries whose political or economic importance is increasing for Finland must continue to be made. I think it is important that the Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council goes well and continues until 2019. The Presidency of the Arctic Council will be used to consolidate the Council's position as well as to promote Finland's national interests. I believe that this presidency should be even more invested in. After all, this is a unique moment for Finland to profile as an expert in Arctic regions. This brings all the countries of the Arctic to the same table. Participation in regional cooperation must be an important means for Finland to promote stability, sustainable development and economic growth, both in the Baltic Sea region and in the Barents region and in the Arctic region. The work should focus on Northern Dimension policy and diverse cooperation in Northern Regional Councils and projects supporting the Finnish Arctic Council Presidency. I welcome the fact that an amount of EUR 1.8 million is being proposed for this purpose. I also welcome the fact that the Committee on Finance added EUR 150000 to the fight against radicalisation and terrorism. Unless communication and intelligence work, it will cause difficulties for the whole operation. Finland is committed to the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. A further EUR 14.7 million is proposed for actual development cooperation next year than in 2017. I think this is justified. Regionally, Finland invests in Africa, which is justified, among other things, in curbing migration. Finland pays particular attention to the rights of girls and women, including reproductive health. This is a very important and correct effort. More attention must be paid to the effectiveness and effectiveness of development cooperation. The money must go to the right targets and to the real need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u332	Mr President! However, I would like to speak with such a night’s heart about Finland’s development cooperation funds, which are part of this Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ administration. This budget book proposes around €550 million for development cooperation itself and €886 million for development cooperation as a whole. Now that the economy is growing, Finland's share of GDP in development cooperation is falling. It is estimated that Finland’s development cooperation will be at around 0.38% next year — far from the target of 0.7 to which we have committed ourselves. Although the development appropriations are now being increased, the cuts that this government made in the early years were so drastic that we are indeed far from the target. I understand, however, that the government is still committed to this objective and wants to stick to it, but it will take decades before we reach that percentage, and it would therefore be extremely important for the government now to make a clear road map of how it is going to achieve it, and this government and future governments would commit themselves to it. What is also worrying is that Finland's aid to the poorest countries, i.e. the so-called LDC countries, has decreased its share of gross domestic product and that funding is only 0.16%, although we are committed at the UN to giving these poorest countries a 0.2% share. We were at this level and beyond that in 2015, when Finland gave 0.22% of its GDP to these poorest countries, and that is what we must strive for. So, who does Finland give help to? It is perhaps quite confusing to note that the largest single country in which Finland provides its development aid money is Finland itself. Last year, Finland provided EUR 118 million in development aid to Finland itself, while the next country that received the most assistance from Finland was Afghanistan, to which Finland gave EUR 27 million, and then Nepal, EUR 2 million. How, then, is this possible? This is because Finland has been a bit tricked around with this money in such a way that the cuts would not have looked as bad as they were, and this EUR 118 million will be spent here in Finland on the costs of receiving refugees and asylum seekers, that is, the costs incurred in Finland. This is a very worrying development, and I would like us to give that assistance to where it is really needed, and to where, for example, the root causes of the refugee crisis are at present, and not to use this money for the poorest here in the country. Well, we know that the government cut very hard on the organisations involved in development cooperation, despite the fact that these evaluations have shown that organisations are doing their work very cost-effectively and that even in very difficult circumstances they are able to work in such a way as to achieve good results. Only about 7% of all development cooperation in Finland today goes to NGOs. On the other hand, more and more money will go to financial investments — 130 million will be allocated from next year's budget to the article on financial investment in development cooperation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u335	Mr President! Our development policy is focused on improving the position of girls and women, and Finland supports, among other things, that more and more girls and women become aware of their rights, including sexual rights and sexual health, which, together with education, also have implications for curbing population growth. In Africa, for example, it is estimated that the population will more than double, and at present more than 50% of the population will be under 25. Adding to that the fact that youth unemployment is extremely high is an understanding of the pressure there on that emigration. I am referring to the word used by our political lecturer at the University of Helsinki: that emigration is only a once-in-a-lifetime strategy for the survival of young people. Development cooperation and civilian crisis management are increasingly linked today. Even in Europe, and hopefully here in Finland, it is understood how important it is that we stabilise and develop those areas so that people do not need to leave their country of origin. Thus, both these investments in development cooperation — and I have mentioned before that Finnfund is also doing an extremely important job — and civilian crisis management, which also supports the fact that society is such that companies that dare to invest there and do not have to fear that property or personnel will be stolen or killed are a whole. We must safeguard and develop these countries, from which this enormous pressure is coming to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u336	The general discussion on section 25 of the Ministry of Justice, which was suspended earlier on Thursday, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u337	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the government has proposed an increase of EUR 300000 to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman for the control of removals. These tasks will increase over the next few years as the negative asylum decisions in the administrative courts have been dealt with. I would also like to point out in advance that, if the number of police officers is to be increased, this should also be taken into account in the whole administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice as an additional need for funding. The funding should be increased to include courts, legal aid, the prosecution service and the enforcement of penalties. The restructuring of district courts is a significant and painful change. The aim is to ensure the quality of justice, the ability of courts to act in the face of changes in the operating environment of district courts and the tightening of the financial framework. This change must ensure sufficient territorial access to legal protection and the provision of legal services. These objectives must also be achieved by the end of the mobile police force, by the end of which no real savings of 6 million were made. However, traffic control was reduced especially in the case of heavy goods traffic. I welcome the fact that next year an increase of EUR 378,000 will be allocated to the Criminal Sanctions Agency to identify and prevent violent radicalisation and extremism in prisons. This activity has already been somewhat piloted and is now being consolidated with this funding. There must also be regionally comprehensive prisons in Finland as a whole. This will also ensure adequate detention facilities in Eastern Finland. If there is a feeling that the prisons are too crowded, we can allow foreign prisoners in their own countries to carry out their punishment. This would be possible but unfortunately too rare in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u338	Mr President! The extension of the scope of penalties will save EUR 0.4 million next year. This will be done by transferring tasks from the prosecution to the police. It is proposed to extend the fine procedure to drink-driving by transferring the total ban to the police. This proposed change would speed things up and improve access to justice. In the supplementary draft budget, an increase of just under EUR 0.5 million has been made in the operating expenditure of the Legal Register Centre. The increase is intended to cover maintenance and development costs for the information systems of the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u339	The general debate on Section 26 of the Ministry of the Interior, which was suspended earlier on Thursday, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u340	Mr President! Internal security is at the heart of the 2018 budget. Our good government takes care of the operating conditions of the police, the protection police and the Border Guard. However, special thanks to Minister Risiko's persistent work in a challenging economic situation still remain, because debt still needs to be taken, even though the direction of the ship has been reversed in the right direction. The number of police officers is not down, and thank you to this government for that too. However, as the chief of police has often inculcated us, the number of police officers in Finland is the lowest relative to the population in the Nordic countries. This is worrying because the change in the operating environment is a permanent fact. However, we have the same social structure in the Nordic countries, the same challenges — and in Finland fewer police officers than elsewhere. It should also be noted that the necessary intelligence legislation also requires additional resources for the contribution, and this has been provided for. Whether it is fully sufficient remains to be seen. A total of approximately EUR 1.5 billion will be proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior next year. At the request of the representatives of the Administrative and Security Section, EUR 250000 will be provided for the control of drug street trafficking and foreign surveillance in order to reach missing persons, EUR 220000 for the protection and development of the school police activities of the police services targeted at the various police departments. The amount required for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers will be reduced. That is why the item will receive some 45 million less than this year. Mr President! Taking care of internal security resources will be at the heart of next year's budget. The emphasis on internal security and the decisions taken in the budget debate on the fight against terrorism are already in the background of the spring debate. The operational activities of the police, the protection police and the Border Guard will be invested. In English, it means more women and men in the field. The implementation of the Action Programme against Illegal Entry will continue. In particular, the return policy will be strengthened by continuing and developing the effective return of illegal residents and persons who have received a negative decision, with the support of EU cooperation, by pursuing new cooperation protocols on return and EU readmission agreements and by speeding up the removal of offenders. I myself have done this work and I would like to remind you that the Finnish police, as long as they are able to return them, have always had effective and high-quality work. Mr President! It is proposed to increase the amount of domestic civilian crisis management capacity by EUR 300000. Once again, I cannot fail to repeat that civilian crisis management is one good way of affecting the root causes that drive people to flee and seek security or a better standard of living than they have in their own country. Further, the smoothness of the Finnish Immigration Service's permit matters, the adequacy of resources and the functioning of customer service and the regional office network will be ensured. I would also like to highlight the fact that EUR 5 million more will be allocated to the fight against the shadow economy and traffic control than this year. I would remind you that as terrible as the terrorist attacks are, and we believe that this kind of thing has happened in Finland — but the Turku investigation is still ongoing, but everyone is already acknowledging it — yet we have every day, not every day, but yet, people die in traffic and are permanently disabled in that everyday life. Therefore, traffic behaviour and driving fitness are
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u341	Mr President! This administrative branch of the Ministry of the Interior was already here in the early part of the evening on Thursday when the minister was present, and it is undoubtedly a very important administrative area. Indeed, the previous speaker mentioned the terrorist attack in Turku that took place at the end of the summer, and this security situation has changed in Finland. This is therefore a very important topic. But there are a few points I would like to briefly draw attention to in the committee's report. Firstly, it states that by the end of September, some 5,300 asylum applications have been submitted in total, about one third of which are applications submitted again by the persons who have been given the decision. The most common reason for the new application, according to this report, has been the conversion to Christianity or often also the exchange of sexual orientation. The committee's report states that according to the report received, this is a completely Finnish phenomenon, but there is no similar phenomenon in other countries. I wanted to point this out here. I'm a little concerned about this phenomenon. Secondly, the committee has made a small contribution to the control of drug street trafficking. It is a good thing that attention is paid to this. However, the amount could have been considerably higher. In the morning newspaper this autumn it has been mentioned that drug offences committed by minors have doubled in Pirkanmaa in four years, and the interviewed Chief Superintendent Jari Kinnunen states that in statistics most drug use offences remain a hidden crime because there are no resources to reveal them. Even so, when one patrol patrold 126 hours of field surveillance during September, 5 serious narcotics crimes, 14 common narcotics crimes, were discovered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u342	Mr President! Representative Ruoho spoke above about additional resources for the Tax Administration. This is a good thing, an important thing and is linked to the tax collection law already discussed above. The tax administration must be specifically digitised, modern and efficient in such a way that the risk of being caught increases, and resources are also needed for this. This is not primarily a police matter, since it is often understood here in Parliament that increasing the efficiency of taxation by police officers would result. It's not nearly as effective as it is. It's always late. Internal security is an important issue, and finally, President-in-Office, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Parliament has made some minor additions to these sections. These are also good additions in this section of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u343	Mr President! Representative Savio raised the issue of drug-related crime. A message in the same direction around Finland is heard from such small villages, municipalities where the phenomenon did not exist before. That is a very remarkable point, that is, thank you to Mr Savilo for bringing this up. Then you mentioned these phenomena, these asylum seekers. Surely the idea is whether it is a way to avoid it being removed from the country when you say that you have already changed your sexual orientation or feel that it has changed or that you are changing from Muslim to Christian. This week I attended a meeting of the parish council in Espoo and a meeting of the church council. If I don't remember wrong, it was at the parish council meeting where this...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u344	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 26/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u345	Mr President! As chairman of the Tax Section, I present this important tax law, the so-called Ready 3 project of the reform of the Tax Administration. This bill, too, is part of the dismantling of bureaucracy. The Government's proposal covers the last part of the extensive reform aimed at harmonising, clarifying and modernising the tax, appeal and tax collection procedures for all taxes levied by the Tax Administration. In addition, the reform will promote electronic practices and real-time taxation, which is particularly clear in the present proposal. The aim of improving the functioning of the Tax Administration, improving the legal security and information of taxable persons and reducing the administrative burden rests in the context of the Government Programme. I think, President, that this will make the taxpayer's life much easier. On the other hand, when this releases resources also in the Tax Administration, this makes life difficult for those who do not want to pay taxes honestly. For reasons of relevance and cost, the legislative changes are linked in time to the so-called "Preparatory" project, in which the entire information system and infrastructure of the Tax Administration will be reformed and modernised and introduced in stages from 2016 to 2019. The amendments concern a number of laws: income tax, tonnage tax, property and transfer taxes, inheritance and gift taxes. Most of the laws are due to enter into force on 1 May 2018, Part 1 November 2019. The Committee on Finance has therefore stated, on a proposal from the Tax Section, that the proposal is an exceptionally broad and important dossier and project package and should be considered from this point of view. The aim has been to clarify regulation, harmonise the procedure between different tax types and speed up and develop tax processes through the development of a new information system and e-services. In all three stages of this Preparatory project, the committee has consistently expressed its support for the reform and also supports the basic solutions of this proposal. The end of taxation in the past will also reduce the time taken to pay tax refunds and residual taxes. When the tax refund is now paid in December, as we know, most of it would already be paid in August. In December, perhaps only about EUR 2100 million would be paid for a total annual refund of around EUR 2.3 billion. On the other hand, the changes will also allow taxpayers to receive their contributions earlier than at present. The end of taxation by taxable person would also smooth the distribution of municipal accounts between months. This change is particularly evident in real estate taxation, where approximately half of the revenue, or EUR 850 million, can then be accounted for to the municipal tax beneficiary earlier than at present. In this respect, the end of taxation now depends on the taxable person. A key element of real-time taxation is that taxation ends as soon as possible after it has been delivered. Since the vast majority of taxes on income and real estate are in practice completed in June, a smaller number in July to October, there are therefore clear reasons for the end time per taxable person. The proposal also substantially modernises the regulation on the current tax increase, i.e. sanctions for failure to notify. In the future, the penalty would be divided into two parts: the so-called late payment and the tax increase. In some cases, therefore, a late payment would be imposed instead of the current tax increase. The determining factor here would be whether the taxable person submits a tax return or, on his own initiative, corrects any other non-compliance before the tax expires. This division highlights the seriousness of the failure to act and affects the amount of the sanction and the overall assessment of the case. The time when taxation ends is also relevant in this respect because it also fulfils the characterisation of a potential tax offence. When the purpose of the reform is to promote timely and correct access to tax information, it encourages the taxpayer to correct the information he himself knows to be incorrect or incomplete. This will reduce the number of jobs and build up the tax revenue initially in the right amount. Furthermore, the system of sanctions will be harmonised as far as possible with the system of own-initiative tax sanctions. The second idea behind the reform has been to clarify the regulation so that the grounds for sanctions are more formal and objective. Tax predictability has been a key principle during this parliamentary term and is an important principle for the taxpayer. These principles would thus reduce the discretion of the authorities and be more predictable and systematic. For these reasons, they have also been estimated to be more effective. In turn, a tax increase would be imposed where the taxpayer does not submit a tax return or self-initiately corrects a lack or error in the tax return before the tax expires. The increase would be 2 % of the increase in revenue but could be increased or reduced on specific grounds. The overall range would be between 0.5% and 10%. The need for changes to the existing provisions is obvious given the crude structure and the wide discretion that exists at present. Although the application of this provision is based on legal considerations, it is quite challenging to uphold equal treatment in practice. So there is a great discrepancy between the law in force and the practice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its opinion that administrative sanctions are a major issue in the exercise of public authority. The law therefore provides for precise and clear criteria such as the payment and the amount of the payment. In the Committee's view, the provisions on tax increases contained in the proposal meet the above requirements of precision, clarity and proportionality. For these reasons, the committee supports the proposed tax increases as such. In this context, too, it should be stressed that the scale is to be applied throughout its sector, including the 10% level. Let me add that, when taxes are not paid, we also have a rate of 7%, which is at a very high rate at the moment. In the assessment of non-compliance, it is justified to waive the assessment of the degree of negligence. Such a criminal guilt assessment is not at all suitable for an administrative solution and a mass procedure such as taxation. However, the committee stresses that the tax increase will continue to be a punitive sanction, as is reflected, among other things, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, the possibility of criminal sanctions should also be taken into account when considering it. This limit is regulated by the law in force in 2013 on a tax or customs offence imposed by a separate decision, i.e. the so-called ne bis law containing double criminality. In the Committee's view, this provision has been combined in an expert consultation with the so-called 'effective repentance' regulation. However, this is not even an indirect issue, and there is still no special law to justify such a procedure. That is the case in Sweden, for example. Therefore, without specific regulation, such a procedure would not be lawful. As has been said, the current procedural provisions on taxation and the Ne bis Act, mentioned above, provide a clear framework for action in situations where it is the duty to consider the transfer of the matter to criminal proceedings rather than to raise taxes. President! This law has been dealt with very thoroughly in committee, four consultations with experts from the Tax Administration, and this is the basis for the report. The report is not unanimous but contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u346	Mr President! As a general rule, the government's proposal to reform the legislation on taxation and tax collection should be strongly supported by the amendments described in the committee's report. However, the whole 900-page package, the last, completed 3rd part of which is just over 300 pages, contains a small detail of the changes in penalty payments, with certain problems. In addition, the draft law does not take sufficient account of how tax increases prevent negligence. These shortcomings would require measures to ensure, above all, that penalties and other penalties for non-taxation are sufficient to prevent the most serious non-compliance. Changes in tax increases may undermine this so-called generality and send a message that some heavy tax failures are not considered to be very reprehensible. Such a message should be avoided. President! A government bill would make tax increases more formal. The law would provide for a more precise level of taxation, which would reduce the discretion of the authorities. At the same time, the predictability of sanctions would be improved, which could then contribute to preventing negligence. All this clarification can be welcomed. However, a more structured imposition of tax increases and other penalties would lead to changes in their level. In some situations, tax increases would decrease and in others would increase compared to the current situation. This consequence is built into a government proposal, although it is not specifically designed to change the current situation. For example, the late payment for minor defaults would normally be lower than the tax increase currently imposed on similar defaults. It is therefore appropriate to assess the impact of changes in penalties on the so-called generality of tax increases. In some cases, the reduction of tax increases sends the wrong signal. The tax increase is an administrative sanction intended to penalise negligence. Above all, the aim is to prevent negligence, because the threat of a tax increase guides taxpayers to do what is right. It also sends a message from the legislator to taxpayers as to what kind of behaviour is undesirable. From this point of view, it can be considered problematic that the level of tax increases is likely to fall considerably in some situations. These situations are those where a tax increase is imposed in connection with a tax adjustment, for example as a result of a tax audit. According to the Government’s proposal, the total amount of tax increases would fall from EUR 13 million to EUR 7 million in these circumstances. The fall would mainly be for companies where tax increases would be halved to 5 million. The government's proposal has stated that the estimates are indicative. However, it is obvious that tax increases would explicitly decrease. This has also been stated in the Government's proposal: 'The average level of tax increases to be imposed in the tax correction would be reduced by all tax liability groups.' The problem is that the reduction in tax increases would apply, inter alia, to cases of systematic aggressive tax planning where the arrangements have been considered in Article 28 of the Tax Procedure Act. For the purposes of tax avoidance. According to Article 32a(2) of the Government’s proposal, an increased tax increase could be imposed in the event of tax evasion only if the non-compliance is repeated or the taxpayer otherwise manifestly disregards the tax obligations, but the Government’s proposal does not specify precisely what is meant by manifest negligence. However, it has stated that there is no need for an increased tax increase to be necessary in order to avoid tax evasion or a high level of non-payment in euros. In these situations, therefore, a basic, lower tax increase can also be imposed. Furthermore, the government's proposal does not specify when a tax increase will be imposed, for example, at 3 %, 5 % and 10 % respectively. However, its impact assessment assumes that the most significant non-compliances generally provide for a 3 % tax increase. It is therefore likely that the threshold for imposing a tax increase of 3 % higher will rise to a very high level. The fact that tax evasion is not necessarily regarded in the proposal as a manifest indifference, as I have just said, which would therefore be subject to an increase of 3%. For the above reasons, the law, as proposed by the government, does not fully correspond to its objectives. In the case of higher tax increases, the law is vague and the discretion of the authorities was not adequately controlled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u351	Mr President! Mr Harakka went through the problems of this bill very well. We are talking about a comprehensive reform which also contains problematic points. Among other things, the emergence of penalties in a new way is a problem. For example, changes in the level of tax increases should have been made to ensure that the most significant non-compliances could be prevented by adequate penalties. We Greens are involved in this protest. That is why I support Mr Haraka's earlier proposal for this bill and think it is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u352	Mr President! In response to Mr Harakka's speech, a few comments have been made. The representative Harakka has suggested here before and in public that this is a question of active repentance. That is not what this is all about, which would require its own legislation. In Sweden, yes, there is. But, indeed, modern taxation is using digitalisation, modern tax administration, also in terms of risk management, where there are risks. There is also a tendency to encourage the taxpayer, on his own initiative, to correct any errors that may have occurred. This is how this legislation works. I think that Mr Haraka's speech, as I said, reflects a little the thinking of the '70s that this would be a mere tax audit, often a police operation, but rather, a modern, efficient tax administration plays a crucial role in trying to prevent tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. I do not think that this proposal will change current practice in terms of consequences, but will bring about a fine modernisation of taxation. The tax administration must be given recognition for its reform and for its reduction in red tape. As I said at the outset, this makes life easier for the ordinary taxpayer but makes life more difficult for a taxpayer who does not want to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u353	Mr President! Representative Ala-Nissilä is not yet moving towards the 2020s, when we will have a broad international consensus and cooperation at government level, at the level of the public authorities and also at the level of political decision-makers on the abolition of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion and the closure of tax havens. Apparently, Mr Ala-Nissilä has not heard of the Panamanian papers or Lux Leaks or the Liechtenstein data leaks, [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u354	Mr President! I would like to say that the current government is making an effective effort to prevent aggressive tax planning and to implement EU directives very effectively. This is more of a question of domestic taxation. Of course, there's an international connection. But, as I said, it is particularly good tax administration and the exploitation of digitalisation, risk management in order to achieve the best possible tax revenue. It is also done to encourage the taxpayer to correct his own mistakes, and then, if there is criminal activity, then sanctions will also be imposed by law with tax consequences and also with interest on late payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-140.u355	Yes, this government has indeed been well suited by serving us the law of this effective repentance in the winter of 2015, which fortunately fell here in Parliament. Of course, there are echoes in this low tax increase of only 0.5%, which the self-repentant tax returner has to make. These people may be those who have hidden their funds in Switzerland or elsewhere in the tax havens, but the current more effective cooperation between the authorities has raised the risk of being caught in such a way that it is better to come forward, and that is where it is directly rewarded. The administrative register legislation, which you drove into a gun like a snake, hides assets abroad at the same time that tax havens are coming to light. Finland during this government is heading in exactly the wrong direction to prevent tax crime internationally.
