ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2017. In the debate, Arja Juvonen, supported by Sami Savio, has tabled a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1 and Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Silvia Modig, has tabled two proposals for a statement in accordance with protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2017. In the course of the debate, Mr Li Andersson, supported by Mr Pilvi Torst, has tabled two statements of opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u4	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u5	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2017. In the debate, with the support of Stefan Wallin Eva Biaudet, he proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, with the support of Mrs Biaudet, Stefan Wallin has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u6	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u7	Mr President! I meant to vote no.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u8	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u9	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u10	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2017. In the course of the debate, Matti Semi Silvia Modig has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u11	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u12	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2017. In the debate, Mr Immonen, supported by Satu Hass, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u13	The seventh item in the order of business is the topical debate on sexual harassment. The debate will be opened by Tuula Haatainen, the first signatory of the discussion initiative. Then, in the order that I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of responses, which will be reserved with a V button. An hour and a half has been set aside for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u14	Mr President, värderade talman! Ladies and gentlemen! Good Finns, Basta finländare! From day to day, we parliamentarians will meet in this Chamber to debate political issues. We twist and translate and often hear only our own thoughts. We are usually better at finding differences than what unites us. I hope it's different today. Today we can show the whole of Finnish society that Parliament has heard the concerns of the citizens that we are taking seriously the personal and painful experiences of people, that we are getting up and saying that too long a period of silence is over. Today we have the opportunity to work together, regardless of party, committee, constituency, age, gender, when the Finnish Parliament has an historic debate on sexual harassment and its eradication. When the whole of Finland speaks of sexual harassment, MPs and parliament cannot remain silent. That is why it is important that we hold a parliamentary debate on sexual harassment. I hope that each of us has come to this Chamber today for one reason: to send out a clear message that there is no room for sexual harassment in Finland, a common country for all of us. This is the responsibility of all of us, our politicians. It's every person's right to their own body. It is the right of every person to live without harassment and fear. It is a question of the safety of Finns. Mr President! In this speech I am not going to reveal my own experiences of sexual harassment, because this is not about me. This is not a matter of individual cases, but of a major structural and repulsive problem. Sexual harassment is a problem that has always been known to exist. The culture of silence had to live too long. The culture of silence has broken too many people. That is why it is important that we all break this silence together. The international social media campaign Me too shook the world. It led to several revelations of abuse of power and thus to many kicks, including in politics. Harassment and harassment are often related to abuse of power, and it is honest to say that most victims are women. A year is a time where anything can happen. Last November, a woman molester was selected for a top job on the other side of the Atlantic. In the autumn of this year, women and men on both sides of the ocean have publicly stood up against harassment. The world and Finland with it are changing for the better, and it is because of the greatest power of change of all: the courage of people and the desire to do what is right. Mr President! Two weeks ago, over 6,000 Finnish women came out. The dam was finally broken, and the silence ended — over 6,000 women, over 6,000 people, over 6,000 stories that are sad, shocking and unjust. They are stories of anxiety, fear, and how one who has suffered injustice is left alone. The Dammen Brister campaign showed in a harsh way how extensive and structural the problem of sexual harassment is also in Finland. In reality, the number of people who have experienced sexual harassment is many times higher. At the latest, these campaigns must awaken society as a whole, and now the eyes and ears must open.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u15	Mr President! It is a valuable and necessary thing for us to have this debate here in Parliament today. As stated in the discussion initiative, sexual harassment has been widely spoken around the world. I think that, although this is an unfortunate phenomenon, it is still great that the debate came a long way down here in Finland too. Thank you so much for the courage. If we look at what the public debate has achieved so far, a lot has happened: Jobs have started to announce that harassment is not acceptable. The major event Slush made a declaration of zero tolerance to sexual harassment, and so on. These are all important steps towards a disorderly society. As the minister responsible for gender equality, on behalf of the whole government, I can certainly say that we take the public debate on sexual harassment very seriously and the experiences people have told us about it. Sexual harassment is always reprehensible and is not justified under any circumstances. Mr President! As a practical measure, together with colleagues Lindström and Mattila, we have convened next Monday a round table of social partners and other key stakeholders to discuss sexual harassment in the workplace. We are looking for concrete proposals on how we can work together to promote a harassment-free working life in Finland. Of course, parliamentary parties are welcome to participate in that debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u18	Mr President! I believe that now, at the latest, in the Me too campaign, the last actors and bodies in Finland have understood that sexual harassment is a problem. However, I hope that: The 'Too' campaign has not raised the whole nation, but has been heard and seen that this has been a problem for a long time. It's not like this is coming out of some unexpected bush all of a sudden. Of course, the scale and extent of the problem have come as some surprise to this hall. It's good that everything comes out. Of course, the presumption of innocence must always be taken care of if names are to be published. In any case, there are already a number of mechanisms in current legislation that could have addressed these issues: the Equality Act, the Labour Protection Act, there are various organisations, institutions, the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman and others who are already responsible for monitoring these matters, the job market is already involved in these matters. It is incomprehensible that the scale of the problem remains this, even though legislation in this house has already been taken forward and implemented. This is the root of the problem: there is legislation, but in reality attitudes, policies, cultures ignore this legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the best thing we can do is to start with a broad popular movement to deal with the problem itself. Parliamentary action is certainly one tool for this, but it is still a completely inadequate tool. This is not just in the hands of the parliamentarians if we are talking about a problem that is cross-cutting the whole of society and which must be stoned to the roots. There is a need for the leadership of the Government and Parliament in this matter and for the management of the social partners, but it must be well organised. We must give a strong signal that, ultimately, this is about each individual taking on his own responsibility, either by being undisturbed or by being absent — not just by looking at someone being disturbed, but by himself. Then, especially for the leading people, whether it be a football club, a job or something, there is a responsibility and an obligation to build processes and procedures so easy that these cases become apparent. Today, the Ministry of Justice has launched a "Distortion-free" campaign for all Finns to which organisations are invited, regardless of the sector, whether it is a hobby or a job. I encourage this public-pressure and creative organisation to be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u19	And now it is possible to ask for the floor, press the V button. We shall begin with two-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u20	Mr President! About one in three girls and women have experienced sexual harassment according to the gender equality barometer and the school health survey. Every third mother, daughter and wife are familiar with unpleasant sexual behavior. Behavior that you wouldn't wish for anyone is commonplace for many people. The problem seems to concern women in particular, but some men have also been harassed. All of this has to change. Our legislation explicitly prohibits harassment. However, attitudes still need to be changed. Zero tolerance for harassment is the only possible starting point for our mutual behaviour. Everywhere, up to this house, we have to set a good example. There is also a need for concrete action. Today, the government has clearly taken the view that sexual harassment must be eradicated. This is happening in workplaces, schools and homes. The operating guidelines must be clarified and zero tolerance put into practice. It's purely a matter of good manners. Each of us should behave in a way that respects another person who does not frighten or offend anyone and who does not threaten the safety of anyone or violates the integrity of another person. In a public debate, at least sometimes we get stuck talking about whether to flirt or not. Of course, a flirt is allowed, but any approach attempt is no longer a flirt. Flirt that causes another person anxiety is not flirting, it's harassment. Harassment is unequivocally reprehensible. Harassment should not be silent, nor should anyone who speaks of harassment be silenced. In Finland, Mr President, everyone has the right to live freely and safely without any concern for sexual harassment and violence. There is no room for these in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u21	Mr President! Sexual harassment is one of the manifestations of violence against women and sexual violence. Harassment is power and violence. It is not a flirt, as Mr Kaikkonen said, and it is neither fun nor flattering. It has nothing to do with the victim's clothing or behavior. It affects a large number of people and is particularly damaging to vulnerable people, such as children and young people. It's all our responsibility to end it. The first step is to admit the problem, to stop the understatement and the guilt of the victims and to challenge the drunk-and-pass culture. The end of sexual harassment requires a change in culture and attitude, but there is also room for improvement in legislation. Harassment must be criminalized in criminal law, like sexual harassment. The legislation should also be amended as regards other sexual offences. For example, a lack of consent from the victim rather than used violence should suffice to fill the mark of rape. The minimum sentence should be increased to two years of imprisonment, when sentences would always be given unconditionally. Mr President! Sexual self-determination is a human right. It is up to us as parliamentarians to safeguard human rights in our country, and it is also up to us to set an example that sexual harassment does not take place in this house or in any of our immediate neighbourhoods. Together, we take responsibility for this and thus end sexual harassment in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u22	Mr President! The debate that started with the 'Too' campaign has highlighted the scale of the phenomenon of sexual harassment in our society. The first campaign has been followed by sectoral campaigns, through which thousands and thousands of people have reported the inappropriate treatment and harassment they face. For many, the subject is painful and difficult. No one should be unwittingly touched, subjected or humiliated. No one in our society should be afraid of physical or mental harassment or violence anywhere. This campaign, with its contributions, has made this phenomenon visible and has taken the bottom line from understatement. This is not a marginal phenomenon. In these cases, it is not a case of individual cases, misunderstandings or overreaction. These experiences are true, and this phenomenon is true. In this debate, therefore, we can instead concentrate on discussing the reasons and solutions. The climate of society that quietly accepts gender segregation should be broken. It is therefore important to hold a wide-ranging debate on equality. That conversation belongs to all of us. It's a whole thing. Harassment occurs in structures and in a society where it is given space. There is therefore a great deal to be done, both at the level of structures and at the level of attitudes and culture. We can set an example and thus guide this cultural change for us. We have a lot of work to do on gender equality in many areas of family care responsibility
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u23	Mr President! The debate is important, and I would actually like to speak in relation to people who are unable to participate in this debate either because they are not yet able to speak or use the language, or because they are otherwise ill. I watched a lot of news from the last few years, and I'd put... [25 seconds break in recording] I myself, as a lawyer in my work, have been in the insurance court and guardianship of the guardianship of minor lobbyists to assign this type of thing, where there has been sexual harassment and compensation issues of the next of kin, and I can say that when I read those documents, many of the events are still vividly in my mind. Unfortunately, I cannot tell them so that people do not become identifiable. But the question has been, for example, that one’s own mother or father has exposed his child to such chains, which involve more than one adult. This is all about Finland today, and it is absolutely shocking. I think this debate is justifiable, but somehow in this debate we have forgotten to highlight these people who are unable and unable to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u24	Mr President! [6 seconds break in recording] The blue future attaches great importance to this debate, which is taking place here, and I would also like to thank the courageous men and women who have dared to talk about this problem globally. This has clearly already had an impact on attitudes. Representative Kaikkonen raised statistics in Finland with merit, and it is easy to agree with them. This is unfortunately a major problem, despite what Mr Häkkänen rightly said, that legislation is largely in order in Finnish society. Globally, the situation varies greatly from one country to another. In a long-standing rule of law such as Finland, our legislation is in order, but there is still room for improvement in attitudes, unfortunately. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to provide good know-how for this legislation and for practices for those countries where it is not yet sufficiently regulated. There is a particular emphasis on the activities of homes, schools and jobs: how to raise children, how to treat genders, both men and women. And I would particularly like to highlight the role of the Defence Forces. There has now been a lot of discussion about how women's garrisons in particular are faced with sexual harassment or discrimination, and I hope that this will be dealt with and sought out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u25	Mr President! Sexual harassment is about the use of power and wrong use of power. [in the vote ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u28	Mr President! I have been a member of several Facebook groups where people have shared their experiences of sexual harassment. What has stopped most of these things. We in too stories have had the everyday nature of stories and their frequency. Almost every woman has had a story to tell, and these stories have concerned close friends, relatives and colleagues. In most speeches, the importance of violating the culture of silence has been mentioned. And that is really important, because after this 'Me too' campaign, no human being, whether in the lead or not, must ever believe again that he can harass or harass without being caught. In my view, this campaign is a strong signal that, from now on, harassment will be reported, it will be revealed, it will be made public and it will also be caught. Mr President! In his own speech, Minister Häkkänen used the term'management', which I think is very appropriate in this context. In my view, the decision-makers who are at the top of the hierarchy of power have a special responsibility to ensure that sexual harassment and harassment are eradicated in our own parties and groups as well as in all public workplaces, including the job we are now in. I am also in favour of reforming the legislation on rape in order to demonstrate a lack of consent and I very much welcome the fact that we are now going through and agree on more drastic measures to tackle sexual harassment and harassment in the workplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u29	Värderade Talman! Vi har en öjlighet att ändra världen. Den raus förändringen har startat i USA, den har kommit till Finland, inte en dag för tidigt. Nu är det upp till oss att att att vi i riksdage Oberoende av partitilhörighet visar att den ruus frågan är viktig, att Finlands riksdag vill att vi härefter i vårt land förstår att respektera varandra som människor, som individer med rätt till sin personalliga integritet — Oberoende av ålder, Oberoendde av kön, Oberoende av etniskt ursprung. Värderade Talman! Svenska folkpartiet säger nej till below former av trakasserier. Och jag vill också tacka alla dem som variant med och frimodigt vågat beratta om det man har variety med om. Det har variant hjärtskärande berättelser att lasa, och jag kan säga för egen del att jag inte Heller klarade av att lasa allt, jag var tvungen att ta paus. Och det om någonting säger hur allvarligt problemet är.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u30	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to Mrs Haatainen for her important initiative in the debate. After all, the problem is nothing new, but the new one is that there is the courage to talk about it in a broad and open manner. It is therefore appropriate that we should also have this debate. Just as Justice Minister Häkkänen said, and to which Mr Andersson also referred, we are having this debate under the responsibility of the management, analysing and considering how we can contribute to a better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u31	Mr President! I've received quite a few e-mails about this, and a 50-year-old woman asked me to tell her story. She told me that as a 13-year-old girl leaving for middle school in the fall, she had to take a bus to her school. His parents were divorced a few years ago, and the school was that far away. “The driver kept all schoolchildren, when he was very talkative and friendly. She always told me she admired me when I was so beautiful. When I got home from school by bus, he asked me to come with him to his destination. He talked and understood a nice 13-year-old, gained confidence in him. Until the first time he took advantage of me in his own car, and this continued throughout the middle school.” Then, in that letter, he describes everything that has happened during these decades. Finally, he says that he is now in the final stages of his healing process, at the age of 50 as a person, after all these experiences. This shows why we have to set zero tolerance here for sexual abuse, all its forms, harassment: it leads to this kind of serious
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u32	Mr President! Thank you for the debate initiative on an important issue. Thank you to the ministers for the good answers and for the very proper debate that has taken place here. Sexual harassment must have zero tolerance, as has been said here. We all share the solidarity that our society will be a safe place where no one has to fear being harassed. Eliminating harassment is a change of attitude that we can all influence ourselves. We all have a responsibility to intervene when we see it. The superiors have legal responsibility, but we all have responsibility for our conduct. Change will begin in this house today. We all contribute to the fact that this work is also being done in the communities in which we are involved. As legislators, we must set an example. I agree with the excellent speech made by Mrs Mere that we should also hear those whose voice does not otherwise belong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u33	Mr President! Harassment is a phenomenon that affects many age groups and many sections of the population, regardless of age. There are hundreds of thousands of young people in sports and sports. Hundreds of thousands of volunteers serve as their instructors, as coaches. They are doing a truly valuable job for which we must be grateful. It is a sad fact, however, that some persons are always infiltrated by these leaders, whose motives do not stand the light of day. During the last parliamentary term, the Education Committee dealt with the law on the criminal record of volunteers working with children. The government’s proposal estimated that such requests for clarification would reach between 20,000 and 40,000, but now only about 3,000 a year. I ask the minister responsible: how can we make the implementation and implementation of this law work better in the field?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u34	Mr President! Immigrant women are often the most vulnerable in terms of sexual harassment and sexual crime. This is due, among other things, to the fact that a woman with an immigrant background may have a higher threshold for going to report a crime. It may be because of circumstances, a country in which the police unfortunately cannot be trusted. This may also be due to a cultural background in which, unfortunately, the position of women is clearly weaker than that of men. I would also recommend everyone to look at the Danish document Sharialaki in Denmark, which showed that there were several mosques in which, frankly, the imams banned these women from contacting the police. I think the government should be vigilant,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u37	Mr President! Culture, like exercise, is such an area. Representative Mr Kiuru was well aware of sport and the possibility of abuse of his position. I would also like to talk about culture. As we have seen and seen, the film industry was the first in America to start approaching that area and now also in Finland the theatre and cultural people. Many young people study different cultural subjects. Their work is directed by directors and persons who have the opportunity to abuse their position. I would ask whether the Minister has a plan or a purpose to have a more open debate with the cultural community as to whether this phenomenon, which has been discussed among theatre people, may be more extensive in cultural activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u38	Mr President! The right to a safe place belongs to all of us. It is a prerequisite for man to be able to operate in his community and to implement himself. We too have raised the issue of sexual harassment to a massive scale in Finland, and it is now up to each of us to think carefully about how we can eradicate it. We must remember that a large part of sexual harassment lurks in the protection of the structures of power. A large part of it is sexually transmitted, when older men often use their position harshly in the working community to disturb younger women. I have to say this out loud. And the harassment reports made to Parliament's parliamentary assistants also show that there is a problem here too. We're gonna have to take this thing apart. Too often, public debate continues to say that it is the victim’s fault that he was disturbed — he was wearing the wrong clothes — or it was just flirting. We must all say together that this is not the case. Harassment is not flirting. Saying "you're beautiful" is perfectly permissible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u39	Mr President! It is important to discuss sexual harassment and to prevent it. In the case of a hierarchical organisation and a subordinate position, the more difficult the harassment is. But in the debate we must avoid excesses and the fact that the important issue is not subjected to political beatings. We remember how in the case of Helsingin Sanomat, seven male MPs were placed with pictures in the stocks without the opportunity to defend themselves. The only sure factor that united these representatives was their opposition to the gender-neutral marriage law. The case also found that middle-aged or older men in the provinces are responsible for harassment and that urban, academically trained men do not do so. You couldn't do much more attitude. This kind of news coverage is damaging an extremely important issue and we cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u40	Mr President! Det är ju nog faktiskt inte synd om pinen ox, utan vi ska tala om det som det egentligen handlar om. Om någon i debatten skulle påstå att det hela är överdrivet så tycker jag att du ska fråga dem: Vad tycker du är lagom? Varje fall är ett för mycket.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u41	Mr President! I will take two aspects of this debate. Firstly, I think that particular attention should be paid to the harassment of underage girls who are just growing up to be women, as well as, of course, to boys who are growing up to be men. In 2013, the Police College conducted a survey for the ninth graders, in which one in three girls and almost one in four boys had experienced some form of sexual harassment and violence, and this year a school health survey has been conducted in which the result is exactly the same for girls. What is worrying is that sexual abuse was more common among adults than among peers. Young people are not necessarily aware of their rights and find the routes they would contact, and I therefore believe that this should be taken into account particularly in school education. Secondly,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u42	Now we will take the Ministers' replies, and they will begin with Minister Orpo, for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u43	Mr President! I would also like to thank you again for this debate and for the discussion initiative. This is very important. I would also like to thank you for these campaigns, which have really opened your eyes to the scale and seriousness of the problem in our society. I would like to thank you for the good speeches that have been made here by the representatives. Congressman Rinne told me a touching, shocking story about a fate. The representative, Meri, raised the issue of people who are unable to help themselves or intervene, cannot find a way out of sexual harassment. These are important speeches and I am also pleased that we are having this debate together. Measures have also been taken within the government. The most important thing is that, at the end of this debate, we tell you that there is zero tolerance in Finland for sexual harassment and harassment. It is prohibited by law. However, it is quite clear that with standards and laws we will never be able to eradicate such behaviour altogether. And that is why I would also like to point out that this leaves each and every one of us — every Finnish, every Member of Parliament, every person on his own. We need to think about how we behave toward others. We need to ask ourselves, ‘ Is there something about our behavior that offends another? ’ And then we need to intervene, think about our own behavior, change it if necessary. But we must also intervene if we see that sexual harassment or harassment is taking place next to us. We must act decisively and set an example that we do not accept this in Finland. It is important that this debate takes place, and I hope that we will be able to draw conclusions from this without any party boundaries or government-opposition boundaries and thereby eradicate this phenomenon from Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u44	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u45	Mr President! Thank you for a very good discussion initiative. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, Mrs Mere's speech was very wise. He asked whether this debate could be extended to disability organisations and those representing those who cannot defend themselves. This debate, which we will have and therefore where parties are really welcome, is only the opening of the debate and more now this kind of employment-oriented: we will see what could be done there at the workplace more than is being done today. Actually, I likened this to the fact that when I went to work myself, alcohol consumption was quite common at the factory. It was not addressed in that way, the alcohol user was protected, it was done, until at some point it was realized that it was everyone's business to intervene in it. I was actually comparing this to it. A similar attitude should be found in the workplace, as well as in this matter, that it is addressed and that it is everyone’s responsibility: not only to take responsibility for its own behaviour, but also to follow the behaviour of others. I am not talking about stalking or anything like this, but something about the way everyone understands that this is the responsibility of all of us and that it is absolutely unacceptable. The aim of this debate is to look for concrete and solution-oriented solutions that we will find answers to this issue. Mr Mustajärvi's speech was, in my opinion, very good. This must not come about because we are pointing the finger at the fact that this is just a problem for a group. This is more a human question of how we treat one another, rather than how this becomes a male-woman issue. Everyone knows that of course it is this way that women are more affected — but this also applies to men. I do not think that this should be forgotten in this debate. In fact, I will end by saying that the objective must be change, not just a debate — which is also important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u46	Minister Terho, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u47	Mr President! In his opening speech, Mr Haatainen made a clear wish and message that Finland and this Parliament must send out the message, that there is no room for harassment or harassment in our country. This wish you have expressed is so reasonable and it is to be welcomed so that you can say it for granted, but clearly it is not, but work is still needed in society as well as here in our own Parliament, and blue people give you unreserved support to this work and hope. As far as the cultural sector is concerned, where does this whole international dimension come from? The 'Too' campaign started, so unfortunately it has become apparent that in the field of culture, too, in Finland, this problem is surprisingly common. As has been said, there is a great deal of legislation, but it is clear that my ministry wants to support the eradication of this phenomenon in the cultural sector in every way. I am pleased to note that the industry has already started: guidelines have been drawn up in the film sector to combat sexual harassment, for example, and around a thousand performing art professionals signed a petition to promote equality and integrity in their sector. It is important that this enormously sad phenomenon is faced, that the whole reality is faced honestly and is addressed. For example, I can do so for my part, and I intend to do so in the context of the objective discussions between the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Film Foundation, to raise this issue and to consider how we can, for our part, support the eradication of this unfortunate phenomenon in the cultural sector, if I dare say so, all the more repulsive when it comes to the sector that should promote civilisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u48	And now we will continue with the 1 minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u49	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Hatais for this important debate initiative and I would like to repeat her message: You did the right thing to tell me. You have a right to your own body. You have the right to live without harassment. Shame does not belong to a person who has been harassed, but it is always the sin of a person who has been harassed. And that is what we must make clear, ladies and gentlemen, also in this debate and in this House. This discussion initiative is now an opportunity to analyse the extent of this harassment in Finland and to take action. I would also like to thank the government that you have already taken action. Keep this job going and don't stop until it's done. But I share the concern that this is also a wider problem of attitude to which we are not simply concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u50	Mr President! In the ‘Method’, it has made it invisible I hope that today, too, in this Chamber, we will be discussing why so many people are experiencing sexual harassment, what it says about our society and the prevailing culture. Workplaces, educational institutions, hobby groups and so on need to have clear policies to tackle harassment. First of all, we need to be clear about what harassment is. The atmosphere must be such that harassment can be brought up and everyone dares to intervene. Harassment must always be addressed and must not remain the victim’s fault and shame. It cannot be that the victim or the bystander involved in harassment is labeled as a difficult person. The problem is always with the perpetrator, and this should be clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u51	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of this debate initiative. It is extremely important that we speak on this subject today. Sexual harassment is happening everywhere. It targets girls, boys, us middle-aged women and all genders just as much, and it is unfortunately often done by a close relative and sometimes by a professional. Checking or tightening legislation alone will not help if the notification threshold remains extremely high or if it is almost impossible to obtain the required evidence. The victim may actually fall into the position of the accused: he is criticized and judged, and the feedback may even be as offensive as the actual act. Bringing this up is always an act of courage. We must ensure that through education and guidance all authorities and professionals have the necessary capacity to support and guide the victim.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u52	Mr President! The zero tolerance of sexual harassment must actually be zero tolerance. This means that when we encounter or witness harassment, it should not be ignored or explained. It's criminal. It needs to be tackled. I would also remind you that when we talk to social partners, we need new openings to tackle this phenomenon throughout the kingdom. One such opening could be, for example, to present harassment correspondents at workplaces where there is cause for it, or even in all situations. I believe that this is something worth promoting. And when we talk about the prevention of sexual violence, I would remind you that sex without consent is always violence. It has been raised here in other speeches. This fact is not changed by flirting, a short skirt, hops or a shared double bed. It is not changed by generational differences, it is not changed by cultural differences. What is also essential is that our criminal law should be corrected to reflect this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u53	Mr President! A discussion initiative on sexual harassment is in order. Problems are solved through discussion and not by silence. It is good that this has been widely publicised, but it takes practical action to eliminate harassment, for example, from schools and workplaces. Everyone should have a chance to live without harassment. I would like to highlight the responsibility of employers to take care of their employees. In Finnish workplaces, too, zero tolerance should be taken into sexual harassment and communication efforts should be made to prevent harassment. Employers should endeavour to create confidential feedback channels to lower the threshold for reporting harassment. In addition to this, there should be support for harassment victims in the work community and the possibility of professional assistance. I very much hope that harassment will no longer be a problem for the next generations. That is what we can do right now. Sexual harassment, bullying, subjugation — these must not be allowed at all. Attitude education is already leaving the homes. In addition, Mr Meri raised the issue of disabled people,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u54	Mr President! As a new Member of Parliament in 2011, I was given the opportunity to take part in the introduction of new MPs, one of which dealt with gender issues, of which sexual harassment was the most important. When this section started, all my alleged new colleagues rushed for coffee except one. In a similar orientation in 2015, the new MPs were not even given the opportunity to choose because the gender equality section had been removed on the basis of time shortages. I think this is an awful good report of what that culture is in this house. We know that sexual harassment is happening here. We all think that's not a good thing. I don't know anything about sexual harassment here. Nevertheless, it is not on our priority list in this house where it should be, that this should be exemplary
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u55	Mr President! This debate, which we have had here with appreciation and great importance, tells us that Mr Haatainen's initiative has been very important. There must be a lot of sources in structures, attitudes, values to change our ways, but legislation can also be made. We have a law on equality, which is based on promoting gender equality, equality and respect between men and women. Now that this round table meeting is arranged, which I appreciate, there is one thought to be taken there. The Equality Act allows and requires all workplaces to have a gender equality plan if there are more than 30 employees. Could it be thought that these gender equality plans will be accompanied by a section on sexual harassment, which will be reflected in the plan, and a related programme at the workplace? This could be open to debate, constructive and, in a sense, proactive in the Community.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u56	Mr President! Sexual harassment and harassment are reprehensible, they occurred on the streets, bars or homes or at work, for example here in Parliament, in a hierarchical organization where they are highly reprehensible, because the victim is often in a position of subordination. They are also reprehensible, particularly reprehensible, when it comes to children. Mr Kiuru has already spoken about sport, and they are particularly reprehensible and shameful when the child is exploited, for example, by the coach. The fact is that young women are the largest group of victims of sexual harassment and harassment. That is a fact, but I fear that we have a lot of boys and girls and hidden crime, where there are serious sexual abusers. The Minister of Justice and I came directly from a seminar on sexual harassment and sexual offences. Do you see, Minister of Justice, that Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code, which deals with sexual offences, should be updated and examined in a broader context?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u57	Mr President! Thank you very much, Mrs Hatainen, for an excellent debate initiative. It is easy to agree with that and your suggestions. We must do everything we can to put an end to this harassment and harassment, and we must also be able to influence attitudes, because there are clearly distorted attitudes towards women and girls in this culture, but also towards men. According to the school health survey, 30% of girls in the 8th to 9th grade and 12% of boys have experienced sexual harassment in the last year. The harassment of young people belonging to gender minorities is even more widespread. According to the study, more than 80% of transversals have experienced harassment. This is extremely sad and serious because it concerns young people and their healthy development. Then I would also like us to sacrifice a couple of ideas globally to those girls and women, millions who will be exploited, bought and sold without a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u58	Mr President! According to a 2009 MLL survey, 12 per cent of high school girls experienced weekly verbal sexual harassment in schools. Once a month, 40 percent of the girls were disturbed, and 7 percent of the girls experienced physical harassment each week. These readings are unimaginably high, and it is quite clear that no child or youth should be subjected to sexual harassment, especially in schools. In addition to better addressing harassment, consideration should also be given to how to prevent it. Sexual education for young children, i.e. body feeling and safety skills, is part of the support for the child’s healthy growth and development and is one of the new national grounds for the early childhood education plan. In practice, however, this is not yet the case. However, the skills of body emotional education are important for later life and contribute to creating conditions for a world where children and young people grow up to be balanced adults and where sexual harassment is easier to combat. Body emotional education is one way to reduce sexual harassment, and I hope that the government will now ensure that every child and young person in Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u59	Mr President! Thank you to my previous colleague — I strongly support the inclusion of this type of content in the curriculum. I would like us to focus on the reasons and solutions in the debate, as Mrs Sara-Sofia Sirén asked earlier. It must be said out loud that many who harass or disturb have experienced the same thing themselves. This is not a defence, this is a fact. We need more money for the Criminal Sanctions Agency, we need more money for mental health work and also to help people with this type of thought distortion. I also hope that Parliament will draw up an action plan on the basis of today's study — the Council of Presidents, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, you will hear this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u60	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that we are here to discuss this important issue as a result of the debate initiative, but it is even more important that this debate should take place in civil society through social media. Many of the problems that have arisen here too are such that, although we have criminal law, the identity of sexual harassment does not, however, cover all the activities that are reprehensible and wrong. It is good that this is being discussed and that the threshold for wrong action is rising this way too. In other words, not all these problems can be solved through legislation. It is largely a question of a culture of action, of what is perceived to be acceptable behaviour, of good manners, of moral rules, and these have now been given attention in Finland and around the world through this civil debate, and this is an excellent thing. Let this also encourage all bystanders to intervene if we run into something like this and say that is not right, that must be stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u61	Mr President! It is wonderful that this Chamber is unanimous that such a debate was needed and that this debate is valuable. Unfortunately, however, I have heard claims that the Me too campaign has gone over and over — I do not think that is the case. Such claims are totally understatement and denial of the problem. In this Chamber and in Finland as a whole, we all need to recognise and recognise sexual harassment as a phenomenon and make every effort to eliminate it. We are committed and committed to zero tolerance with regard to bullying, violence and hate speech at school. In exactly the same way we need this commitment and interference in sexual harassment. I am very pleased that Minister Häkkänen has spoken and that you are paying particular attention to the abuse of power. And here we have already mentioned the sexual exploitation of children — it is a matter of trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u62	Irade the Talman! Den ox internetkampanjen har på ett förbluffande ätt avslöjat hur många som har gått och burit på sig och med sig så mycket under så lång tid. En vecka, ett år, en evighet, kanske hela sitt liv. Och därför har dammen faktiskt nu brustit och nu är det sanngen som flödar, och vi ska hoppas att den flödar tills dammen är tom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u63	Mr President! The first stage of bullying and harassment is words. We know that we live in a very outward-looking society, and that is the first step we can all take in bullying or harassment of the other. We judge each other’s appearance without knowing the reasons behind it, whether there are diseases, medications, and so forth. It's insulting. What is great is that there are a lot of men in Parliament in this debate. This was not the case in the neighbouring country of Sweden when the subject was discussed — this is a matter of appreciation to you. Unfortunately, as has been pointed out here in the debate, boys are not free from harassment either. It is not unusual that a mother’s age begins to tip off a handsome young man at some party or to kidnap him to dance against the young man’s will. That's why when we're talking about equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u64	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their valuable contributions and the government for the actions it has taken. Personally, I think that the most important thing for us is to look at the structures and legislation that currently create inequalities, inequalities that divide people into different groups and give them different rights that characterize them, which create stigmatism, thereby creating a space that also allows sexual harassment and sexual violence. It will then be important to highlight vulnerable groups: children, young people, people with disabilities, people from sexual and gender minorities. A concrete example of this is the transfiguration, which continues to await its renewal and which blatantly violates human integrity and the right to its own body. This is a change that we can genuinely make in this Chamber together and in a significant way take forward rights and also protect everyone's integrity and genuinely say that we did everything we could for every human being.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u65	Mr President! Silence is broken, fortunately. Since it is a cultural phenomenon, the use of power and inequality, it is necessary to address it and to change it. Culture, on the other hand, changes through discussion, example and rules. Unfortunately, sexual harassment also occurs in Parliament. It needs to be addressed, and we need to talk about it, it is our duty here. Mr President! This phenomenon cannot be brought to an end with a single great deal of success, but it is also important to consider the legislative means. Consideration should be given to anchoring rape as a result of a lack of consent and tightening up the obligations of the employers' plan for health and safety at work and gender equality. School activities must have a low intervention threshold for all sexual harassment, and education content must raise children and young people to respect their own and other borders. Mr President! We can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u66	Mr President! Bullying, harassment, sexual harassment — or even abuse — are always reprehensible. Man submits, he withdraws, he shuts up. I would therefore ask the government to clarify the potential share of our mental health problems today in sexual harassment, abuse or comparable issues. That number may not be very small. That is why it is really good to discuss and discuss the phenomenon elsewhere in this House, both in sports organisations and in religious communities. In many cases there is a culture of silence, even a culture of forgiveness, which is also unacceptable. Human dignity, humanity — they are inviolable, they always come first. At the Fourth of July service, the Archbishop said that we must look at another on a human level. It's humanity, it's equality, it's the culture of the heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u67	Mr President! Any form of harassment, whether mental, physical or psychological, is wrong and reprehensible. There is a zero tolerance, but there is a need for joint action to tackle the culture of action, that together we demonstrate, both at the level of the legislation, in professional and leisure communities and in the family circle, that wrong behaviour is not acceptable but needs to be tackled. Thank you. The 'Too' campaign and other campaigns, as well as the initiative which I myself signed, for the authors and the government to take an interest in the matter. Unfortunately, sexual harassment also takes place out of the eyes of others, in private, including through the Internet, social media and other direct communication tools. Although, for example, in social media, evidence is easily traceable and collectable, it is a crime of the plaintiff. I would like to ask: could this be re-evaluated at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice? In these cases, would it be possible to prosecute someone other than the plaintiff? So it would be a formal charge. Representative Ruoho has also made a legislative initiative on this in 2016. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u68	Let us stick to the one-minute response time so that we can have a few more replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u69	Mr President! Women's peace is an old concept in the Nordic countries, and the first women who were elected to parliament spoke of women's street peace. Would it be time for this 'Me too' campaign to be the strong enough force to put an end to sexual harassment, sexual harassment? Is it time? We parliamentarians influence attitudes, we influence the atmosphere, but we also influence legislation. And, admittedly, a great deal has happened since the first female MPs. Sexual harassment, physical harassment, is already in the law, but verbal harassment is not. Many women face different kinds of whoredoms, such as social prostitutes online, and street appearances are also criticized. Mr Häkkänen, would you think that this kind of verbal harassment against sex would also be criminalised by law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u70	Mr President! Mrs Tuppurainen said the same thing that I too wanted to say. We have the kind of harassment that is punishable by the Criminal Code, which includes touching, that is, pawing. But even repeated harassment that does not include pawing is not punishable. It can be considered as a matter of health and safety at work, but it does not protect schoolchildren, for example. I believe that this change would be important, as would the fact that the criterion of rape in criminal law would simply be a lack of consent. But I would like to point out why the scope of this issue has come as a surprise to so many people, why so many people have been silent. It is exactly as Mr Raassina said: so many people have been beaten so badly, have become somewhat lynched when they have raised these issues. Then, if we really want zero tolerance, we need to support and help those people too,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u71	Mr President! Sexual harassment is not a long step towards sexual abuse, and it is particularly worrying that children cannot avoid pornography and many other material even reaching their smartphones. These excesses are often also committed by companies. One of the feedbacks I received was that a mother went to the store with her young child to buy bedclothes and to her surprise she noticed that there was a large Finlayson sheet hanging on the back wall with this kind of Tom of Finland's so-called work of art, where a man naked presented his life with pride, and she was surprised to say, of course, how dare you keep such publications here on the wall when this is a family store. He could not remove the sheet from there with any other threat except by saying that he would report the child’s sexual abuse. Another example is that who needs gay men in leather pants in their coffee packages when going to buy food? These small examples simply show that there has been a change in Finnish society. We're being pushed into this sexuality all over the place, and I think
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u72	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Toivola. Not all the legislation is ready, the transfiguration has to be changed. Unfortunately, as a result of the 'Too' campaign, we have seen sexual harassment everywhere in our country in different workplaces, hobbies and schools. It is very good that this issue has been raised, because everyone who has been harassed must have the means to intervene in harassment and believe that these abuses will be raised and brought to an end. For those who do wrong, this debate and statements are a clear signal that this cannot be done in Finland or anywhere else. I know of a case in this house where harassment has stopped since the launch of the Me too campaign. There's got to be a change of attitude. From now on, it must be clear that sexual harassment will be caught. It's about each other's appreciation. Let's really be polite to each other, respect each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u73	Mr President! I myself have worked in the professional sector, i.e. nursing, where criticism, naming, commenting on the appearance and even violating physical integrity are, unfortunately, commonplace. Both colleagues and patients are responsible for this. It is committed by men and women, and harassment is experienced by both men and women. It is very distressing not to do your job in peace. While the reason is always and only for the person who decides to harass and use physical and mental violence to subjugate one another, more rules and solutions are needed for workplaces, for example. In the workplace, you have to behave properly. It is therefore very good that the social partners should be involved in this task and make our jobs better, although, in the end, the solution is in each one of us, in how we behave towards each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u74	Mr President! Sexual harassment is most common where attitudes and structures maintain inequality between men and women. The greater the inequality, the more likely it is that sexual harassment occurs and is experienced. The lack of equality is reflected in subdued power structures. Subdued power structures are also transferred to human relationships. Sexual harassment is one form of subjugation. The zero tolerance of sexual harassment does not undermine the ability of shy boys to make contact. A shy boy struggling with his uncertainty is very far from a position where he would like or be able to subdue anyone. President! The zero tolerance of sexual harassment does not prevent us from meeting each other on an equal footing by hugging, kissing our cheeks or touching each other. It does not forbid us to look each other in the eye at the same level, equal, kind, supportive and loving. But, President-in-Office, the zero tolerance of sexual harassment denies us a despicable talk about men, women and sexuality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u75	The following debatable statements: Parviainen Ulla, Jokinen and Haatainen, followed by the Minister's reply. After that, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u76	Mr President! Parliament is indeed a job, and we have made it clear in this debate that there is zero tolerance here. We have a very good guide in Parliament, "Instruction to prevent inappropriate treatment and harassment". It describes very carefully what is meant by harassment. Now I ask a question about the fact that in 2015 no one who has experienced discrimination and sexual harassment has taken the matter forward. The question is: why is this not told to the employer's representative, to health and safety at work or, for example, to occupational health care? We need to find the means to lower the threshold in order to move this issue forward, so that this issue can be put right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u77	Mr President! Sexual harassment violates the mental and physical integrity of a person, which is a completely undivided value. Sexual harassment is a repulsive and totally reprehensible phenomenon which has been taking place for far too long in various areas of society, including homes, workplaces and hobbies, and it is good that this issue is now being discussed. It is essential that this phenomenon be fully condemned and ways of gradually eliminating it from society and people's lives. All people, including girls, women, boys and men, should be supported and encouraged to highlight these cases so that they can be dealt with and removed. Every person has the right to decide his or her own sexuality and to live without fear of being harassed. This issue has been discussed in the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party. The parliamentary group in the Coalition Party fully condemns all forms of sexual harassment and is prepared to support all the means by which this issue is eradicated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u78	Mr President! I thank all colleagues for this good debate. This is valuable because this debate shows that we can together give back and support for the eradication of sexual harassment in our country. Thank you also to the government for taking action. Minister Lindström said that the most important thing is not just this debate, but that there is an objective to achieve our goals — I fully agree. Thank you all for these good speeches. However, the greatest credit goes to those women who have broken this silence and have put themselves on the line and told what they have been silent about for years, for every person must have the right to integrity, to live in peace. This debate has confirmed that we all want to be together to change and make a major change in attitude and behaviour in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u79	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u80	Mr President! Many valuable and courageous speeches have been heard here. I feel that this debate will leave a mark — in this house, in all of us and hopefully also in Finnish society. This debate has shown me in an exceptionally rich way the diversity of this disgusting phenomenon. This debate goes back to power structures, quiet acceptance, silence, indifference and also the position of women in our society. A number of points of view on the consideration of children, young people and vulnerable people have been particularly valuable. It is also good that we have not only talked about working life and educational institutions and even about homes, but we have talked about hobbies, about leisure time, and that wherever sexual harassment takes place, it is the job of the past world. This is not the way to go on. I believe that this debate, which has also referred to the global background of this phenomenon, that is to say the background to the Me too campaign, has been a global bridge between women in the world and, fortunately, it has also ended up with harassment against all genders. Everyone who comes across the subject in their own lives knows that the body remembers and the mind remembers. Perhaps it is good to take into account the change brought about by social media, which has so far been small in this debate, a new arena in which sexual harassment and harassment can take place, as I said in the pictures. There's no need for face-to-face contact. There is a new arena where you have to work equally. On behalf of the government, I would like to thank you for the concrete proposals in the debate, both in terms of working life and so on, and I am sure that we will return to the legal issues raised in the debate. On behalf of the Government, we would also like to thank Mr Hatais for the discussion initiative. I say that this is basically going back to legislation, to measures, but most of all to behaviour and heart civilization.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u81	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 8/2017 vp of the Audit Committee. It is now decided on the basis of the reports. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 1 December 2017. A debate on the 9th and 10th issues of the order of business will also be allowed in this context. The debate is about to begin. — Representative, Chairman of the Audit Committee Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u82	Mr President! There are three key, important reports from the Committee on Audit, which are closely linked to each other: firstly, the report by the committee on Parliament's budgetary and supervisory powers and the related statements, then the committee's report on the annual report of the Audit Office for the last year and the observations made and then the Government's annual report for 2016 — this debate was started last Friday. I shall now go to the matter of budgetary and supervisory powers. Here the committee has carried out an in-depth review of the development of Parliament's budgetary and control powers over recent years and decades. We have also gone through the critical points, we have gone through the criticism that part of the power is threatening to escape here from the democratically elected representatives of the people and move further away from control. A large number of experts have been consulted, including MPs, researchers, civil servants from previous parliaments, and a major study has also been carried out in this context, in which researchers from the University of Helsinki have gone through the changes that have taken place, both from a legal point of view and from a practical point of view. This report has been based on the conclusions recommended by the study, which the committee has gone through. The big change is that there has undoubtedly been a development in recent decades in which the traditional budgetary power of Parliament has been squeezed. These have been influenced by three factors: firstly, the attempt to consolidate the budget into larger entities, the strengthening of detailed regulation, the transition to profit thinking, then the different forms of incorporation in which part of the budget has been transferred outside the budgetary authority, and thirdly, membership of the European Union, in particular economic and monetary union and the associated use of funds, for which Parliament is not primarily responsible. It is the opinion of the Audit Committee that, as far as the current constitution is concerned, the whole question of how Parliament’s budgetary power — and also its control — will be achieved and whether there are some things that we can improve so that democracy in Finland works and citizens have a direct influence through their representatives. The first observation is that the Finnish Parliament is still very strong, among the strongest parliaments in the world. Parliament has strong budgetary power. The budget goes through in detail, as it did this autumn, and we can see through all the issues and the arguments behind the government's proposal. Similarly, the rest of Parliament's power, which also extends to foreign policy, is in principle in a good position to compare Parliament. But when there are problems, the committee has gone through a number of different entities and then decided to make four proposals in this regard. The first is that we must take this supervisory power seriously. As budgetary power is unquestionably reduced, compliance with control and a good opportunity to implement it are important that Parliament’s role can be what it has historically been in the Finnish Constitution. In this respect, the committee proposes that the work opportunities and tools of the committees be reviewed in order to ensure practical control, and also that the committees be consulted by the experts who want to, and that the committee receive the right information on this issue. We have already responded to this in the past in two ways that have been important solutions. In 2001, the National Audit Office was transferred to the Parliament. It has given this agency independent status and the opportunity for Parliament to obtain independent information on the state and activities of central government finances. And then, in 2007, an Audit Committee was set up, which has found its own way as an important implementer of this ex post control. However, we would like to go over this again if there are the conditions for strengthening the committee control procedure by emphasising the possibility of consulting experts. The second proposal for Parliament's statement is that we should go through the need for legislative changes which would mean that the European Stability Mechanism's financial support programmes should be decided on by the whole Parliament, not by a large committee alone, as it is at present. These could be hundreds of millions, even billions, of commitments that will be made for years and decades to come. It is therefore justified from the point of view of Parliament's budgetary authority that the use and commitments of such money should be approved by the whole Parliament. The committee's work has shown that this is justified in circumstances where the role of the ESM remains the current form of decision-making by the Member States. If, for example, the ESM is radically changed in the direction of the European Monetary Fund, then we should look at how its decision-making is organised in relation to Parliament's budgetary powers separately. The third draft statement is that Parliament requires the government to ensure that the preparation of EU affairs is up-to-date, so that Parliament actually has the opportunity to make a difference before things move forward in the European institutions. The background to this proposal for a statement is the finding that many subjects wish to come here very recently, leaving insufficient time for the large parliamentary committee or the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the special committees to deal with very far-reaching issues and to formulate positions in this regard. Fourthly, the committee proposes a statement on the preparation of the draft budget. We have been in a situation for several years that the government has not included in its draft budget the kind of permanent appropriations that Parliament has added to the draft budget during the autumn budget reading. In this regard, it is proposed that the draft budget should state the reasons for the government's failure to include any increase in the appropriations for the previous budget submitted by Parliament in the draft budget for the following year. It would therefore be made transparent that Parliament's will is inevitably taken into account in the weighing of the government. In addition to this, there is another important issue on the table today, and it concerns the Annual Report of the National Audit Office to Parliament. In this regard, the Agency has gone through a number of issues that are important to our work, including the knowledge base for decision-making, digitalisation, the problem of economic uncertainty in decision-making and, in particular, social and regional reform. Social and regional reform has been carried out in many different contexts. On its own, the Audit Office concluded in this annual report that regional social services activities and related information and indicators should correspond to the actual state of the provinces and that access to this information should be ensured before the social welfare laws enter into force. Similarly, the Audit Office was concerned that this cost saving target of EUR 3 billion is very ambitious in terms of size and timing. On the basis of its own work after the expert reports, the committee agreed with this assessment that the objective is indeed challenging. That would mean a cost saving of 10% of the expenditure used to produce social services compared to the current level. Thus, while this is a reduction in growth in the coming years, it is still a very big, demanding target when it is known that expenditure control measures will not be realised until several years later. The Committee therefore considers it important that this social reform should be accompanied by a viable and reliable monitoring system so that services, prices, the use of public funds and the creation of cost savings can be reliably assessed. The committee has also gone through one specific issue, and it is the annual audit of the office of the President of the Republic. The President's office differs from the other state administration in so far as its expenditure is not public. The committee considered it justified to look through this section, and one might say that the hearing was good and reassuring. As far as the President's office is concerned, things are also in principle in order. The Committee considers it important that all accounting entities are treated in a uniform manner also in the annual accounts and that the reporting by the Agency is made public. On this basis, I will present the matter to Parliament for discussion and reflection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u83	Mr President! In the work of the Audit Committee, it is essential to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent efficiently and efficiently. In the context of the Government's annual report, the committee has examined major issues such as the fight against the shadow economy, the use of moulds and moisture, as well as the related resource and legislative needs. The third major issue has been the management of the euro crisis and the responsibilities of the financial support programmes of the euro countries. For years, the committee has stressed that the responsibilities and risks of our country must be known. With regard to the euro crisis, the conclusion is that there is sufficient reporting but it is still fragmented. For risk management, risks are difficult to identify and the range of indicators is incomplete. The committee therefore proposes that it be adopted in order to outline the overall picture of the effort. Every year, the Audit Committee deals with the fight against the shadow economy and the progress of measures. The Committee considers it important that all authorities, such as the Tax Administration, which are important for combating the shadow economy, should: Customs, police and judicial authorities — operational resources have been secured. According to the expert estimates received by the committee, a major challenge in the fight against the shadow economy will be the increased flow of goods related to international internet trade and the impact of various payment methods, such as virtual currency. Resources allocated to the fight against the shadow economy, including Customs' resources, must follow the change in the international environment and practices of digital commerce. Customs will ensure internal security along with the police and the Border Guard. Customs' tasks include ensuring the smooth operation of international freight transport, collecting taxes and charges for the state, stopping pirate products and drug batches, combating trafficking in human beings and finding smuggling. These are important tasks that, when well managed, generate income for the state and prevent income losses. Customs control has been able to confiscate substantial quantities of drugs, expose crimes and catch wanted persons. The conditions for such action must be safeguarded. Other important tasks of customs include ensuring the safety of imported food, toys and other goods, checking of truck loads and ensuring road safety. In this decade, customs's financial crime prevention has been made more demanding by new phenomena of financial crime, such as international financial crime, particularly in the context of e-commerce. The Internet is increasingly being used for the marketing and marketing of high-taxed products to consumers, while circumventing the tax rules for these products and creating unjustified competitive advantages for operators acting in breach of the rules. The committee is concerned about the ability of Customs to acquire the necessary modern control technology and to renew its activities and its expertise in combating new phenomena in addition to the traditional fight against them. According to Customs, the current level of appropriations does not allow for the necessary purchases. This, in turn, directly affects the amount of tax revenue to be charged to the State. The committee has also gone beyond the legislation on combating the shadow economy and has proposed whether the tax number introduced in the construction sector would be more appropriate in sectors with a large number of foreign workers. Mr President! The moisture and mold problems of buildings are a national emergency. We have many shortcomings in the quality of construction and in the maintenance and maintenance of buildings. There is also room for improvement, for example, in finding the causes of health problems, as well as in studies, treatment and other support for symptomatic and ill persons. As an example of the need for development, the committee mentions improving the control and humidity management of work sites, developing the purchasing know-how of the contractor of the construction project and improving the efficiency of the use of the property maintenance document. The committee therefore calls for an important step to be taken to ensure that the government 'explains and clarifys, in a legislative way, liability issues in situations where damage to the humidity and mould of public buildings causes health damage, including due to delays or shortcomings in studies, repairs or information'. Mr President! The committee has also discussed the transfer of basic income support to Kela. Basic human security, basic income, is an extremely important human rights issue. Under no circumstances should it be put at risk. People with little means need it for essential needs, such as medicines and food. It should therefore be noted that the committee has identified shortcomings in the transfer of basic income support to Kela. Errors have been made in the transfer, but it is important that we also learn from these issues in the future, and the committee proposes to the House for approval: "The Parliament requires the government to examine and evaluate the experience of the current system in which: Kela is responsible for basic income support and municipalities for supplementary and preventive income support and social work, and reports to Parliament by the end of 2020. The chairman of the Committee, Mr Heinäluoma, presented all the issues that were discussed today, and one of the key issues in the report of the Audit Office was precisely this concern in relation to the major reforms — the reform of social and regional structures and the fact that it will certainly be implemented in such a way that it does not jeopardise people's basic needs and essential services — and the view that the functioning of IT systems and the transfer of information are essential to better integrate care paths and integrate social and health services. Very strongly, the expert hearing also raised strong doubts as to the basis of the government’s estimate of the cost savings of EUR 3 billion in the social welfare and health services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u84	Mr President, Fru talman! In international comparisons, Parliament has very extensive budgetary and supervisory rights, and that is a good thing. Every time taxpayers' money is spent, care must be taken to ensure that it is done effectively and effectively. Although Finland has one of the best administrations in Europe and the world, we also have new challenges to improve. These three reports on the table offer a great many points of discussion, but I personally choose to focus on one of the biggest reforms of our time, namely social and health care reform and regional reform. It has a very infernal financial interest for the taxpayer. Both the National Audit Office and the Audit Committee have quoted the risks, the financial risks and others included in the reform. The information and sustainability gap criteria set out in the preparation of the reform have also been found to be highly uncertain in the annual report of the Audit Office on social and regional reform, i.e. highly uncertain. Among other things, the report of the Audit Office states: "According to an audit carried out by the Audit Office, the reform involves significant change costs which are more automatic than the savings to be achieved by the reform. Even the knowledge base for change costs is incomplete. The evaluation of the IT costs of billions alone as a whole, their allocation to the additional costs of the reform and, in any case, to the actual costs, according to the Audit Office, is extremely difficult. Combining this with the slowness of the savings sought will increase the uncertainty about the impact of reforms to such an extent that the Audit Office considers it uncertain whether the reform will be able to reduce the sustainability gap." Following expert consultations, the Audit Committee also agreed with this uncertainty assessment and wrote in its report: "Like the Audit Office, the Committee considers the cost-saving target of €3 billion of social welfare reform to be very ambitious in terms of size and timing. This means cost savings of more than 10 % of the expenditure used to produce social services compared to the current level." And it is good to note that Finland already uses less than the average to produce social and health services among OECD countries and significantly less than other Nordic countries. It would be very unrealistic to think that we would be able to save another 10% of this. Mr President! Later this autumn in the fiscal surveillance report The National Audit Office said the same even more directly: "The government's savings target of EUR 3 billion for social and regional reform is not realistic in the light of current data." I mean, it's not realistic. And when this is accompanied by the government's idea of opening up services to the market, it is a great concern. One of Finland’s most respected social welfare experts, Aki Lindén, CEO of HUS, wrote an article a few weeks ago in Helsingin Sanomat, which can be considered a national emergency cry: "I have never seen Finnish health policy so confused." Another expert, Professor of Social Policy Heikki Hiilamo, warned in the Helsingin Sanomat on Sunday about the cost of running away, unfair distribution of care and voting for wealthy Finns on their feet. Mr President! Now that the National Audit Office, the Parliamentary Audit Committee and a number of leading health experts in our country have warned in advance about the increase in social costs, not the fall, and the deterioration of the whole system, no improvement at all, there is only one question left in the air: with what authority and on what basis is this reform still being prepared on the same basis? Mr President! Although the role of the Parliamentary Audit Committee and also the National Audit Office is to carry out post-supervisory activities, these serious comments and assessments that have now been raised cannot be ignored and should be taken seriously by the Government but also by the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u85	Mr President! I think there are three very important reports on this. The chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, explained them comprehensively. This was discussed at the beginning of the second sitting. Just a few thoughts about this whole thing. First of all, the report on central government finances: It is important that the state's finances and activities are well reported. During this parliamentary term in committee, we have drawn attention to the development of the annual report. It has developed significantly. It is important to note that the government currently has a strategic government programme. It has its own key projects and objectives, five strategic areas. It is important that this report monitors the implementation of this programme on the basis of the objectives and key projects of this programme, now and in the future. One of the reforms that Mrs Feldt-Ranta spoke about is, of course, the reform of social welfare and health care, which has been happening in Finland for ten years in different ways. It is certain that the Audit Committee will follow it closely in the coming years and assess the effectiveness of its reform. However, I would like to say that the biggest mistake that could be made now is, of course, to suspend the reform or go against its objectives. It is important that this reform should now be taken to the port during this parliamentary term in the best possible cooperation, aware of these challenges, which have also been part of the public debate, with a view, of course, to ensuring basic services for people on an equal footing, for everyone, including at regional level. Chairman! The Audit Committee commissioned a study on Parliament's budgetary and supervisory powers. Well, that's never really been done. As mentioned above, Parliament has developed its own supervisory powers by setting up an Audit Committee and already bringing the National Audit Office within the framework of the Parliament. This has been a significant improvement. In a certain sense, budgetary power has been reduced, even reduced, for example by membership of the EU, by the general nature of the budget, by the establishment of businesses, by the incorporation of companies. Parliament still has strong budgetary power in Finland, but, as has been said, it is important that it develops and strengthens its control powers here in Parliament. The fact that we have a strong control power brings its democracy, its democratic legitimacy. Where else would that parliamentary power have gone, or where else would it be? Of course there are many actors in society. The European Union is one. Of course, it has its own control. Perhaps the single largest player in the euro area is the European Central Bank, which is actually outside the scope of public scrutiny. It has its own private audit offices, and the European Court of Auditors has a certain audit mandate, but it has proved too narrow. The committee therefore considers it justified that the coverage of the European Central Bank's public external audit should be subject to further investigation. This can also be justified by the fact that the role of the European Central Bank in the Treaty, in the Treaty, in the Treaty, has changed significantly and expanded. This study, which we did, also covered other actors, including the interaction between social partners and political power. In this report, therefore, we note that the role and decision-making of Parliament is also influenced in a number of ways by actors outside the Parliament. These include social partners as well as other interest groups, economic power as a whole, increased lobbying and media activities, and pension companies are also mentioned. The Audit Committee considered it justified that social research should be continued in order to assess the use and influence of power outside the Parliament. When these parliamentary resources and party activities are viewed, the support of the parties is probably 30 million, but Veikkaus supports various other organisations in Finland for about half a billion. Tax subsidies for interest groups are probably in the same category. Employment pension companies: it ultimately has the tax-like contributions they collect. It also has a role to play, which is not normal at international level, for the interest groups, there in the administration. It is also the case that these sources of power should also be viewed here from the point of view of Parliament, because they exercise significant economic power. I am in favour of further research being carried out here too, as is the case with this European Central Bank. I welcome these reports from the Committee on Audit. We are a bit of an extraordinary committee, a smaller one. There are also a large number of former ministers and experienced parliamentarians in this committee. It is important that we in our work get deep enough. There is, for example, this mold problem, in which the committee has gone very deeply into this problem and has been able to produce recommendations that have played a role in the work of Parliament and the Government, and in this way, Mr President, we must continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u86	Madam President! The report by the Audit Committee on the Government's Annual Report last year is a very heavy reading and contains a lot of things that really attract great interest. Firstly, the committee itself states that reporting needs to be developed in such a way that, when it comes to such purely numerical issues, such as money, we need to gradually move on to monitoring how the objectives set have been achieved. This is a good and worthwhile choice. Of course, in economic matters, the indicators of economic success, that is, the amount of money, always make a lot of difference. It is extremely important that it is carefully dealt with how the amounts of money that have been allocated by the state in its budget have been used. But just as important is how these objectives have been achieved. This report refers, among other things, to the major reforms that are under way, such as the social reform, to the need for indicators of how these objectives have been achieved. When such major reforms are carried out, it is indeed necessary that such indicators be developed, because a report on the basis of a relapse does not help much. But when there are clear goals to be pursued and measured, then the consequences of the decisions taken will be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This has been the subject of a good debate on the special report of the National Audit Office to Parliament on the audit of last year's financial statements and the Board of Directors' annual report. The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoma, went through it more widely. There has been some criticism of the issue of social security and the fact that social protection would not bring savings. There will probably not be any direct savings either, at least on that scale, but hopefully to break and reduce the trend in expenditure growth, which is currently the case when our population is ageing. If we are able to respond by means of a social welfare reform to the timely access of people to the right level of care, then I personally believe that even if there is a small cost increase for a moment, in the final games it is human for a person to be admitted to treatment, but it is also good from the point of view of the disease that a person can get without weeks of waiting in line for treatment in the current system. I hope that, in this respect, social protection will bring equality to people. At the moment, our current system works in such a way that those who have money, who are in occupational health care or who have different insurance policies can get in line with a doctor but those with low income, poor, many families with children, many pensioners have to queue for weeks to get to a doctor without rush. It is a completely unhealthy situation — and I am sure you can even say in many respects that even the non-constitutional one — this model, which works in this way, that money has a bypass and that poor and low-income people have to wait in line. I personally hope that we will get people on an equal footing in this respect. Mr President! The share of the shadow economy in this report is quite wide. In April 2016, the current government adopted a resolution in principle as a national strategy for combating the shadow economy and financial crime until 2020 with the aim of reducing both national and international grey economy and economic crime in our country. In the middle of the debate last spring, the government adopted more policies to combat the shadow economy. The tax number system used in the construction sector was extended to other suitable industries, the status picture function was established during the current year and a report on the application of type approved cashiers to Finland was introduced. The Committee on Audit has dealt with these issues and, in this report, says that they consider it important that the fight against the black economy should continue with sufficient determination and that the fight against the black economy has been understood to be an issue affecting society as a whole — and that is how it is. Finally, honest people pay what dishonest people fail to pay. Whether it is a bigger grey economy or a smaller tax evasion, each honest taxpayer pays in one way or another. Internet commerce is also highlighted here in particular and the resources of Customs. Of course, we are pleased to note that, in line with the proposal of the government parties, the Committee on Finance has, at its meeting this week, proposed an additional EUR 1.5 million for the automation of the customs control of the postal line, since the work of Customs is... [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude] - Excuse me? — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u90	Mr President! It may be worth mentioning that all the reports of the committee are unanimous. As far as the Committee's proposals are concerned, it has been important that, since the Committee was set up in 2007, the committee has put all its proposals unanimously beyond the traditional, very different-minded government-opposition threshold. The legacy of Matti Ahte, the first chairman of the Audit Committee, has lived to this day and I believe that we will live after that. Unanimity has given strong force to the committee's proposals. They could then also be adopted unanimously in the Chamber. There are very large issues here which are still affecting today and which have left the work of the committee. Of these, perhaps one of the most important is the report by the first audit committee in 2007 on moisture and mould problems and the related proposals for measures. A lot of good has been done on the basis of them. The grey economy is also one of these. The committee's work this autumn showed that, when these proposals for the grey economy from that period in 2007 were submitted to the programme of the Katainen Government in 2011, with the exception of one point, I think they were in the process. In the construction sector alone, it is estimated that EUR 300 million in wages and salaries have become subject to taxation, and that is a huge amount and, of course, is also reflected in the tax revenues of the state. — Yes, I would also like to make it clear that dealing with moisture and mold problems is the work of the committee chaired by Tuija Brax in 2011. This time, too, these proposals are unanimous. However, there are difficult issues there, such as the reform of social security. After all, the report by the Inspectorate was very critical, and it is worth putting a big exclamation mark on the savings of the social welfare reform. It may well be that the original target, of the EUR 10 billion sustainability gap with the 3 billion social reform, will not be achieved at all, and on the contrary it may be that more expenditure will be coming, especially for the next parliamentary term. Knowing the cramped state of central government finances, it can force savings elsewhere if these economic objectives are not met.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u91	Mr President! I also agree with the view that it is very good that we have an audit committee with these guidelines across government-opposition limits, and that is why they must also be taken seriously, regardless of whether we are representatives of the government or the opposition party. Mr Heinonen used the words 'hope' and 'faith' on many occasions, but it is very important that we look at what has really happened. In this one report, the Audit Committee draws attention to what happened when basic income support was transferred to Kela. This was done as part of the structural policy programme during Prime Minister Katainen's term of government, and one of the reasons was that it would result in cost savings, that it would reduce both the staff and cost costs of municipalities. Well, years later, when the Audit Office and the Audit Committee have looked into this, we know what happened. Preferential expenditure grew by nearly EUR 90 million. In this report, the Audit Committee therefore draws serious attention to the fact that the financial justification for the transfer of the reform contained in the structural policy programme proved to be incorrect and, on the contrary, it was found that the transfer would entail additional costs in the future. The Committee also points out that the Committee would stress that changes should be re-evaluated in the event of material changes in the starting point of the projects and points out that the decision-making process must be based on adequate, high-quality calculations, precisely because both the National Audit Office, the Audit Committee and several leading experts have called these cost implications into question. Compared to this transfer of income support, the war has a thousandfold economic interest in ensuring the proper use of taxpayers' money, and that is why these concerns must, of course, be taken into account in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u92	Madam President! Finally, on this point, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 4 of the committee's proposal for a decision, in which the committee states that a detailed study will be carried out: when Kela is responsible for basic income support and the municipalities are here to complement this Kela system in terms of income support and social work, this will be the subject of a report by the end of 2020. It is quite right that this issue should be followed up, but categorically basic income support is fine for Kela. Of course, information systems need to be developed. When a new practice is introduced, in this case, in the payment of basic income support, it is quite clear that at the beginning there is squabbling. They are perfectly normal practical aspects. In any case, however, it is important to ensure that, when new reforms are introduced, they also teach us that we will be monitoring the matter — as the Committee on Audit has promised in its report that this will be monitored, and that is a very positive thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u93	Madam President! Mr Feldt-Ranta pointed out that I used the words of hope and faith in this debate on the savings of social welfare reform or that the pressure on spending could be reduced. Unfortunately, this is the way it is that I do not believe that anyone can make a 100% sure calculation with any model that in 2040 the cost of Finland will be this or 2030 it will be this. There are always certain uncertainties, such as the rapid development of medicine. On the other hand, it may in some cases reduce costs, but in some cases it will increase, in other words, treatments for diseases that have not yet been managed, and they will also pay in the future. Personally, I think it's great that this is going to happen. But I am quite sure that timely treatment, when in the current model of three weeks, up to four weeks is expected to get to a doctor if you get to a doctor in a timely manner, will ultimately be a saving, always cost-saving, when you get early treatment for the symptoms of your illness. It is also human, because there is a human cost, and that is why I personally support the fact that, in line with the current model, the poor and the low-income would not have to wait in line for weeks, but would also be able to get to the doctor faster than the current model. There are examples in Sweden that the freedom of choice that has been taken has reduced queues and people, regardless of their income level and background, have reached the doctor's office on an equal footing, and I personally consider it valuable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u94	Mr President! Indeed, the strength of the Audit Committee is that our reports are unanimous and that the efforts we are putting forward will have a strong weight in Parliament. However, I consider it noteworthy that the National Audit Office is very critical of the savings sought in the social welfare reform. This reform involves a great deal of risk and I myself am very concerned about safeguarding the services of our citizens and the well-being of our people in the future. Personally, not so much as Mr Heinonen believes that the government's freedom of choice model will bring the improvements that you yourself believe in. On the contrary, many experts have doubted, for example, that the extension of the service voucher system, as you have proposed, is threatening our relatively well-functioning special care today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u97	Madam President! Inspired by representative Heinonen, I will catch up with everyday life: Mr Jouko Vuohiniemi, an Ulvilan expert on elderly services, or President-in-Office of the Council, will write me a letter and share his concerns about the problems of public health care today for pensioners and the elderly. In that region, an old man cannot order himself a doctor directly. She first goes to a nurse who talks and evaluates whether an elderly person needs medical care. This is, in a way, about the implementation of the timely services raised by Mr Heinonen, which is very important: they must also be implemented on the public health side, so that this problem does not exist. Now we have the faster, better service-giving private, which is more expensive for that person, but it allows for the timely care of the well-off and thus has brought them. But the problem is real, and in that sense there is something to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u98	Mr President! In this debate, it is perhaps worth noting that the committee seems to have been fairly correct in some of its work, because actually there is no word out of any of these committee's actual parliamentary statements — I am thinking, among other things, of this issue of budgetary and supervisory powers, which is such a precise guide to our old tradition, which could still be done. It is good to hear this debate in the Chamber, which shows that there is a strong will in Parliament that these little precision controls should be carried out so that Parliament will remain the user of the steering wheel and Parliament will not be put in the back seat in parliamentary budget matters. After all, if the ESM were to remain as it is today, this spending would be brought to the decision of the great Chamber of Parliament as a whole. It is also important that the powers of parliamentary committees are taken care of as time develops. I will take one more important statement, which I believe will have a major follow-up effect. It has to do with this problem of moisture and mold. The committee's hearings have shown that, although much has been done, we know that this matter of moisture and mold is far from being in order. It may be disappointing how many good intentions have been wasted in such a way that there has not been the real change. I am referring to this situation in Jätkäsaari, where it has now been revealed that not only one new apartment building, a wooden apartment building, but more within a couple of years are suffering from moisture and mold problems, and it is shocking. The committee is therefore making a statement by Parliament which obliges the government to go through these responsibilities in construction and also in the maintenance of buildings. That when not all these moisture and molding and this advice has led to an adequate result, we must also look at this responsibility and make some new decisions that irrevocably reverse the quality level of this construction to where it should be in Finland, i.e. that we make buildings suitable for northern conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u99	Mr President! Mr Heinonen referred to the fact that we were discussing the costs of these wars and the potential risks involved in them, the Swedish model, and I am very familiar with this situation in Sweden: I have been following it very closely for ten years, and I have also visited Sweden several times over these years to meet different authorities on the ground. And it is just as Mr Heinonen said, so the model taken in Sweden has increased access to care for people. You told me right. But you are not, Mr Heinonen, telling us the other side of it, namely that the costs have risen significantly — significantly — in Sweden. Inequality has also increased in such a way that the services of well-off and healthy people have improved at the expense of poor, much-needed people. In addition to this kind of injustice, Sweden is now considering how to constrain the huge profit that is in the private care business and now flows into this taxpayers' money. This concern is also worth taking seriously in Finland. I have no objection to spending more on social welfare and health care. As I said in my speech in the toilet, Finland spends too little — less than other Nordic countries, less than OECD countries on average — on social and health services. But while I am in favour of increasing funds for social and health services, I am also in favour of good governance. No, Mr Heinonen, it makes sense when experts, the authorities in advance have discovered that the social welfare model that is now being designed is increasing costs, not folding them, that we should sweep such information under the carpet. Of course, it makes sense to take that into account in the preparation in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u100	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski spoke exactly as that ark usually is — especially in rural communities, but also in many cities — and it requires a change. Representative Karimäki demonized and brought out threats about special medical care. After all, there are certain systems in this legislation which restrict the use of a service voucher in situations such as on-call services. And that, of course, must be the case. No party is in favour of a system that would endanger, for example, the functioning of emergency services in any of our central hospitals. Mr Feldt-Ranta brought up the Swedish model, and I know and have also read that it has increased costs — in fact, because keeping a person in line does not pay at the time, but when he is admitted to treatment, naturally it will. But that savings come when she gets treatment in a timely manner and is likely to be less effective than if she gets worse and longer before she gets treatment. Personally, I am almost sure that in 10 to 15 years' time, in Finland, spending on social services will be more than in the euro than at present, but hopefully the angle can be slightly broken with this system, which is what we are now doing. The chairman of the committee made a good point of this second debate, which was here, that is to say this aspect of construction. But then, as a second piece, it naturally includes the maintenance, and in fact, when we have dealt with the matter more than once in the Housing and Environment Section, some of these indoor air problems are caused by failure to maintain, for example, air conditioning, cleaning, cleaning or even cleaning, and many more. So this is a very multi-generational issue, and that is why we need measures at many different levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u101	Madam President! On the subject of this social reform, which has already been taken up by a few speakers. As far as I am concerned, this reform of social welfare and health care certainly stems from the need that has long been attempted, when it has been found that there is a clear need for different parts of the country — rural communities — and then, if you look on the other side of a city with a huge number of jobs and a huge number of people and taxpayers, then there is a great deal of improvement in the way services are played, not necessarily very well there either. However, there is a lot of development and reform in this area. It is clear that what worked 30 years ago may no longer work. So, yes, we have to keep up with time. But what I think is too little attention in this debate on social welfare is that, in the case of these rural communities, what is the real reason for this reform of social welfare and health care is, to a large extent, that in the development of the economy these rural communities have come across it ten times in every case to the huge wall that no factory or any investment can be made. I have experience in my home country, very bad experiences, that when someone presents a 10,000-hectare protected area, a huge cry begins here in Finland, that it must be done and immediately. But let me suggest that there should be such an investment, that we get a hundred new jobs, then there will be terrible opposition. From then on, the ladybugs begin to find all the world’s winged ones to be protected, even if they never existed. Yes, we in the Finnish Parliament, in this house, have to look over their own glasses, which is the best in Finland, because the best in Finland today is certainly the development of the whole of Finland. If we just concentrate here in the capital region, it is certain that one day this bubble will burst. Then there is more to be written by the Audit Committee than indoor air problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u102	Madam President! I regret that I am only now joining the debate. There was another meeting there, but I wanted to take part because I am an alternate member of the Audit Committee and occasionally involved in these proceedings and I consider the work of the Audit Committee to be very important overall. Once again, with regard to these documents, which are now under discussion, I can say that important large entities have been dealt with. That is why I also saw a few words about them for my part. When I arrived here, I listened to the fact that there has been a lot of war here — and there is no need for it. These reports by the Committee on Audit, for example, have dealt with the issue of Kela. I think it has been very important and justified that this particular problem should be identified, which occurred at the time of the transfer of tasks to Kela. As it turns out, the cost ran out. After the circumstances that had been imagined that they existed when income support was transferred to Kela already changed, this reform was nevertheless taken forward. As a result, we've seen the cost run away. It is important for the committee to state that, and so does the fact that we all know that it is a very unfortunate series of events, which then came about, among other things, the failure of information systems and so on. That is why it is very important for the Committee on Audit to state in its own report that these should not cause people to come into situations where their livelihoods are at risk. These are important principles, and it is also good for the Parliamentary Audit Committee and, therefore, for the whole Parliament to say so. In that way, I think there is a clear link and a link to this current social reform. So even now we can anticipate the concern of all the experts, listening to the fact that surely these plans, which the government has had along the way, will not be as ideal as the government has imagined, that now the cost savings will be 3 billion, everything will be fine. On the contrary, experts strongly warn that with these models, this market-based approach, we will destroy our entire Finnish, well-functioning health and social systems. When these are such worrying expert statements that we have heard about the war along the way, perhaps one might learn from this that if it seems that it does not happen as the fine goals say, then it would be worthwhile to intervene early in these matters and then cancel if it seems wise. President! There are other important questions here. I welcome the fact that the Committee on Audit has also raised the issue of responsibility in the construction sector. It's very important. When there is a huge amount of feedback from people, there are more and more contacts about mold problems and other moisture problems — I do not understand how they still exist today, even in new buildings, our situation is not quite good — it is very important to avoid many tragic fates, including the clarification of responsibility issues and the fact that we know who is responsible and at what stage. I believe that this is an important statement from the Audit Committee as a whole. President! Then maybe a little more on a different subject. In my opinion, when the Committee on Budgetary and Control of Parliament has dealt with its own research, this is an important issue overall. I myself was a member of the Committee on Finance for a long time, and I have an interest in these matters as a whole. One of the things that we have considered a lot in this Chamber in some cases, and what is now the committee's proposal for a position, is the dimension of the European Union and that, overall, we ensure that we, Parliament, have the opportunity to influence the European Union' s affairs. Of course, we have much better principles than many other Parliaments — Parliament has already been given the opportunity to prepare — but many times this timeliness is a matter of concern, and it is therefore important that attention be paid to this. And what is most important is the observation of these particular types of funding programmes, which we hope we will not see in the future, but if they do, it would be very important for the whole Parliament to be able to take decisions on these. So here Parliament, according to this statement, requires the government to clarify the need for legislative changes that will enable the decision on new ESM financial support programmes to be taken by the whole Parliament, provided that the ESM's role remains as it is today and that its decision-making is taken by the Member State. We have often wondered that it would have to be so that, overall, when these support packages are decided on, the whole of Parliament can have an open debate on them in a public forum. At the moment, they are in a large committee. It is good that they are even there, but there is a need for this debate throughout the Chamber. That is why this entry is very important, because it has been the case that we have seen the third package of assistance and other forms of support in Greece already this period, and there is also a need for public debate on these issues. President! Although I have spoken for a long time, I would like to say one more thing. Again, it is a slightly smaller but important question of principle as regards the budgetary authority of Parliament. It is the fact that the committee states that, from now on, if it were not to happen — and I hope it would not be so bad — when Parliament always makes these own additions in December — all too often it will — then, in the following year, those parliamentary additions will have been cut and it will be thought that once again Parliament will exercise its own budgetary power by making the same additions that have been eliminated by the government, then there will be an important condition here that if this does not happen, if the Minister does not include these additions in his own motion and the Government in his own motion, then we must explain why. I consider this to be a wise principle. And since I had been a Member of Parliament for a long time and worked in the Committee on Budgets before I became a minister last season, my own policy of parliamentary guidance was that, by the way, I kept those additions to Parliament in my own motion when I knew there would be reproach if I did not, and they were important things anyway and they had to be kept. I believe that the least that the government and ministers will have to do if they do not exist is to justify why this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u103	Madam President! There is a very big issue on the table, and of course there is plenty to talk about for how long, but for my part I would like to thank Mr Heinäluomaa and also the representative. The reference to the fact that you raised an important issue, namely the quality of construction and also the responsibilities when there are problems with the quality of construction — the responsibility to whom it belongs. There are far too many legal battles about responsibilities and also the consequences, and they are then the people who suffer the most. Of course, I am concerned about what Mr Heinäluoma has already pointed out, namely that for the first time, the wooden blocks of Jätkäsaari — which are now quite unique in Finland — have actually started to build high-rise buildings, and they are, in a way, experimental technology in the fact that massive structures have been made of wood — were built as an experiment without weather shelters and, of course, have also caused those problems. I am also concerned that the microbe damage that was long known there, for about six months, was not addressed in due course. To wish they'd been numb. All in all, however, more and more attention should be paid to these indoor air problems in the houses, in the dwellings. It warmed me that last week we discussed the government programme, the Healthy Spaces package, which is now under discussion, and which will also be the subject of statements and next year's side, we will probably be re-introducing finished goods, and hopefully also information on how concrete measures should be taken in the coming years, so that we can achieve healthier buildings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u104	Madam President! I cannot fail to comment on this subject, because I too consider it very important that this issue be raised. It is certainly the case that we need the concrete measures and we also need the wisdom to see the whole, that, on the one hand, regulation, for example, does not cause any further problems, and on the other hand, that, to some extent, regulation is needed, because, for example, weather protection is the most typical example, that it just has to be, the point. Everyone understands, even with a common sense, that if there is no weather protection, then good will not be followed, a wolf and a second will be born, and of course this should not be the case today. President! What may be of some concern here is whether, for example, the resources at present are sufficient to repair these damage when, unfortunately, they occur: whether they are sufficient at the level of the municipalities, for example, these home schools. In Tampere, for example, we have decided now to go more programmed to look at these renovation needs for children's jobs, i.e. schools and day-care centres. There must be resources for that. In these times, we need to invest in these sites. But then, for example, in our own budget option of the SDP, we also propose the involvement of the State in such adjustments. That is a wise and sensible policy. It will bring both employment improvements and then a healthier living and living environment, which is why I think it is good to take these factors into account as a whole. President! I will return to the end: Of course, all of this is not just about money, but it is also important that the whole set of things is under control. It involves, in particular, this question of responsibility raised by the Committee on Audit and the clarity of these issues, which also contribute to preventing errors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u105	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament for its supportive attitude. And while I still thank the members of the committee for their excellent cooperation in preparing these reports, I believe that the consensus of Parliament, when we take decisions on the statements then, is a strong signal to the government and all concerned that Parliament is united in favour of these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-12-ps-136.u106	The 12th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 13 December 2017. The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure for the sole reading of the draft budget be as follows: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. This must be done even if the amendments are included in the objections. In its amendment, I would also ask the representatives to mention the budget initiative or the number of objections on which the amendment is based, as well as the author of the proposal. Amendments to Sections 21 to 31 shall be submitted to the central office by 4 p.m. on Wednesday 13 December 2017 at the latest and by 12 noon on Thursday 14 December 2017 at the latest. The proposals will be put together as hate to be distributed to the representatives. The proposals shall be numbered in each section and title, as well as in the general provisions of the detailed explanatory memorandum and in the general statement of reasons, starting with number 1. The debate will begin with a general debate on the entire draft budget. The detailed examination first presents the expenditure, then the revenue, then the general provisions of the detailed explanatory memorandum and the general arguments and finally the proposal for the application of the budget. A general discussion is first allowed for each section, followed by proposals for the section. Proposals for a specific section of the same representative may be made at one time by referring to the numbers in the booklet. A statement of support shall be made immediately after the intervention of the proposer. Once the proposals have been made, they will be put to the vote. The figures and other items in the section for which no amendments have been proposed shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance. Titles of revenue, general provisions of detailed explanatory notes and general arguments shall not be allowed to be the subject of a general discussion. Otherwise, the procedure is the same as when dealing with the main categories.
