ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u1	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u2	Mr President! The government's proposal proposes to change the information society cycle. The proposal relates to the Government's key initiative to streamline regulation. It proposes to dismantle some of the individual standards of the information society cycle. In addition, the Ministry of Transport and Communications will continue to study the standards of the Information Society Arch. There are also a number of legislative projects in the EU that will affect the information society cycle. The media sector is in constant transformation due to digitalisation and new and often global services for users. User habits are changing, and the competition for users and advertising money is fierce. The proposal aims to contribute to improving the operating conditions of Finnish media companies. In addition, further efforts are planned by the Government to facilitate the operating conditions of Finnish media. The proposal proposes to repeal the provision on quantitative restrictions on radio advertising. The provision on the obligation for television operators to reserve more than half of their annual broadcasting time for European programmes would also be made more flexible. The fee for monitoring television and radio activities would be increased in the case of YLE and reduced in the case of commercial operators. The proposed amendment is justified as FICORA’s oversight tasks have increased significantly in the context of the amendments to the Broadcasting Act, which entered into force at the beginning of 2013. As far as commercial television and radio operators are concerned, control tasks have decreased. Regulation on the accessibility of television software would be amended to include a voice and subtitle service for people with visual and hearing impairment, not only in public service and commercial interest programmes of the public service of YLE but also in national software licences that serve a wide range of audiences. The proposed amendment seeks to safeguard the right to receive messages for the visually and hearing impaired. The conditions for the granting and withdrawal of software licences for radio and television activities would be specified in such a way that the licence would not be granted if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the applicant infringes, for example, the provisions of the lottery law on the marketing of gambling. The Act would include a provision on the power of the licensing authority to withdraw the licence granted for television or radio broadcasting in the event of a repeated and serious breach by the concession holder of the provisions on the marketing of gambling or the broadcasting time of programmes harmful to children. The proposal also proposes to repeal the provisions on mobile communications services and mobile phones. Even after this government proposal, the Ministry of Transport and Communications will continue to study the standards of the information society cycle. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u3	Mr President! In my speech, I draw attention to just one point of this bill, and that is making software available to people with visual and hearing disabilities. If we are to promote equality among citizens, greater attention must be paid to accessibility of services. Accessibility means accessibility for all senses, not just accessibility, and today we are talking about accessibility. Every member of society must have the right to the necessary information in its own language of communication, and accessibility is the fact that products and services are designed in such a way that they are suitable for cross-cutting users. It is therefore to be commended that the sound and subtitle services of domestic programmes are involved in this traffic cycle. The extension of voice and subtitle services for the visually and hearing impaired, as proposed in the draft Act, in addition to public-interest software, to programmes broadcast on the basis of national software serving a wide range of audiences, is very much to be welcomed, since this does not only serve the hearing and visual impaired. For example, the subtitle service helps many groups of people besides those with hearing disabilities. It benefits older people, the mentally disabled, the Finnish as a foreign language, and so on. So we are heading in the right direction, but much remains to be done to ensure equality. From the point of view of equality, it is unfortunate that sports and music programmes have been excluded from this bill. The status of sign-language speakers is also not sufficiently taken into account. Sign language is a native language for deaf people, and for example Finnish spoken or written is a foreign language for them. So in the legislation we still do not take sufficient account of [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as a general rule, when two minutes have passed, we will try to move to this platform if there is any further matter. Now we are learning new things and then in the future we will stick to this more closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u5	Mr President! The information society is a good thing, and it is good that regulation is streamlined. On the basis of this government's leading project, it is proposed to change the amount of radio advertising, among other things, and I personally would like to see some decisions taken years ago on TV advertising being reconsidered, which in a certain way split them up into several parts, whether they are so justified today or not. I would like the Minister to perhaps reconsider this. There will be a lot of feedback, and when I myself know that I am partly responsible for it, when I have dealt with the matter in committee when this amendment was made, at least now I have a little conscience to clear up when the matter and concern have been raised that programmes may no longer need to be broken down in this way as prescribed by the legislation at the moment. Of course, this is reflected in these popular programmes, where, for example, Mrs Kaikkonen and others are performing. There are a lot of advertising breaks where, of course, the aim is also to obtain funding through it. Mr President! The positive thing, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out, is that we, especially in these main channels, are bringing up the issue of the visually impaired and hearing impaired, that is to say, to a greater extent accessibility. The extension of audio and subtitle services is justified on this side. It is also a good thing in this reform that the granting and exclusion of software licences is clarified. This proposal points out, for example, that the authorisation would not be granted if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the applicant is violating the provisions of the lottery law on the marketing of gambling — and not if the applicant is suspected of possibly committing a criminal offence against a group of people. These same regulations are also on the side of the withdrawal of the licence, and this will certainly clarify this situation a lot. But it may also be useful to highlight in this debate the fact that our rather generous regulation here on the traditional television side does put media companies operating in Finland in a different position from a competition point of view, especially in the context of activities on the Internet. I would also like to see that considered. A small TV company, which, for example, offers a TV programme on the Internet, needs to meet many of the requirements for advance checks and checks, and others, and at the same time this world is becoming more and more limitless in terms of viewing these programmes from many other countries, not to mention YouTube or services of this kind. Foreign TV channels, which are currently viewed by very many Finns, are also in a different competitive position. I hope that this will also be reflected on the fact that we will not be making legislation so that our domestic production and domestic TV channels will not be able to operate in these unlimited markets too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u6	Mr President! The information society cycle entered into force at the beginning of 2015. The Act contains all the essential provisions on electronic communications and its security, including the Communications Market Act. Such a wide-ranging law will have to be constantly updated, as changes in electronic communications are constantly taking place. The aim of the Act is to promote the provision and use of electronic communications services and to ensure that communications networks and communications services are accessible to everyone throughout the country on reasonable terms. The aim of the Act is also to ensure the efficient and undisturbed use of radio spectrum and to promote competition and to ensure that communications networks and services are technologically advanced, of good quality, operational certainty and safety, as well as of low cost. The purpose of the Act is also to ensure the confidentiality and privacy of electronic communications. I would also like to stress that it is good that general programmes for people with visual and hearing impairment also apply to MTV3 and Nelonen channels. Pursuant to Article 294, the fee for monitoring television and radio activities is amended to increase the supervisory fee of Yleisradio Oy to EUR 220000 per year on the basis of an increase in the control tasks of FICORA for Yleisradio. Similarly, the fee for commercial television and radio operators will be reduced due to reduced monitoring tasks. Mr President! Some 150 commentators, including radio and television operators, telecommunications companies and key authorities, were consulted. It can therefore be said that the field has been consulted and the feedback received has also been taken into account. After all, 31 opinions were issued. In general, the opinions supported the proposal's objective of streamlining regulation in line with the Government's leading project. This government proposal must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u7	Mr President! We have raised the issue of equal access to information here, and I am sure it is a good thing to have a fair right to information for both the visually and the hearing impaired, but I would also like to raise the issue of the geographical right to information on a fair basis, and this is evident in a great many respects, for example in terms of the visibility of television channels. We have operators who broadcast programmes on different television channels, mainly through the masts of Digita, but these channels do not appear everywhere because of the so-called blind spots, and not every mast has received all the canal packages. The situation is intolerable in that citizens would like to see more widely, to have more extensive information about programmes coming through different channels, but a very large number of packages, the basic package, currently only contains the basic channels Yle, MTV and Four — and that is what it really is. You can only dream about Sub-TV or FOX. When you ask the authorities about this, Digita, FICORA, and then the channel operators are playing it out to each other, who is responsible for this. These are based on the population base, not on the geographical basis, but on the number of inhabitants, but very poorly account is taken of the number of summer residents or the number of tourists that may exist in different regions, and I would, of course, like to draw attention to this. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister about this geographical balance: what can we do about this, if the channels are seen more fairly across Finland and these blind spots are removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u8	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, 2014 saw a broad process of reform of the information society cycle in Parliament. At that time, data protection in electronic communications and the legislation in the communications market were radically changed, but we know that time is changing and that the law must represent the time we live in. That is why this proposal to abolish standards in Parliament as a government proposal will eliminate unnecessary regulation and help electronic communications, the information society, to live within this time period. I am particularly grateful for the fact that for people with visual and hearing impairments, this government proposal brings an extension to the services, because the audio and subtitle services are expanding so that these subtitle and audio services must also be connected to the programmes broadcast under the national software licence when it comes to a number of different audiences receiving these programmes. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen spoke very well here in the Chamber about accessibility, which does not only apply to people with visual and hearing impairments — different groups of people and groups of people with disabilities benefit from these services. It cannot be just a matter for commercial channels, for MTV3 and for Channel Four, but it must be a matter for all communications networks to ensure that these accessibility issues are in order. However, in 2016 MTV3 and Fouren in the field of voice services already filled 100 % of this issue and Yle had a good record of this, but in the case of subtitles
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u9	Mr President! Most of it is a good government proposal. Firstly, this proposal involves a number of changes aimed at reducing the regulatory burden. In the future, the number of radio advertising would not be restricted by regulations and the European requirements for television programmes would also be relaxed. Moreover, a sensible change for the television and radio sectors is also a reduction in the current control fees. All of this strengthens the preservation and development of diverse radio and television advertising in Finland. On the other hand, there is criticism that this relaxation of the European requirements of television programmes is not going far enough. I believe that discretion in this matter should have been given to those involved in television. In addition, there could be two reasons for further reflection in the committee. These are the costs for software companies of a new voice and subtitle service obligation and in some cases the right of FICORA to refuse a radio and television licence. On the first point, this is an important reform as such. It is good that the new obligation to voice and subtitle services improves the fundamental rights of a citizen with visual and hearing impairment. The problem is, however, how the costs of this will be reimbursed. In the Government's proposal, the costs of fulfilling the obligations would be paid out of public funds only to YLE, not to private companies. This arrangement doesn't sound very fair to me. Thus, society increases the costs of private businesses and only compensates for its own expenses. The second bigger question, Mr President, is the right of FICORA to refuse permission if the applicant is suspected of violating, for example, the lottery law or the age limits. The Media Federation, among other things, has considered this possibility to be a proactive interference of the authority in freedom of expression. In their view, the criteria for marketing and age limits in particular are not sufficiently strong for society to justify the prohibition of pre-emptive barriers to freedom of expression under the Constitution. It might therefore be appropriate to examine whether this point should be clarified by law. Some sort of regulation is needed here, but is this going a little too far in terms of these age limits and the market?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u10	Mr President! The information society cycle is very broad, and digitalization, of course, changes these conditions very strongly, and this is a good thing. Equality is a very important issue, and this accessibility, audio and subtitle services, also in other programmes than Yle, really helps children, the elderly and, of course, those who speak Finnish as a foreign language. In that foreign country, people often wonder how Finns can speak English well, for example. That is because we do not dub television programmes as we do in many countries: in Germany Tom Cruise actually speaks German. So this is a good thing that language skills also develop as a result. It is to be hoped that these programmes will not be broken up by advertising in the same way as they are now, even if the regulation is reduced and the maximum time limits for broadcasting radio advertising are abolished. Here too the limit is met, and then the listeners will vote with their own ears if there are too many advertisements. So here we rely on the listeners and their views. The role of commercial operators will then finally be facilitated by lowering the FICORA's supervisory fee, and Yle will have to pay more for this. Of course, we must hope that the programmes of these commercial operators will also be as diverse, or almost as Yle has, that is, that it is not just entertainment. The connection of terminal equipment to the switch shop is allowed and will certainly contribute to digitalisation. But so much has to be said about this change, which is now strong, that, when we talked about, among other things, the fact that it is difficult in rural areas to see specifically the terrestrial channels, that is, the channels that come through terrestrial antennas, should help in some way to get more satellite boxes. Now we are seeing an increase in order services: Netflix, C More, HBO and so on. The world is changing, and should we move more to see through the mirror, thus removing these obstacles that really arise?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u11	Mr President! The situation of the visually impaired and hearing impaired will improve if this bill moves forward, and this is a very good and worthwhile thing. But like others, I also hope that the committee will pay particular attention to the rights of sign-language speakers from the point of view of availability. Of course, progress has been made. For example, Yle is sending questionnaire lessons in Finnish sign language and some of these larger elections have been sent and signed in Finnish. But still no sign language in Swedish is sent to Yle. This is something that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u12	President! The media field is undergoing a radical change. In certain age groups, the utilisation rate of traditional broadcasts is very low, and this trend is only accelerating. Not likely to be very far away, very many years away, when TV shows are viewed more online than in the traditional way. And historically, this magnitude of change can be compared to the invention of printing, the breakthrough of the radio, or the arrival of TV in living rooms. All of these have also been violent times of social change, which is what this Internet-based world is and will be. It is good that we react to deregulation, we are in the modern age. Commercial media today has a wide range of problems. Problems come, economic problems come, largely from abroad, and so at times it seems very unfortunate and unreasonable to be barking at the problems as if they were the wrong tree. I am personally concerned about genuinely local radios. In the mid-1980s, when local radios, this system, were created, they were full of ideals that freedom of expression would expand and that localism, regionalism, would emerge. But now we are in a very bad situation: Only the last few Mohicans can handle it. Instead, local radios are beginning to be in foreign chain ownership. This increase in services for the visually and hearing impaired is a wonderful thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u13	Mr President! I agree with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's heavy speech on behalf of those with visual and hearing impairments. As stated in the draft law, the extension of the obligation to voice and subtitle is "need to safeguard the right of the free expression of the visually impaired and hearing impaired to receive messages". However, it is regrettable that the intention is to exclude part of the software from this obligation. Above all, this limits the right of sign-language Finns to freedom of expression. The law should explicitly mention sign language as an alternative or as an addition to subtitles, and, in particular, direct transmissions should be obliged to provide sign language service. This would be particularly appropriate for sports reports — as it should be noted in these great days of Finnish basketball. Mr President! The last piece of work was the adoption by the previous Parliament of the Sign Language Act, which is intended to guarantee the right of sign-language speakers to receive services in their native language. This was an extremely important achievement for the whole sign language community. It was unfortunate that the historic decision and the parliamentary debate could not be signed to the very public affected by this decision. It still shows a problem of attitude, which is still reflected in this bill for the time being. Would it be appropriate, Minister, for the committee to add a demand for sign language service to this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u14	Mr President! Indeed, last season came this huge legislative reform, the information society curve. There was a lot of progress, there were many good principles. I believe that now that these changes are being proposed, the committee will be very familiar with these various changes. I am sure it will be all right inside, and then, when there are any question marks, I believe that the people in this Chamber who are in the committee will be interested in these matters. This is modern times, and for many reasons it is very important to get to grips with these issues. I would like to start by saying that I think it was very important that these speeches were made here on accessibility, and precisely that, as far as possible and also in this respect, special groups with visual and hearing disabilities and others can receive good service. And yes, I would like to draw attention, just as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Harakka did in that very previous speech, to whether the committee could now, in particular from this point of view, see whether there are any improvements to this matter of sign language and these in the course of the parliamentary procedure. I also saw Mr Kivelä's speech as important, where he stressed the role of local radios. I share this very same view, so I think it is very important that the local radios are well. After all, in recent years we have had quite a number of discussions about the need for the highest possible level of quality, pluralistic communication in Finland at all. It is a fundamental issue of democracy that we have a pluralist media field with all its potential, local radios, radios and televisions, and that is why this debate is always very necessary. That is why, Mr President, I would also like to ask one question and put it on the table. We discussed this with the ears of last spring, when the summer came, the last time, that is, these opportunities for commercial media to operate. It was a good thing that first of all, from the point of view of Yle, a stable financial solution was achieved, it was important, and once again I would like to thank the working group chaired by Mr Arto Satose, who did a very important job in this regard. But then on this commercial side: There was also some merit in the work behind it, Mr Harkimo did this study on the operating conditions of commercial media news. And this working group has come to the conclusion that in support of this commercial media news activity and in general for this development, to safeguard the conditions for action, we should end up with this kind of temporary funding, which would then amount to around EUR 8 million over the next few years. I believe that this was a well-founded, good proposal from this Harkimo Group that, like Sweden and Norway, we should act in this way in this situation when we know that these challenges are very diverse, the whole operating environment is being disrupted. That is why we too need to consider how we can in some way support the preservation of a pluralist, high-quality news offering in Finland and the possibility of the media in general. Well, it was, of course, a bit disappointing at the time when we were told at that reading in the Committee on Finance that this level of aid of 8 million will not come to fruition, but that there is now a proposal such as this that this support will amount to about two million, more or less, in the coming years. This is something we questioned a little, why the government has not now gone to the level proposed by this working party, why this level is now lower. I would also like to take this opportunity, because this has often been discussed here in Parliament, to raise this issue, because it is related, Mr President, to the very important point that all our media activities have the greatest possible scope for action now and in the future. It is a asset and it is at the heart of democracy that we have a diverse, pluralistic, communication.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u15	Mr President! Fake news is today's word combination. The entire Western media is in quite a discipline, where false information and conscious lies have taken on quite a large part in communication and human consciousness. These are also used in politics, including in electoral battles, as we have seen from the United States. When everything becomes a rapidly changing stream of consciousness, the threat is the loss of traditional Western quality journalism. Of course, this risk also applies to Finland. We have already seen how advertising money threatens to flow abroad, to foreign web sites that do not pay much attention to the quality, assurance or truth of the news. Therefore, legislative projects and government should be particularly vigilant. Therefore, the content of these draft laws on the information society should be given particular attention in order to ensure a pluralistic, diverse flow of information so that citizens have access to independent information from different sources. We have spoken here on several occasions in the past about the role of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. The Parliament has been very united, sometimes even after lengthy discussions, but in the end it has been united, in defence of the strong position and potential of the national Broadcasting Company. This is of course important in ensuring the quality of a pluralistic field as one point of reference when assessing the truthfulness of the news. Mr Viitanen also mentioned the situation in commercial news, and there is indeed cause for concern about what is happening on the commercial side, especially on the electronic side and on television. This new distribution of advertisements, including, of course, the difficult years of the economy, is leading to a situation in which the news industry in general threatens to suffer. However, it is an activity in which topicality and ensuring information require resources. The easiest way to do so is to reduce these resources and your own news production. Minister Berner made an extremely important decision when he set up an earlier working group on the role of YLE, a working group led by representative Satose, to look at this future of commercial television, news. Representative Hjallis Harkimo did important work here, and I myself had the opportunity to contribute. During that work last autumn, very carefully went through this change in the news field, and it must be said that it is very thrilling, how quickly this field changes and challenges traditional instruments. Of course, this applies both to the Broadcasting and then to commercial news. However, the Harkimo Group concluded with a number of proposals concerning both the possibilities for developing the news platform — i.e. the possibilities for developing services that would be applied to the entire commercial field, and in this context the possibilities for different forms of innovation support — as well as support for electronic and television news activities, thereby ensuring the continuity of different high-quality news broadcasts in Finland during the transition period. I agree with Mr Viitane that it was disappointing that, despite the fact that this working party was set up by the mandate of the whole parliamentary parliamentary work — that is, the work of the working party that Mr Satonen was drawing up — and it unanimously felt that this should be addressed, and although I have understood that there are few opponents here in Parliament to these proposals from the Harkimo working group, they do not seem to be moving forward. This money is very small, which we are talking about here, it does not matter to the state economy or to the budget economy. But it is clear that they are very important for the future of communication. Many times when we have talked about whether the YLE has some resources, whether they are off the market, there is reason to say here that these quality news articles and news media do need each other. The fact that we have spoken on behalf of YLE does not eliminate the fact that we also need commercial television news and that it has its own important role in the overall field of this pluralistic communication. There is a great risk that the crane will die before this swamp melts. That is why I would urge the government to assess this situation, and I too would like to call on Minister Berner, who in principle, I know, to take a positive stance on this, to explain to Parliament why these proposals do not now seem to go forward in next year's budget and whether, if this happens to be postponed, there will be a running-out of time and then there will be little use for these future projects if the news is to be driven down on the commercial side. So I would like Parliament as a whole to be able to get a report on where it is going and to take account of this extensive parliamentary work. I would like to thank Mr Turus, who was in this latter working group, which finished its work in June. It specifically dealt with the activities of YLE, the future of the public service tax and also the financing of YLE and concluded that the increases in the broadcasting index's operating opportunities will be implemented in the context of the 2019 budget. It was a valuable example that through the debate we can find common ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u16	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the whole government for this excellent proposal. However, I share Mr Savola's concerns about the coverage of regional television broadcasts. For example, in my own country, Lapland, there are quite major problems with the visibility of commercial operators now. It is said, of course, that with a stick in the eye that remembers the old ones, but yes, we must now return to the cause of all this. This is all because Yle’s network was once privatised by Lipponen’s government. This led to the formation of Digita, who has no social obligations in terms of visibility, and even doubts about this company that it would pay its taxes as a general rule on tax havens. This is an appalling example of what can happen at worst when such a measure is taken with regard to telecommunications networks. I would have liked to ask the Minister now: do we in the state have any mechanisms to support the visibility of commercial operators in particularly sparsely populated and remote areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u17	Mr President! I wake up every time the House mentions Lipponen's government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u19	Mr President! Yes, and still in the belief that the government and parliament of the country will bless such decisions: it was decided to privatise the Yle transmission network by the Lipponen government. Correct me, of course, if I am wrong, but in such a stable view, at least the undersigned has. This privatisation actually led to the formation of a limited liability company which was not subject to any social obligations and was completely out of control. That is the grain we are currently sowing, which is now being shown as a particularly bad commercial channel in particularly sparsely populated and remote areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u20	Mr President! Perhaps it would be advisable for the centre to have a small internal seminar on this subject, since these broadcasting decisions have therefore been taken within the Finnish Broadcasting Company. And then you have to ask when you look a little at all the politicians there, including the YLE, what has been thought of when this decision has been made. I can share this criticism with you, but the fact that this is being put on Lipponen is an injustice. But I believe that Minister Berner will settle this issue, if not in this Chamber, next Thursday at the centre of the group meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u21	Mr President! Yes, these things were decided within the Finnish Broadcasting Company, just as it was decided on transport matters, when the Finnish Broadcasting Company sold out the cars it owned and leased back the same cars. So here, of course, a little criticism can be cast as to whether it was worthwhile or not. The same is true of Digita, but it has certainly not been decided in this Chamber to go with Digita. And even if they hadn't gone along with Digita, the listening services wouldn't have worked any better, unfortunately. It is a good thing that we are now trying to draw attention to the fact that we are able to get to every cape, to rest and to get to the point of getting to the point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u22	Mr Alatalo, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u23	Of course, Mr President, the situation was that the money situation in YLE was rather weak at that time, and apparently it was then thought that we would get that amount of Digital when the network was sold. It is, of course, a little regrettable that this company has gained a monopoly in it. Yes, we have to look for reasons in many places. But now we have to find new ways, such as this satellite mirror or some other system over the Internet. This could help sparsely populated areas. Even Pirkanmaa has difficulties with the so-called Terrestrial antenna system. It should be ensured that citizens are also equal in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u25	Mr Rossi, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on the Commission's proposal for a European Parliament and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u26	Mr President! I think it really is the case that this digitalisation will help in this respect. And these early stages of the digitalisation of Finnish TV were indeed defeated in the evening school of Paavo Lipponen’s Government in the spring of 1996. Minister of Transport Tuula Linnainmaa presented a plan for the digitisation of television broadcasts, and here, when it was heard that the truth was heard, this is the case. This same general information also tells us that Yle’s internal assessment is that the company should not abandon the transmission network. But the government decided otherwise. I agree with...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u29	I think it is appropriate that, at this stage of the debate, the last response is now to be made — Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u30	Mr President! What is the point of arguing about this when there is a history paper which tells us how this is, and I believe that everyone present here has an interest in settling this matter? Minister Berner will probably catch a catch, so that the truth is shared not only in this Chamber but also with the entire Finnish people. But now I come to what should be done, and that is the essential part. From this point of view, it is important that we should also keep this regulation of commercial television activity in mind that it is an interest to be a channel with a wide service mission for the Finns and also this cover-up requirement. Now that this public support has been discussed, one of its conditions is that if you take public support, you commit that this channel will be visible throughout Finland. Those channels which have now left out of these general conditions can make these decisions, in view of the fact that if there is not enough revenue in relation to expenditure, then we will begin to cut back
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u31	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u32	Mr President! Freedom of expression and the press is the flagship of a civilised state, the unhindered dissemination of objective, audited information and access to information. They have to stay in a civilized state. But what guarantees objective, audited information and dissemination? Today is a fake media that produces its own truth. The fake media looks like and sounds like the right information and information. But it's not. Knowledge is very often an alternative or modified truth, in Finnish to put it simply a lie. I would like to ask the Minister: do you have any ideas on how to limit the spread of fake media and the dissemination of fake media on such a scale as is happening today? Indeed, at the moment it seems, unfortunately, to be getting stronger, and the saddest thing is that not all citizens seem to have the ability to distinguish fake media from real media, the Internet, when it makes it possible to use so many things. Faemedia magazines appear online, fake media broadcasts appear online, and if you can't draw a line on what is objective information and what isn't, then this media becomes the truth, and it's dangerous. In addition, Mr President, I would like to say a few words on the subject of sign language. First of all, sign-language services are part of today's agenda. Sign language is an approved language, and in Finland it is used by between 4000 and 5000 people as its mother tongue. In addition, 300 Swedish speakers use Swedish sign language as their native language. As a second language, as many as 10,000 people use sign language. In other words, it is perfectly justified that the needs of sign language users and sign language users should be taken into account. Today, I find little joy behind the pond in the United States, but one thing has been done there, which is now reflected in these natural disaster reports. Because there is a sign - language person standing there all the time next to the governor or next to the chief of police, or whoever is telling you. This would be one of those things that maybe we too would be all right to introduce. Otherwise, it would be a lot easier if, when the issues are officially reported, it would also be next to one of the experts in the language available in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u33	Mr President! This huge fake news boom has been brought up here, which is going on in the world. In the United States, you have to look at CNN if you want to see the views of the Democrats, FOX, if you want to see the views of the Republicans — who knows how Trump's view will come from there. In any case, I want us in the Nordic countries to have a good public service broadcast with reliable information and, of course, as a complement to good commercial operators. It is not Yle's fault that the opportunities of commercial operators have deteriorated, even though Yle has been called a cuckoo. YouTube, Google, order services HBO, Netflix, Viasat and C More, these will further increase their support in Finland, and thus the ability of traditional commercial operators to obtain the money has been reduced. There is now a lot of advertising money going on for these international players. The power of social media is very great, and this avalanche can influence political decisions. Members of Parliament or delegates are afraid to vote in favour of any good cause, because the rage of social media is so huge. That is why reliable communication is needed. We must not give in to this social brain. It can really destroy a lot of things. That's why we need good information. Good thing Yle's index increases are back in 2019, thanks to the Turku people. And Yle also pays a lot of VAT, which means that it is a good taxpayer too. With enthusiasm for what Mr Kivelä has said, we have lost the original idea with which the local radios initially started. They're no longer local radios, they're commercial radios and they're owned by big chains. I hope that the Ministry of Transport and Communications will continue to ensure that individual independent commercial radios can also operate and bring a multi-sonic picture of Finland both culturally and politically.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u34	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Alatalo for a good analysis of this fake media, as well as to Mr Heinäluoma. Now that we have returned to this valuable hall, it is good to remind you that we decision-makers also have a responsibility to see whether such false, erroneous or distorted information goes forward. I would hope that we can all commit ourselves to not spreading rumors, hearsay or social media about what someone has told us in reality. We have a responsibility to the truth. I hope that this could be an issue that we can all sign as responsible decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u35	Mr President! Indeed, the update of the information society cycle is already up-to-date, although it has only been in force for a few years. Both communication technologies, media markets and the culture of communication are constantly changing, and legislation must keep pace with this change. A good example of this change in the operating environment is the subtitles for television programmes mentioned here in many speeches. In fact, speech recognition is already so advanced that, in principle, it will soon be possible to subtitle all the programmes automatically. The challenge then, however, is to leave sign language in a cost-trap, with automatic subtitles at the feet. And as has been said here in many speeches, sign language is the mother tongue of the hearing-impaired, not written in Finnish, especially for children. Now the changes to the communication cycle are quite minor in themselves, and we will certainly soon have to come back to this law, at the latest when the EU finally makes its digital internal market work and harmonises, among other things, the rules for audiovisual communications. The major problem with the information society cycle — or indeed the communication cycle, that is what this is all about — is that it focuses on the old, outgoing means of communication. As we have seen, even the YLE has already reduced its selection of channels. In the next few years, audiences will continue to switch from monitoring broadcasts to streaming content. At the latest in the next parliamentary term, we will have to consider which frequencies currently used for television will be transferred to mobile communications and what the fair price of television frequencies will be. At present, the frequencies are quite affordable for the television companies. Otherwise, television programmes should not be broadcast to as marginal audiences as they are currently doing. Soon, here in Parliament too, we will have to ask ourselves what is really a radio programme or a television programme: is the technology or content crucial? We have to decide whether the regulations in the information society cycle apply to platforms for distribution of different types of online broadcasts or to the content of online programs such as podcasts or video bloggers. The most popular Finnish video blogs already have multiple audiences compared to the most popular Finnish TV shows, but the information society arc does not apply to them. The reason for the high ratings is that they are made directly for international distribution. Five million Finns are far too small for an ambitious smoker to secure advertising revenue. The behaviour of an English-based Finnish tubeter is not disturbed by the conflicting rules of the EU countries, as their main target audience is entirely outside the EU, in the United States. Mr President! One of the objectives of the information society cycle must be to promote the international scaling of Finnish content services. If we create too closed a national audiovisual market, that wall will at the same time close the rest of the world market for Finnish companies. And if $5 million is too small for a user, it is also for companies providing media services. It is symptomatic that media companies that dominate the world online come mainly from the United States. In the United States, the digital single market works. There, every startup has 323 million potential users. Scaling is much easier than in Europe, let alone in Finland. The media market will inevitably be globalised, and it will also extend to Finland. The challenge in the globalised media market is the future of Finnish journalism, especially if Finnish media houses become local deliveries by international online companies. It is not only a matter of getting reliable news from local, domestic events to Finns, but also of reporting international events from a Finnish perspective — or is the international owner of a global media company dictated? We also live in those famous interesting times in the field of communication.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u36	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Alatalo and Mr Haraka for their excellent contributions to the fake media. I couldn't agree more. But, Mr President, a word on sign language: The fact is that the rights of sign-language speakers are currently not sufficiently realised in our society. That is why I welcome the debate that has taken place here today, because now we all seem to have a common will to improve the status of sign-language speakers. There is still quite a lack of information, for I very often hear such comments that the sign language is not needed if there is subtitles. But as I said in my previous speech, for deaf people, Finnish or Swedish is a foreign language, and we still have deaf people who do not control Finnish and Swedish and cannot understand subtitles properly, a word from there, one from here, perhaps. On the other hand, every citizen should also have the right to get along and to receive information in his or her mother tongue. That is why I ask the Minister, like Mr Haraka: could the status of sign-language speakers be further improved in this draft law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u37	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here, as was the case with the previous one. I would also like to highlight this matter of sign language. I am not repeating the content of the previous speeches, but I would like to raise the issue of sport. We know the importance of sport, and especially when teams or individuals succeed, it can be of great importance to the nation as a whole. And once you have been able to follow the good sign language interpreters, who also sign with emotion and are able to pass it on, you would hope that this sporting side will be brought up again in committee when it is being discussed, so that sports broadcasts are also accessible to those who need sign language. Then another point which I would like to mention when I did not quite understand: Mr Wallinheim mentioned age limits at the end of his speech, and did he mention broadcasting times, but, in general, I would also like to see this matter raised in committee, that age limits and transmission times should be raised. Generally speaking, there is no harm or danger if some things are experienced or seen at a later age, but instead it seems that children and young people today see and experience far too much also through television screens
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u40	Mr. Speaker! There has been a good debate here. In particular, the representative of the plant there described well the field we are going to. I personally believe that the key to media success is precisely through deregulation in this global world. In this debate there has been a feeling that we could succeed even more in the future by restricting this activity — fake media, fake news, have been on display here — and I really cannot believe that we have the potential, at least in a proper way, to tackle it more than we do at the moment. For example, we are not giving licences to, for example, such an actor who may or may not be guilty of inciting a group of people. Personally, I would stress media literacy, which has been overlooked in this debate. More and more, we must ensure that our children, the adults of the future, have a natural knowledge of all knowledge, including weighing and assessing whether it is something that can be trusted and how it should be used. It is the only way to succeed in a situation where we are no longer able to control this great amount of information. That also applies a little to this issue of age limits. I understand that it is important and good that, at certain times, our TV does not become a certain kind of show, but it does not work today, unfortunately — for example, on the Internet, these children, who may be most affected by these age limits, are all the time and are watching them, and this is the other side. Then this issue of antenna net: it is important for the countryside that we ensure that it works, but as the representative of the plant has pointed out, we need to: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u43	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u44	Mr President! I'll pick up where the last representative left off. In the Parliament, social reform was stuck in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the main reasons for this were equality, which, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was that equality for both regions and people would not have been achieved, and neither would freedom of choice. In my opinion, quite a few homes in Eastern Finland in the summer after May, many channels ceased to operate because, for business reasons, TV companies no longer agreed to purchase Digita’s services. I do not know whether Digita's pricing is flawed or whether there is a problem with the register of television companies, but I do think that this is a problem with the information society, that, although we can talk about digitalism and the information society cycle, it is difficult for people to understand that their freedom of choice in watching TV, which is nevertheless part of culture and information, was substantially weakened after May. I would like to see that Parliament, a committee, a section or anything else, is paying attention to this, see if something can be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u45	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to one of the details of this draft law, namely this section of the tied trade. It is well formulated in this proposal, and I am sure it can now be dismantled, but I think it is worth recalling the circumstances in which this switch shop was once put under control. At the time, the connection trade with these phones and telephone subscriptions was quite wild and very vague. I'm sure a lot of people made phone calls at the time. I myself remember that at one time, when the switch shop was still allowed, I think on the best day three different operators made an offer to change the connection. In this case, this distance trading of subscriptions was also put under control. Now that this switch shop regulation is being dismantled, which is certainly a good thing, it would certainly be a good idea for further discussion to find out what possible effects this will have on distance selling and whether there is a risk that, in a way, a similar circus, which was once in place, would once again emerge, because I do not believe that anyone would wish to do so. You will remember when there were stories in the papers about grandmothers and so on, who didn't even really know the rest of the time what they were buying when quick telemarketers hooked them up with all kinds of shops, subscriptions and equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u46	Mr President! I would like to pick up on the previous themes. Indeed, our young people and children are very much there on the Internet, but I do not think that this should exclude the fact that we are trying to set appropriate age limits and we are also trying to take care of certain transmission times. Yes, in recent years, even on television, if the time of the family’s meal between 4 and 5 p.m. has happened to be set open by television, there may have been a lot of things in front of the eyes, so that in that sense I think it is good to keep this in mind and as an effort and, in particular, to think of the future and balanced life of our children and young people, also in terms of human relations. Then, about what I have already mentioned, really about these advertisements and untruths: in fact, I have already contacted a few operators. I don't know if there have been any of these in many years, but I think it's a year and a half-and-a-half,and I've been running around in Finland, I'd say,to all the world fortune tellers. At first, I could not quite understand that in Finland we come from this type of thing, which really is moneyed out, and when, from what kind of wave or card or feeling, callers are told truths or false truths or other things being pushed out of it, we go to very different limits of things, which some may consider to be minor, but there have already been very unpleasant consequences and addictions for many of them. And then, quickly, about this fake media and the truthfulness of the media: There is one thing that is said, another thing about how to tell, and a third thing about what is left out. In the Committee on the Future, we also asked for media researchers to be there, and they said that this fake media has also come to Finland through big channels and we also have this type of stuffing. I wish we had a high-quality media that keeps
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u47	Mr President! This proposal as a whole, i.e. the law on changing the information society cycle, is excellent in many ways. It also represents the consistent line of the Sipilä Government on the dismantling of standards. This can be seen, for example, in the granting of radio licences or in the removal of restrictions on advertising. These are measures that serve not only the target group but also those companies that operate there in practice. For citizens, improving services for the visually and hearing impaired is certainly a good step forward. Why, today, indeed, not all commercial TV channels appear in the way they have been or should be seen in the past is a major challenge for us as a society. At some point, telephone operators felt that everyone was building their own links. At the end of the day, the Parliament did say that the links could be made, but all operators must always go on top of the same hill — for which they are grateful today that they have not gone to that general competition. How to resolve this issue forward is, of course, a place for the Ministry of Transport and Communications and for the authorities in the sector. Will Parliament be able to promote it in any way, the time will tell. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to this point: what is the status of commercial radios today, or, specifically, commercial local radios? Having worked there since the '80s, too, I can say that the drugs and the idea and idea that were based on the local culture of doing and so on have largely disappeared with this chaining. Is there anything we can do about this? It's a difficult thing. I understand commercialism and how society can regulate it, but, of course, it is essential that at least those actors who want to act locally should be given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u48	Mr President! I believe that it has become quite clear that we are all in favour of having good and safe media, but I would like to continue to think that we should be able to operate under the same rules in the same operating environment. This is not working at the moment. There are concerns about whether the service provided by other people in Finland, other than Yleisradio, will remain online or on television. The big question is how they get viewers and how much it costs them to put the programme in, for example, the Watchroom or the Ruutu service, which operate in the same operating environment as, for example, Estonian operators, Swedish operators, other European operators or, for example, an operator in the United States. If we are so far away from others in these, then we must see that, as is happening at present, we do not have a much stricter regulation of our own operators in the same operating environment by means of regulations which entail significantly higher costs. Then it may happen that we will eventually regulate ourselves to death. This is actually the message. I personally support the fact that in traditional television we insist that at a certain time there will be a certain kind of programme, perhaps it will still work there today. But when we move on to the Internet or the fact that there will be more TV shows on home TV in the future when you want them to — that is, even though the receiver is the same as it is at the moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u49	Mr President! In fact, from that speech by Mr Heinonen, I wanted to continue: that is exactly what I wanted to say. Today, the use of the media is no longer a matter of whether Little Two comes at a certain time from that TV. As the mother of a small child, I am really glad that Yle offers a good offering to children, for example. But then, when we have this digital side, those cell phones and pups, and they always go along with them, you can rap them wherever and there you can choose, really fast you learn to choose from them, programs, and there may not be enough time for your parents to do so. I think it is very important that we continue to develop this critical media literacy and increase our skills, not only for children but also for us parents and teachers, that is very important. We have it since 2004, I understand, already taught at school. But even earlier — why could it not also be part of early childhood education, this teaching of media literacy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u50	Mr President! I would also like to continue with the closure of television channels initiated by Mr Estilä. In a certain way now, in a digital age, it's just a decision. In the past, during the analogue channels, it was expensive to set up those lanes there, but now that they have already been arranged in the digital era, they will be closed down just because of such a market economy. I would therefore ask you, now that the Minister is here, to consider, perhaps from the point of view of this equality, how this could now be promoted so that we have in Finland, in today's present, digital age, better than in the past, on an equal footing, the information channels originally placed on the feet of society, television channels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u51	Mr President! Mr Tanus asked me a few questions about my criticism of a detail in the bill, namely that the proposal allows FICORA to refuse software licences for certain reasons, which I have already said about that toilet. I am not entirely alone in this criticism, including the Media Federation, and this proposal would mean a proactive intervention by the Authority in the area of freedom of expression. That is why the Media Union is opposed to the proposal because it interferes disproportionately with the media.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u52	Mr President! I believe that the Minister at least seems to be going to speak on this point, so I decided to repeat in this context the question that came a little while ago about the fate of commercial electronic media support, that is, this amount of money. Yes, I remember that it raised a debate here in the Chamber of Parliament before the summer break. President! I very much hope that the answer to the question that has been raised here by a number of representatives is that the Minister sees it as possible for the committee, for example, to be able to specifically review this service for the visually impaired, the hearing impaired and others and its legal basis. Of course, I understand that, in any case, Parliament has the opportunity to change this in committee, but it is always good to hear the Minister's views on this at some point. President! Since the Minister is here, I think it would be important to hear the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u53	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen, followed by Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u54	Mr President! Real media literacy needs to be learned in early childhood education; school is too late to start learning this. In schools, too, it must be linked to all subjects; it must not be an isolated subject in which it is studied; it must be part of everything. On the other hand, it also applies to us adults, and we would now need a lot of new tools to identify these fake news. That is why I would like to mention that in Finland, in 2014, voluntary activities using this kind of crowding started, the so-called Factbar, where we are looking for these fake news. This fact bar can be used by any citizen. It has been selected as Journalist of the Year in 2014, and since then it has received many awards and awards also in Europe and internationally. So we also need tools like this that we could learn to use and use to better control fake media and fake news.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u55	By way of derogation from what has just been agreed — if the Minister agrees — the representative of the plant still and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u56	Thank you! When much is said about this media education, we must remember that today’s children and young people are no longer passive media consumers but are also active content producers. So media education is not only media literacy anymore, but also media writing skills. That is why I have often said that, for example, a mother tongue curriculum would definitely require rules of journalism, because the author of a blog may find that he is actually legally responsible for what he has gone to write as a minor. So this is all I wanted to raise to this debate, not to get stuck in that old media education mindset, but to remember that we also have to grow active media producers from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u57	And Minister Berner, if necessary, for five minutes. There are a lot of questions and comments here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the information society curve needs to be reformed as the operating environment is reformed. In this first stage there are now so-called fast-changing entities. The work will continue into the so-called second phase, where part will then also come with the changes in the EU, and then, as the representative of the plant pointed out, as the EU's digital single market is progressing, there will be a need for further reform of the information society cycle. In other words, we are faced with a very large, comprehensive reform, the first part of which is now under discussion. In the area of accessibility, too, work continues. As far as accessibility is concerned, the government has taken a decision in principle, which obliges us to take accessibility into account in every way in all legislation, and it is also increasingly being given greater attention. The proposal does not alter the universal service legislation, which as such is in force, and the universal service is the right of the user, which can also be invoked. In this, FICORA is a supervisory authority, and when such presentations come from, among other things, the representative of Savola, FICORA is the supervisory authority that is available here if necessary. Sign language is noted in Yle law. At present, commercial media have no linguistic obligations, no language whatsoever, no sign language, but no other. And here, of course, the question to the committee is whether there is a need to change this comprehensive thinking. At the same time, it is of course important to consider how commercial media can take these obligations into account, and also how much it may affect supply or other solutions. This may be the starting point here. We do indeed have subtitling obligations, and they are to continue to be used and, in fact, extended in this area of the information society, but there is no language obligation at all. This is, of course, a principle which the committee should consider and go through. I am personally very committed to both the Yle-workgroups and also to the implementation of the presentations of the Harkimo Group. Of course, within the framework of the financial framework, I myself will have to act, and then I will return to this point and I am sure we will return to this point in this Chamber when the LVM class is in the debate and the budget is public on 19 September. With regard to false news, there were many points of view here in the debate, and it is a complex entity which should be assessed from several points of view, of course from the point of view of our freedom of expression and our responsibility for speech. The Internal Security Strategy is currently being prepared and will take into account the impact of fake news on society and what it generates. Media literacy has attracted attention at OKM, and a project has been launched for this purpose. We do, of course, have a significant change in this competitive environment all the time, and that is a major challenge when major legislative reforms and developments are being made, how they are able to change and develop continuously in time and also to take account of the building and development of a fair competitive environment. The representative, Mr Wallinheimo, raised the concern that the violation of the marketing rules of the lottery law and the provisions of the Act on broadcasting times is considered too light a reason not to grant a licence for software. This concern has indeed been expressed by the Media Union, but at the same time we have the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Police Government and In their own opinions, FICORA has again come to the conclusion that regulation is needed here. At the moment, FICORA is not in a position to monitor the violation of the lottery law on current grounds either. But there is still a lot of work to be done on the information society cycle from now on. I would like to thank you for the lunches and perspectives I have received so far from you, which I will also take into account in the forthcoming preparations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u59	Mr President! I am now taking this opportunity to know that Minister Berner will not leave the Chamber immediately, and I would like to return to this local radio issue. Local radios back in the early '80s were very local. They may be radios belonging to a small town that collected the advertising market and thus also the funds for operating expenditure in the surrounding area. I am actually asking the Minister about it, a very short question: we have facilitated licensing practices in the area of licensing, such as taxi transport and in many other areas. How about, for example, in these local radio jobs, has there been such a plan that this licensing system could be removed so that commercial conditions are improved and that its decision-making is transferred from the authorities more to the actors there? If you wanted to set up a local radio, the project could simply collapse, as it does today, by not obtaining a license.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u60	Mr President! I understand that on 19 September we will return to this issue of electronic commercial media support, but I would nevertheless like to emphasise its importance in this context. I certainly hope that, although the budget may not be public in this respect, you might be able to give a signal that the situation has improved since last spring, because then, at least, we were concerned about why we should not commit ourselves to the level of support that this representative, Mr Harkimo, had in mind for a sufficient level of support. I will take the floor again because there is not only a minister here but also representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u61	Mr President! Local activities and local media: I remember when, in the Committee on Education, we also went through the time when they came with a large supply. Fortunately, these new distribution channels have also provided a pretty good response to this, which means that today many local newspapers or local websites are beginning to have a little similar activity. In fact, there are conversational programs that are only in the voice, such as the radio, where there are conversations and reports, where there is a TV picture, in exactly the same way as on television, and here the local newspapers do good work. It has been nice to note that many of these small players are actually doing quite well in the media field at the moment, when they talk about media media like the local newspaper of my own municipality, a few thousand people. They have their own kind of space found in this global media field, and it is a good place. But it actually comes to the point that it is probably not too far from the situation when it comes to considering whether there is any further need for such permits, for example, to run the radio, because it is already possible to do so...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u66	And again, Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u67	Mr President! Briefly, with regard to radio licences, we have a round with the industry to consider how to deal with radio licences for the next licence period. We have now drawn up a memorandum of estimates for them and there are between 4 and 5 different scenarios, and now, in cooperation with the industry, we are asking for an assessment of how the entire radio sector will continue in the future. The objective is to reach agreement by the end of this year on how to deal with radios in the future. There is still a huge amount of work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u68	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u69	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on strong electronic identification and the amendment and temporary amendment of the Act on electronic trust services is under discussion. It is proposed that a maximum price should be set for the chaining of so-called initial identification data for a period of five years. First recognition means a reliable identification of an identity when a new customer is first granted a strong electronic identification tool, such as online banking credentials or a mobile certificate. The transmission of initial identification data, i.e. chaining, is needed when an existing strong electronic identification tool is being used to retrieve a new strong identification tool electronically. Last year, in connection with the previous amendment to the identification law, Parliament adopted a statement requiring the Government to monitor the functioning and affordability of electronic first recognition, in particular in order to ensure the launch of the market for identification services. The statement also required the Government to take the necessary measures to launch the market for identification services, if necessary, before the establishment of a trust network under the identification law. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has followed developments in the market for electronic first-identification and has noted that the expansion of the supply of new strong electronic identification tools is currently hampered by high prices for the transmission of first-identification data. Prices have been up to tens of euros per identification event. According to our information, new identification tools are not offered and marketed to users widely due to high prices. The present proposal proposes a maximum price of at least EUR 0,35 and a maximum of EUR 5 for the transmission of initial identification data for a period of five years. This range is considered reasonable at the maximum level, based on the information obtained from the providers of the identification tool operating in Finland during the preparation of the proposal on the prices for the transmission of initial identification data. Moreover, the maximum level of compensation should be reduced by 25% per year. Within these limits, FICORA would determine the maximum price on the basis of realised market prices. The model presented for providers of identification tools would provide predictability for regulation while ensuring price moderation in relation to market prices and moderate price developments towards an efficient price level. The main aim of the proposal is to promote the creation of a growth environment for digital business and the development of an eID market. The widespread deployment of digital services and the development of new business models require that users and providers of electronic services can rely on each other and ensure each other’s identity. The faster development of the identification market is necessary to promote digital services and business. Finally, I would like to point out that, as a second point in this same proposal, it is proposed that the reporting obligations and the fees payable by the authorities under the identification law be clarified in the case of associations of operators. This is a clarifying change to prevent unintended multiple supervisory fee obligations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u70	Mr President! Electronic identification is important, and it is regrettable that we are far behind many other countries in this regard. In the past, I myself have supported electronic voting, but I am no longer in favour of it today — I will not go into those details. But now I would like to thank Minister Berner and the Government for taking steps forward on this issue of electronic identification so that we can make this work even better. In Parliament, for example, various documents, such as initiatives, can now be signed electronically. That's one step. And if this house is only now able to do so, there are still many more steps to be taken. I also welcome the fact that during this government the right to online banking credentials has been acquired for people with a default. There was a major flaw that had not been corrected before, but it was corrected by this present government. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, chaired by Mr Turunen, has just come to an end, and so has the right to online banking credentials for people with default, and that is one part of this identification. It is the implementation of the payment account directive and it is good that it has finally been implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u71	Mr President! I'm glad you brought up these defaulters. Although it is now possible for them to receive a card, it is now that banks are not obliged to issue this card so that they can identify themselves and that is still a problem. We gave permission, but we cannot oblige all banks to give these symbols — this is unfortunately a fact today. This is the issue that should be addressed. Here I recently calculated that if it costs $5, it will be about 2 million — we have nearly 400,000 people who are in default — so that something should be done so that we can guarantee these defaulters, since it is now time to give them domain names, that they will also receive them. And maybe we could use some government help with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u72	To the list of speakers. Representative Wallinheimo — representative Wallinheimo is absent. Representative Päivi Räsänen — is gone. Mr Tolppanen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u73	Mr President! I'll continue on the same subject. In the first half of this year, between January and June, there were 100,000 more people in Finland who were insolvent than last year, 12 per cent more than before — this is what has been calculated. Electronic identification is definitely a good thing, and that is a sure thing, but the only concern is whether all citizens can use it. The Minister's recent speech clearly revealed why credit institutions do not want to provide these identification tools: it costs them money, it costs them money. This is certainly a very good thing that now there will be some kind of roof on it. I hope that EUR 5 is not going to go, because it is the EUR 2 million anyway, and then when we play on the money market, then EUR 2 million is big money, and it is always big money. But what would be the way for every citizen to have an electronic means of identification? There's got to be a way. I do not invent it, because Parliament does not have the power to impose on commercial institutions what they have to do, what they have to buy or give. We need to get that public debate so strong that we have to give these symbols to people in a way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u74	Mr President! That is where I thanked Mr Turus and the Committee on Economic Affairs a moment ago for the fact that these online banking credentials have now been made the right of everyone. Now that it is claimed from the left side of the Chamber that they are not everyone's right, could you, Mr Turunen, the Chairman of the Economic Committee, now confirm and correct that false information, namely that the basic banking services are now obliged to provide online banking credentials? If this is not the case, as Mr Tolppanen claims, then I understand that this bank is in breach of the law. And the chairman of the committee, Mr Turunen, can probably also tell us what can be done if the bank does not comply with this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u75	Mr President! Mr Heinonen is quite right about that. This is not a national case either, but it does come from the EU through the directive that basic banking services are for all citizens. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this matter was then dealt with in national legislation, and these basic banking services and BICs are available to all citizens — or should be. [MariaBeeping]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u77	Mr President! Greetings from Edinburgh! You're gonna have to pay cash in that pub. They are not happy to take the card because it slows down the service there, so that I would say that we in Finland are quite advanced in this digitalisation — perhaps not as far as Björn Ulvaeus in Stockholm is suggesting that we should give up the normal money altogether. But with regard to this change in the law itself, these high prices for the transmission of initial identification data have made it difficult to use existing identification tools and to acquire new ones and high prices make it difficult for competition to function and, in the future, to develop a network of trust between operators. This law is very well-founded and in that sense we are on the right track, and the government has done a good job here. As far as the issue of defaulters is concerned, it is quite right that this issue should be raised here. I know many entrepreneurs, I have tried myself, there have been tax breaks and so on, and if that were to happen, that would be the end of the whole business. In this respect, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a good job. If that is the case, as Mr Tolppanen said, that not all banks will comply with this, then we must then be able to sanction the banks. It is a civil right that you can actually also operate in these banks, even though some banks claim that we ordinary customers only bring sand to the floors. But in any case, something must be done about this, this must be followed. That is not necessarily a matter of course. But in any case, many very honest entrepreneurs may at some point be in such a situation that there are, for example, payment difficulties and cash difficulties, a liquidity problem. However, when the circulation of customers, the circulation of money, slows down, this banking activity must work. All in all, this change in the law on electronic identification is an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u78	Mr President! Indeed, in my view, that electronic identification is quite in front of Europe in Finland. That is where I would take the catch from Alatalo and say that when I go there a lot with the alpine sports gangs, there is no debit card at all today, there is even a discount on cash payments. But it is indeed good for us in Finland that Parliament is now finally going to further develop this electronic identification, as that right of debit cards is clearly unclear now that it is a sanction or not. As a representative of the business community, I believe that the market will also be resolved in the future. I therefore believe that free competition will also be the key. I myself have worked a lot on that court side and do what is called the work of a field lawyer. I must say that that electronic identification is there today, especially in our legal and legal offices, it is a continuous activity. But, of course, it is good that citizens' access to them through their own banking services is developing. Of course, if you think that this registration fee and the supervisory fee will come into use, they are a good way to do so, and they will also, in a way, guide you to the fact that those real new operators are seriously entering the market. Such a system of price caps is a good system, and I think that it will work on time. It will be possible to resolve and then determine whether it has been reasonable and then, with the number of service providers, the market will move forward. In my opinion, this is a good draft law and, as it is, very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u79	Mr President! This has raised the issue of these defaults and their situation, and I think it is quite important that this has been done. According to the news of the past few days, around 10 per cent of the citizens in Finland are affected. In practice, it means half a million people, and it is very significant. Indeed, we have had such a situation a short time ago, as Mrs Alatalo mentioned here, that it has been a problem, especially for entrepreneurs, if there are signs of a default, and for the ordinary citizen, it has in practice meant that you cannot open a bank account. Then we have a law in force that wages should be paid into a bank account, that cash should not pay wages. Now such a person with a default is in a difficult situation if the bank refuses to open a bank account and on the other hand has managed to get a job and the wage-payer should pay the bank an account. Of course, these defaults — not only have you not even been able to open an account in a bank, not to mention a bank card or online banking credentials — mean, in practice, that you are not getting a telephone subscription, not a rental dwelling, nothing. Of course, quite a lot of these problems have remained and remain in place, but, in the case of banking services, these basic banking services have now been secured for all citizens. For those who have received the default marking, these are also available. This is not a very new law, now I do not remember exactly whether this matter was dealt with last autumn or now in the spring of this year, but this is a relatively recent law. As for whether the banks will then comply with this legislation in this regard, i.e. with regard to basic banking activities, at least in my opinion the banks will follow the law quite strictly in the country of Finland, so that hardly this kind of problem is, because at least not in my ears such has come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u80	The 28th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u81	Mr President! This comprehensive EU-Canada partnership agreement contains a lot of good things, but also problems. The problem is its link to the EU-Canada CETA Trade Agreement. CETA has not yet been discussed or approved; CETA will come to Parliament later. This strategy is linked to CETA and refers to CETA as an approved issue, although it is not yet. It is therefore problematic to deal with these issues separately and to accept this document with its CETA references before the CETA agreement has even been given to Parliament. Article 10 of this Treaty — Page 20 of the Government’s proposal — paragraph 1 states: "Parties shall cooperate to promote the sustainable growth and development of their So here is a direct reference to the CETA agreement and its binding nature, although the CETA agreement itself has not yet been given to Parliament. The CETA agreement and its investment protection must be so important that it must be dealt with by the national parliaments and cannot be accepted by the EU alone, so it will come to Parliament later. CETA will probably also require a constitutional review. CETA is not a problem at all. For example, the Committee on Social, Health and Sustainable Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has expressed its concern about this: "CETA will give new powers to supranational investors to challenge EU Member States for the laws that affect their companies' profits, which have been imposed to protect citizens' health, the environment or workers' rights. CETA provisions would restrict the legislative powers of parliaments in an unacceptable way." This is the text of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Committee. It is therefore problematic if, with this agreement before us, Finland commits itself to act in accordance with CETA, even though CETA has not yet been dealt with in Parliament. I would therefore like to see the consideration of whether these issues can be dealt with separately or at the same time, or if this strategic partnership agreement is treated as a separate matter from CETA, then the reflection should be extended to the acceptability of the CETA as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u82	Madam President! This so-called SPA agreement is a horizontal cooperation agreement which includes definitions of forms of cooperation and dialogue. The agreement deals with a number of sectors at a relatively general level. The agreement therefore reflects the common values of the European Union and Canada and provides for cooperation in areas such as international peace and security, the promotion of human rights, sustainable development, judicial cooperation and political dialogue. It also contains essential obligations for the European Union's foreign policy, including general commitments on human rights, democratic principles in Europe and respect for the rule of law, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism. These are all topical and important issues which we should promote with other countries. But, as Mr Sarkkinen pointed out in his speech, along with these desirable objectives, there is also much talk of a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, CETA. There's a lot of suspicion about that. In the European Parliament, for example, the Greens have supported this SPA agreement but have been very critical of the CETA assessments. On the other hand, we must remember what has been said in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that is, when free trade agreements are discussed, they should be dealt with in a broad manner so that human rights, for example, are not jeopardised, not to mention the environment. This SPA agreement is therefore not a CETA agreement, but it is closely linked. As CETA is coming to this Parliament in the autumn season, I believe that it would be quite justified to deal with these issues together. This cooperation agreement and CETA should be dealt with as simultaneously as possible and as broadly as possible. I would also like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give a thorough opinion on this. This would make it possible for us not to accidentally lock our positions on matters relating to CETA and which certainly require great political consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u83	The 30th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u84	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the provision on the property tax rate applicable to the power plant of the Real Estate Tax Act and the buildings and structures belonging to the nuclear fuel disposal plant. A small hydro and wind power plant with a rated power of not more than 10 megavolts shall be subject to a general property tax rate. The provision on small power plants would be amended to calculate the power limit of 10 megavolts on the basis of the combined rated power output of power plants connected to the electricity grid through a common — i.e. a common — connection point. This rule would apply to all power plants regardless of their type of electricity generation. The issue has started from the 2016 budget debate, and wind power property taxation has received criticism that it is lighter than other energy. The general property tax rate currently stands between 0.93 and 1.8%, and there has been a situation in practice that wind power and all wind power in Finland have been included in this general property tax rate. This bill is therefore about a method of calculation that is made to reflect reality. In the future, wind turbines in wind farms will be added together if they have one connection. With this in mind, the parks of more than 10 megavolt amperes would in future be subject to an increased property tax of 3.1% if the municipality decided to do so. This puts different forms of energy on an equal footing from the point of view of real estate tax. If, for example, there has previously been one wind power plant in the park with 3 megavolt amperes, it has been subject to this general property tax rate, which is up to 1.8%, and in the wind farm the tax has been calculated separately for all power plants, so the whole park has been subject to low taxation, i.e. lower taxation than this power plant property tax. Thus, according to the bill, this 10 megavolt ampere is calculated according to the common point of accession, i.e. in a park like this, when the total number of these wind turbines exceeds this 10 megavolt amperes, these are added together when they have a common connection, and then these are covered by this higher property tax. Currently, there are some 450 wind turbines in the Tax Administration register located in 43 different municipalities. The combined tax value of wind power plants in 2017 is EUR 320 million and the imputed real estate tax EUR 3.6 million. In practice, this change in the law means that the tax revenue of municipalities in this respect will increase significantly. As I said, this bill has started in 2016 from a row, but I would like to say that this support for wind power in general is very over-exploited because of previous decisions. The starting point of the 2015 Government negotiations was the desire to cut this wind power support. It was noted quite quickly that, due to constitutional problems, wind power aid could not be intervened because these were 12 years' contracts, but in practice a decision was taken to close this current aid scheme as quickly as possible. This will end now: on 1 November 2017, no more power plants will be included. But in practice, this means that EUR 250 million will be paid for wind power in the next year's budget, for example. It is a shockingly large sum for one form of energy production, albeit renewable. The situation will not improve over the next few years, but will in fact deteriorate significantly. At its highest, we will have support for wind power from 2023 to 2024, then we will be talking about some EUR 350 million. After that, it will then go down because no new ones have been included and, as I recall, this current feed-in tariff system and its support will end completely in 2029. What is this change in property tax about? When it was stated in the Government negotiations in 2015 that we could not only cut this support from the agreements concluded with these companies, but because of the protection of the assets of the Constitution, they would have to be adhered to, the other possible forms of support for this wind power and then it was discovered that this is basically a lower property tax for wind power companies. That is why there was a desire to address this and to put it on an equal footing with other energy production models and their property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u85	Madam President! In August 2015, I asked a written question on this issue about the mishap that, from the point of view of municipalities, has been linked to the taxation of wind power. It is therefore a great thing that this matter has progressed at this stage and that the government has put forward a proposal for it. However, wind power is renewable, emission-free, domestic energy and municipalities have been encouraged to build wind power for years. However, perhaps depending on the views of the viewer, wind power always has some kind of landscape and noise damage and remains there locally, so I think it is quite reasonable for municipalities that invest in wind power to receive compensation from wind power in the form of a property tax and now a little higher compensation when a wind farm enters the scope of power plant taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u88	Madam President! I was thinking about this performance. I think there is a good thing about this that municipalities have the opportunity to become more tax revenues, but then, on the other hand, company practice has always been a bit of a downside, such tax increases want to move on to the bill. This summer, I had to find out what the old man’s electricity bill contained. Its invoice amounted to EUR 75. Of this, approximately EUR 7 was electricity consumption. All the others are taxes, transfer rates and taxes, which are included in the invoice. In view of that, I remained to reflect on this situation as to what is going on here. When this raises these costs for this company, which makes such good profits because of these tax reliefs, I very much hope that, when we consider this matter in committee, we will find a way that at least these will not increase the consumer price. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u89	Mr President! The Government is therefore proposing an amendment to the Real Estate Tax Act whereby wind farms — windmills connected to the grid through a single access point with a combined power of more than 10 megavolts — would be subject to a property tax on power plants. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] In recent years there have been criticisms of the property tax treatment of wind power plants from a number of different angles. The increase in the amount of property tax generated by municipal wind power plants has also been considered justified from the point of view of encouraging municipalities to plan areas for wind power construction and thus contribute to the further construction of wind power. On the other hand, increasing the cost of wind power reduces the profitability of wind power and may slow down the construction of new production capacity through it. For power plants within the feed tariff, a tax increase would probably not be bad. However, profits and corporate tax payable would be slightly reduced. This proposal is also justified on the basis of equal treatment between different forms of energy production. That is a beautiful idea, but this proposal would not solve the issue directly, namely, for example, fossil energy is supported in Finland with a great deal of generosity, but often indirectly. If this objective were to be supported, then indirect subsidies for polluting energy sources should be reviewed. So putting different forms of energy on the same line requires much more extensive action, and I would not start directly with wind power but with fossils. If renewables were to be brought to the same level as these, the situation would be very different in the market. It is also likely that, if, and in the future, the renewable energy tender model were to be replaced, the increased property tax would be potentially inflated to the bidding prices, so that what the municipality wins could be paid by the State. At the same time, the competitiveness of wind power compared to, for example, the bioelectricity produced in CHP plants would be weakened. The Government's proposal has been critically voiced by, among other things, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the EK, the Energy Industry and the Wind Power Association. Supporters of this proposal include MTK, wind power stations, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the Confederation of Taxpayers. In addition to the above, the arguments of the opponents mention that the increased tax would slow down the increase in market wind power and thereby jeopardise climate objectives, including our renewable energy targets by 2030. In addition, the tax raised could encourage the construction of inappropriate small wind farms to remain below the tax threshold of 10 MVA.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u90	Madam President! In the tax section, the discussion of this proposal began today by the first hearing. There was indeed an expert in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, also an expert in the Ministry of Local and Regional Authorities, and I came to the conclusion that the Ministry does not object to the government's proposal. I can make some critical observations at some point. The municipal association, inter alia, and the local municipalities are in favour of amending this property tax law so that the property tax rate of a hydroelectric power plant is applied to a power plant that is connected to the electricity grid through a common access point — talk about a wire model — and the nominal power of this entity exceeds 10 megavolt amperes. It can be said that this change will make the tax treatment of the various forms of electricity generation more neutral in the area of property taxation and, as has been said here, the location of the power plants will receive a fairer compensation from the adverse effects of the power plant. In practice, the change would therefore mainly concern wind farms, which would in future be considered as a single power plant. And this real estate tax change really encourages municipalities to promote the acceptability of wind power locally and enables stable real estate tax revenues for the location. It should also be noted that the amount of taxes introduced into the wind farm area is low compared to other power plants, property taxation excluding construction machinery and equipment which account for a significant part of the cost of building wind power. Here, this definition through the point of accession is perhaps the only one possible. In that sense, Mr President, this is working legally, and indeed the Central Union of Taxpayers, farmers and others have supported the proposal, although it has received critical comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u91	Madam Speaker! I believe that this government proposal before us is one that is very much in tune with and fits the sense of justice of ordinary people and Finns. After all, if you read the government's proposal, the very technical draft law is essentially about the fact that those municipalities with energy production, this time wind energy, wind power, these producer communities, where the various effects are reflected, will have a slightly higher income. This is something that is expected both from the municipalities and then from the municipalities themselves. Mr President! I have always welcomed and continue to welcome wind power. However, no form of energy production is entirely unproblematic. This is never the case, there are always different effects on the environment and also on the human community. This is also the case with wind power, with certain landscape and sound effects. In recent years, more has been said about the disadvantages of wind power and the threats of wind power to people and also to domestic and productive animals. That is why I think it is very important that the regions where this burden and these effects of wind energy come will then also benefit from economic benefits and economic compensation directly in these municipalities and in these regions. Mr President! However, energy must be produced, and I am sure that we all hope here in Parliament that renewable energy production will increase. The situation is that electricity comes not only from plugs but also from somewhere. I would also like to join Mr Kulmun and Mr Ala-Nissilä in his very good remarks, and I hope that this proposal will also be dealt with with with the work and dignity it deserves in the committee and in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u92	Mr President! Indeed, according to a recent study by the Lappeenranta University of Technology, wind power is the most affordable form of energy production without subsidies in the case of new investments. The cost of wind power is EUR 41.40 per megawatt hour. The next most profitable is the new nuclear power with a production cost of EUR 42.40 to EUR 55.40 per megawatt hour. Although wind power is the cheapest new form of production, new investments will not be created without support due to low electricity prices and an unforeseeable political environment. The old wind-power subsidy that is now being closed has been over- generous, so it is justified to end it. However, new, better and more reasonable support is needed in order to generate investment at all. And new investments in zero-emission energy will have to come if we want to achieve the emission reduction targets and the objectives of the Paris climate agreement and stop climate change. In particular, new support is needed because emissions trading currently does not work and does not adequately guide investment in emission-free sources and fossil fuels are also heavily supported in Finland and elsewhere in Europe. Mr President! This proposal has now been calculated on the basis of the aid to be closed. However, it must be ensured that in the future the construction of new wind turbines, which are being built outside existing overcompensating aid, will not become a tax burden or become unprofitable because of the need for investment. On the other hand, this proposal can increase wind power production if it increases the local acceptability of wind power and thereby increases wind power investments. I hope that the committee will consider both these aspects, both possible reductions in investment as a result of taxes and possible increases in investment as a result of taxes, from the point of view of the need for new emission-free investments in Finland and, on the other hand, from the point of view that municipalities are prepared to take them into their regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u93	Madam President! This government proposal deserves praise. I think it is a very good thing that this property tax on wind power plants should be extended in this way — not just because it brings benefits to the municipalities and regions where it causes certain disadvantages, landscapes and so on. It is therefore important that this be created, but also because the willingness to build wind power plants and the willingness to plan wind power parks are increased throughout Finland and in Finnish municipalities. Now, in countries such as Denmark, which has significantly more wind power capacity than in Finland, this production of wind power was started to be expanded by public intervention. There communities, municipalities, even village communities, were better involved in the construction of these power plants and also in sharing the economic benefits of this energy production. In my opinion, it is important that the obstacles, the obstacles to attitudes and other obstacles in municipalities to the construction of these wind power areas and the planning of suitable areas should be removed in this way. But let me also say that it is quite right that the regions where energy is produced in certain forms and which cause certain disadvantages are also left with some of the economic benefits and good that this energy production as a business produces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u94	Mr President, those who are still in the Chamber! The True Finns feel that the fact that these production facilities are subject to the same property tax is a good thing. In that debate, Mr Kurvinen, who unfortunately has just left, pointed out that this is going to be useful and compensation for municipalities, which is true, but this debate forgets what some have said: the environment and the infrasound effects for people. Of course, the fact that municipalities receive compensation for wind power does not compensate for the problems that some people have experienced as a result of health effects. I myself want to increase renewable energies, but in all the new ones, we must always remember that we can have health problems. However, we also have the right under the Constitution to a healthy environment. The Finns of Peru took this matter seriously, and last autumn I personally met citizens who had a lot of dealings with wind power, including Merikarvia, and when I got into that situation, I first thought, "What is this all about?" I listened to family stories about children getting sick, strange symptoms and having to move out of their home. A family from Merikarvia is currently in a situation where they have a new house empty, and if they return there with their children, near this wind farm, the whole family will be symptomatic. Of course, it has also been said that it is probably a question of these people imagining different diseases. I think it's kind of rude and actually rude to go that way. For example, the child of their family, who was a baby at the time, was symptomatic, and I could argue that babies must be terribly difficult to pretend to be symptoms at the parents ’ orders. I would also like to raise a debate in this Chamber and in public about the fact that, at the request of the Finns, the Ministry of Education commissioned studies on these infrasounds and there was a situation where it was found that there was no scientific evidence of direct health damage so far, but that further research on the long-term health effects was justified and, according to my information, there should be some further study. Since there are not many government representatives here, I would ask you, Mr Turunen, if you were able to answer: do you have any information on whether the government is taking this report forward? This is a real concern, and we Finns have taken this seriously. We were at a summer meeting in Hyvinkää, my home town, and there we had a lot of discussion about this, and at the party meeting we had people from the Wind Power Civic Society who thanked the Finns for taking them seriously. I therefore hope that other parties will take this issue seriously. This also came out partly because animals had been studied in other parts of the world, including bats, and that is why, of course, this bat case was brought up and forgotten about them sick and suffering people.I hope that the parliamentary groups will take an interest in this matter. But for this government proposal itself. It is good in itself that municipalities also receive compensation, but it does not help the situation of these individual people, because there are many wind farms and hundreds of thousands of people in their sphere of influence. It is the same as with any exposure, that not everyone is symptomatic or exposed, but with those who are exposed, life is a total disaster, because the property may be there in the house, are rented and have permanent health problems, or it is the case that they will be eliminated if you leave that area of influence. But everyone understands that if that house is there, it will not, for example, be redeemed by the wind power company — what will you do? — yes, it is a terrible situation. I urge you all to meet these people, that is a serious problem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u95	There are so few of these speeches on the list that we are now having a debate through them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u96	Mr President! I came to this toilet anyway. It may not be enough for two minutes, but I may not be able to speak for five. Many times the word 'compensation' has been used here, but it must now be borne in mind that this government proposal is not about any compensation, that is, that municipalities should receive some compensation for the construction of wind power in the municipality's territory, not. It was not a question of compensation; it was a matter of property tax — a matter of everyday life, a property tax. In this government proposal, wind power construction now comes under normal power plant property tax, which is higher than this general property tax in municipalities. Municipalities themselves decide on their property tax rate, the maximum general property tax is 1.8 per cent, and for power plants the property tax is 3.1 at its maximum. And this also does not mean that all windmills would come under this higher or power plant property tax, but only if such types of connected wind turbines, with one supply pipe to the kingdom network, exceed its 10 megavolt amperes. In practice, now that windmills have been within this general, lower, per cent, these parks, which cross this limit, 10 megavolt amperes, and which have that one feeder cable into the national network, are covered by this higher property tax. You can't talk about any kind of compensation. Compensation is always compensation for some harm, and this is not compensation. This is, once again, simply a question of the fact that the energy produced by wind power and the property associated with it are subject to a property tax on the power plant, where all the energy produced by other means and the properties associated with it have been in the past. So it is not a question of a penalty tax either, but in my opinion, one form of support will be removed from wind power and brought to a level playing field with other forms of production. Mr Parviainen then said in his own speech that this government proposal could lead to the construction of smaller parks, where this 10 megavolt amperes will not be exceeded. In my opinion, it is a very good thing if this leads to it, because such massive, large wind farms are much more significant in ruining the landscape, comes with those noise nuisances and this way away. In other words, if we stay below that limit, it basically means that there are 3 to 5 mills, and once they are concentrated in a park, I think that can also be a handicap to the landscape. On the other hand, Mrs Parviainen said in her own speech that what if, in the future, the forms of support for renewable energy come through a tendering procedure, then, in a way, this additional burden on wind power, which now comes from the previous one, will be passed on to the price of the invitation to tender. I also think that is a good thing, and it is certainly not a bad thing in the sense that, in the tender procedure, the various forms of renewable energy production are on the same line, it is more equal to be involved in the tender when there are no hidden subsidies there. So these aren't bad stuff at all. These are good things. Mr Semi then said on this point that how could these expenses then possibly, that what if they were passed on to consumer prices? But there is no such danger. However, here is an energy producer who sells a nation to the grid, it goes at prices imposed by the electricity markets, and they naturally vary. This has no bearing on the fact that they go directly to consumer prices. And then Mr Meri asked about this report. I have no answer to it at the moment, I can say nothing but whether there is any further explanation of this, the more detailed explanation: if the government has promised this, then it will be done. But personally, I personally believe that I am in favour of producing renewable energy in different forms, including wind power, solar energy, but I do not like the massive support for a particular form of energy with the tax resources of society. On the other hand, on the other hand, I do not dispute in any way the problems relating to wind power, and I think it is important to clarify them, particularly those relating to voice. We have examples, now from the news of recent days about Cuba, for example, where such a voice has apparently been subjected to experiments or such things that have made people sick and that there is no evidence or anything else, but it is assumed that in some such low-frequency voice these have been made — a new form of warfare. I therefore find it absolutely unrealistic that some wind power production, these wings, could not cause some kind of ultrasound that we are not able to directly verify or prove that it does not exist, and I do not detract in any way from the symptoms of these people. And I think it is important, even if it cannot now be proved that further clarification will be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u97	Madam President! However, from all energy and electricity generation to the local level there will always be some disadvantage, be it landscape or whatever. We have a long history of hydropower and how important it is that hydropower becomes a property tax, a power plant tax on those municipalities for which it has caused quite massive changes in neighbouring waters, fish stocks and migratory fish, for example. I think it is only fair that wind power also becomes a tax: it will be a landscape handicap, a noise disadvantage, whatever, but also local people must have the 'compensation benefit' — I continue to use this word — of what remains there locally, even though it is not a compensation system, but a normal property tax policy. Many wind power companies have also responded positively to this change in property tax when I have spoken to them, because they also see the importance of such a change in taxation at local level in terms of the overall acceptability of wind power. I would also like to point out that the Energy Agency, for example, sees that there are only limited costs for electricity producers, so they are in favour of this tax change. The only one who resists this is the big business. I should like to point out to my colleagues in the Greens that, at least at the mouth of the party chairman last summer and in the autumn, you were in favour of the fact that wind power should remain a higher proportion of real estate tax there locally. I hope that perhaps even after the committee reading, the party's line will continue to be similar to that of the previous President on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u98	Mr President! There is therefore a government proposal to place small hydro and wind power plants within the scope of the real estate tax provision for small power plants if, through their common connection point, the total rated power of power plants connected to the electricity grid were more than 10 megavolt amperes. In practice, therefore, this bill would make wind farms subject to a property tax on power plants. Their maximum property tax rate would be 3.1 and is significantly higher than the overall property tax rate. It would generate additional revenue for municipalities and would be a fair solution between the various forms of production of electrical energy, and this would eliminate one tax subsidy. Mr President! The current wind feed-in tariff is EUR 83.50 per megawatt hour, which is very generous compared to the market price of electricity. A study carried out by the Lappeenranta University of Technology, to which reference has also been made, showed that the cost of producing electricity produced by wind power has decreased quite significantly, to just over 40 euros per megawatt hour. On the basis of this result, too, it would be very good to get rid of the feed-in tariff already paid to taxpayers for hundreds of millions of euros and to allow wind power to compete on a market-based basis with other forms of energy production. Mr President! A further independent and objective study of the adverse effects on the health of wind power, presented by the representative of the Sea and requested by the Finns-based, would also be particularly necessary. Many people in the vicinity of wind power production sites have reported serious health problems, and they can rightly be suspected of being caused by the infrasound of wind power plants. Their concerns must also be taken seriously within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u99	Mr President! Of course, here we are discussing the amendment to the real estate tax Act on wind turbines, which I think is very important, as a representative of Northern Ostrobothnia and of the very rich municipality of wind power building. When Mr Meri raised the subjective experience of wind power building and the use of their power stations in the area of wind power stations and asked the groups to take this issue seriously, I would like to comment on the fact that I take this issue seriously and we take it properly in the Green Parliamentary Group, in the sense that we want to base the decision-making process on scientific and research data, which is a general principle and which is also relevant to this issue, and we do not mean that people's own experiences are being invalidated. But we also do not want to ignore the fact that, according to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, we do not currently have scientific evidence of such health damage, and so let us continue monitoring, more detailed studies. I would not say that the studies already carried out are not carried out by an independent and reliable scientific body. But before drawing conclusions here or elsewhere on the subject, let us wait for research and scientific information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u100	Madam President! The Greens are quite open about this, and we will indeed take the final decision as a group at the time when the committee has been held under the direction of experts. Indeed, for wind power stations, for example, this reform is very important, which should not be denied, and we all certainly agree that we want to see as agilely as possible renewable energies built in Finland in such a way that they are also in the interests of the municipalities in which they are being built — or at least I believe that this is the view of the majority of Parliament. Mr Turunen commented — even though he has already left, I am still responding — on my comment on smaller wind farms that this will now lead to smaller units being built. It can also be a positive side in a certain way, it can make it possible for municipalities to allow wind power to be built more agilely. But then, on the other hand, it also means that wind power exists in more than one place and then has its own questions. As long as this does not lead to unhealthy partial optimization — that is what I am here to guarantee. Even when we talk about indirect tax subsidies and direct tax subsidies and their dismantling and the fact that we are bringing different forms of energy into line with each other, I therefore stress this and I wanted to emphasise in my speech that, if such an examination is to be carried out, it must also apply to fossil energy and its indirect subsidies. It is quite clear that the energy market works better when everyone is on the same track, and I believe that sustainable development will also benefit if we get different forms of energy on the same line. However, if the starting point is that wind power subsidies are first tampered with and then no promise is made about what to do with fossils, there may be an imbalance at this point that does not lead to equality. In other words, I hope that representatives of the government parties who are in favour of renewable energy will take this issue up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u101	Mr President! Indeed, scientific research must and must be based on things, but we clearly do not have a long-term health impact on the infrasound. Perhaps I would also urge different parties to get to know and interview these people. As I tried to tell you in that example, it is not necessarily a subjective experience that a baby who has just learned to walk walks like this. [ The speaker holds his ears]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u102	The 31st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-06-ps-82.u103	Madam President! This is a matter of repealing a very small and certainly insignificant piece of legislation, but this is a good example. Every once in a while, when we move there in our homes, in our regions and in the streets of our cities, there is a message that you have done nothing about it now and that we still have a wide range of regulations and standards and obstacles. In my opinion, the fact that this small piece of legislation, which apparently has not been used in my life in the last 31 years, is now being removed, could you say, is a sign that the government of Juha Sipilä really wants to reduce unnecessary regulation so that we only have the rules of the game that we need to run this life together? Certainly, when I am myself in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, we will quickly draw up a report on this and once again a little bit of the Finnish Law doctrine will be cut off in this regard.
