ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u2	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on the Orthodox Church. It is proposed that the voting age be reduced from 18 to 16 years in the elections of the parish council and the vicar. This performance is similar, which is already in force in the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, where a similar change has been made to the voting age of the parish elections in 2009. Mr President! I think this proposal is very good in the sense that we are paying even more attention to young people, who will then also be preparing for different elections and voting later. The more I have worked with those young people, the more I have found that young people are particularly interested in church work and church work, and especially since the age of confession, these various big and other activities are a pleasure. I think it is very good that they will also be able to give their opinions and express their ideas, and that they will also be able to select people who are also promoting young people's affairs, and also young generations will then be brought up in various congregational elections and also as delegates. This is a very important issue, and it is good that young people are represented here in Parliament. Good show.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u3	Mr President! Let's just go over this again. This proposal proposes to amend the law on the Orthodox Church. It is proposed to reduce the voting age in the elections of the parish council and the vicar from 18 to 16 years. The Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland has made a similar change to the voting age of parish elections already in 2009. The aim of the presentation is to ensure that young people are better able to influence the functioning and administration of the congregations in a way that better reflects the objectives and needs of younger age groups. I hope this will also happen. A similar change has not significantly increased the number of voters in the Evangelical Lutheran Church, but has been the right trend to take the younger age group into account and engage in congregation duties. The other objectives of the proposal are to improve the monitoring of the administration and economy of the Orthodox Church and to remove obstacles to the composition of the church board when deciding on the remuneration of employer representatives. The amendments proposed in the proposal introduce administrative and structural reforms relating to the central administration of the Orthodox Church and the organisation of the service centre relating to the reform of the entire administration of the church, and these are necessary changes. Mr President! I believe that the proposal as a whole is necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u4	Mr President! Churches have pioneered the expansion of the right to vote for young people. It would be interesting to learn from the experiences of both the Lutheran Church and later the Orthodox Church in this practice. In fact, the Orthodox Church is now even slightly ahead of the practice of the Lutheran Church, as the vicar's election also opens the right to vote for 16-year-olds. At the moment it does not exist in the Lutheran Church, the right only applies to the church elections. Unfortunately, however, that youth turnout in the congregation elections has remained rather low, which is of course a common problem in the congregational elections in general. But then the second whole, which is connected to it, concerns Article 108 of the Law. 'which provides that those who perform services and church services, as well as those who work in diaconia and teaching, must be members of the Orthodox Church, and here we are now making certain practical changes to this section. This is a very important principle. Churches and religious communities must have the right to demand the conviction of workers in accordance with their community, and, of course, the very basic condition is that a person belongs to this religious community. I believe that this proposal for its part is very much in line with the principle of freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u5	Mr President! First of all, I believe that the Church has every right to organise its electoral arrangements as they see fit and that this proposal should be respected in this respect. Then I would just like to draw attention to two aspects: The first is that we still have this limit of adulthood, that is, that people get to decide their own affairs at the age of 18. Of course, when it comes to this popular idea in itself and the idea that the voting age should be reduced, you have to ask the logical question that if a person is not allowed to decide his own affairs, whether he can decide on the matters of others. I'll leave this in the air as a question when we talk about this. Then I would like to draw attention to what Mr Räsänen has already said: the objective here is that this could lead to an increase in voting turnout, but that has not happened. I mean, it hasn't happened. It has not had the effect of young people voting in church elections, at least not according to the information I myself have received on this matter. I would like to ask the chairman of the Administrative Committee how this increase in voting turnout among young people was assessed in committee over several years. on the basis of the church and what estimates were made on the Orthodox side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u6	Mr President! The administrative affairs of the churches, not to mention the doctrinal ones, fall within their autonomy, and here the Administrative Committee has put forward a unanimous motion, which I am sure we can all support here, even if we are not members of that denomination. This is, therefore, a matter of reducing the voting age from 18 to 16 years. And it must be hoped that, when young people are able to influence the administration and activity of the congregation also through that voting, such participation and then interest in the church itself and also in the local congregation will grow. Of course, in many denominations the age limit of 15 or 16 years is one that leads to special education — such as on the Lutheran Church’s side of confessional school education and in the free directions of various fifteen camps and similar — when one thinks that they become doctrinally aware of the doctrine of their own church, that they can also take a stand on these matters and also on these personal elections when they have the opportunity, through the right to vote, to have an influence. It is indeed important to emphasise, as Mr Räsänen has already pointed out here, that when you act as a representative of your own church — and also, of course, when you are engaged in teaching in a teaching capacity — it must be absolutely necessary to have a member of that church, and that condition cannot be undermined in any way as legislator.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u7	Mr President! For my part, too, these issues are of course connected with the autonomy of the churches, and in this respect the report is quite good and right. I am particularly interested in this young people's activity and its support, support for all forms of inclusion and the promotion of democracy through this. However, I also think it is a good question what Mr Heinäluoma left in the air, as it were, that, quite often, it is also wise to think that the age limit is then this threshold for eligibility and voting rights and so on. But all in all, President-in-Office, I would like to say so much about the involvement of young people that I think it is very important for these youth councils to be maintained and given real influence in municipal administration, for example. And besides these so-called formal means of youth council, there must also be various forms of participation — such as land use planning, where kindergarten children could participate by drawing comfortable environments, and schoolchildren could do more and more — because children and young people themselves are the best experts in their lives, and so I wanted to deal with this issue in a little more general way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u8	President! This proposal will certainly receive broad support, a reduction in the voting age to 16 years, which has already been stated in the Lutheran Church. As Mrs Heinäluoma has pointed out here, the age limit is 18, and this is also reflected in the fact that, of course, the candidate is only an adult, but only the 18-year-old can stand as a candidate. In the Lutheran Church, most obviously, this was the result of the fact that the confessional school is a success story in our church internationally, unlike in Sweden, for example. In practice, the entire age group, more than the church’s share of the age group, goes to confessional school, and it was assumed that this would then commit more to the church. However, as many speakers have said, this has not happened. With some exceptions, young people have been very lazy in voting in church elections. And what has been a very big problem, unfortunately, the younger adult age groups have been among the most active age groups of divorces from the church. Every time these church issues are discussed here, there are some echoes of the past, and that of course tells us something about church-state relations. Again, I cannot help quoting the Nobel Prize-winning writer T. S. Eliotti, who said that if church-state relations are good, then there is something wrong with church, and if they are bad, then there is something wrong with the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u9	Mr President! This government proposal is good and worthy of support. That representative, Mr Kulmala, pointed out what we in the Committee on Administrative Affairs were actually thinking about, that the Evangelical Lutheran Church has a lower age limit, but there, however, voting turnout is not praiseworthy. However, this cannot be an obstacle, as Mr Kulmala pointed out, and in any case we are happy to grant the Orthodox Church a reduction in the age limit and thereby allow them to experiment equally if it stimulates young people to be more active in voting and otherwise interested in the work of the congregations. Mr President! I myself am in a happy position, as a church councillor in Espoo, to come from a family that is multi-religious. My father is an Evangelical Lutheran and a member of my mother’s Orthodox Church, and that is how I got to know the activities of both congregations. We know how congregations work extremely well for young people as well as for families, for the excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u10	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma raised an important point, that it may not have appeared since the polling stations, that young people, these 16-year-olds, have found the ballot boxes. I immediately made a home-gallup and asked, ‘ Why do you think this is? ’ The answer was that there is no information. Is it the mission of the church, or is it the task of the school, or who is to do it when it reaches the age of 16 and is the election, to communicate information and information, and to advise and instruct, to provide the so-called information-guidance that such an opportunity exists? It is very important that this information is shared. Here I would like to congratulate the Espoo Youth Council, which is Finland’s largest and 20th birthday. It really tells us that young people have influence, that young people can be sound horns, and that is their job. And it is hoped that, as they enter into this decision-making process, they will take part in voting and deciding, they will indeed bring it to their own voice and then things will change in this society. It is very important that information is disseminated. It may now be the message I want to pass on. So let us share the information that such a right comes into force because young people do not necessarily know that information and then understand how important it is to give their own voice. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u11	Mr President! Finland is a model country for the right to vote, a model country for democracy. In this regard, it is also great to see that the Orthodox Church contributes to widening the opportunities for young people to participate in the church’s own administration. A lot of us in this Chamber have also become involved through youth policy. From the beginning of 77 C.E., when the voting age for municipal elections was reduced to 20 years, I was also elected to the City Council of Suonenjoki and was the youngest city councillor in Finland, which is to be said here,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u14	Mr President! I will continue with this speech by Mr Ross. When it comes to young people between 16 and 18 years of age, they are responsible in criminal law and are also involved in paying taxes on their potential income. In that sense, I think it would be worth considering, quite openly, whether, for example, the right to vote in municipal elections could be extended to young people. Especially when the population is ageing and the relative proportion of young people is decreasing, so that the voice of young people is better heard, this should be considered. For this voting activity: In 2014, in the latest parish elections, that general voting turnout was unfortunately at a low level. At that time it was 15.5% and even lower for young people under the age of 18, 9.5%. But that is something, so that is when 9.5 percent of the young people came to give it their voice. Personally, I do not believe that the path to church activity as an active member of the church goes through its voting booth, yes more through bigotry and camp and other activities, but it is for its part in strengthening democracy, and then, especially on the side of these state elections, I think that it should be very openly considered and learned from these denominations about their experiences, how it has worked and how it has been experienced, for example, among older people. I myself have not heard any criticism of this among the older parishioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u15	Mr President! This is certainly an important change in law for the Orthodox Church to involve young people in decision-making, and there is nothing to knock on. But for this debate, which this opens up between 16 and 18 years of age: I have always been a little considerate of it if the voting age and the eligibility age are beginning to differ. In some countries there has been a system in which women are allowed to vote but are not allowed to stand as candidates. Now 16-year-olds are allowed to vote. [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u16	Mr President! Interesting to listen to this debate on this age of voting in connection with the church elections. I myself am a member of the Administrative Committee, and the duties of the Administrative Committee include many interesting things, including these ecclesiastical matters. In the area of church affairs, the debate in committee is not so much about content; it is only up to the committee to adopt or reject the laws and standards that the church has set and proposed for itself, and the debate on content remains here in the Chamber of Parliament and then expands into these municipal and state elections, which is interesting. However, I strongly support Mr Heinäluoma's thinking that the right to decide the affairs of others follows the right to decide their own affairs. However, this participation and participation of young people should not be tied to age limits alone. It is good to remember that during the last period, in the reform of the municipal law, for the first time we adopted the law on youth councils and the opportunities for young people to influence more widely in the municipality, and in that respect this development must be supported — when we talk about the involvement of young people — in a broad sense, not just in terms of political decision-making. In this context, I would also like to support the young people's participation programme, which Mrs Viitanen has highlighted very well, in order to involve them more widely in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u17	Mr President! It is good to have a debate on this, because although this now concerns the matters of the Orthodox Church and everyone agrees that we should do what the church wants, this has broader dimensions to which we have referred several times. I would like to thank Mr Räsä for this information — although the chairman of the Administrative Committee did not have time to give it to us now — so good that these figures came for one year. After all, these arguments are very strong and solemn — strengthening democracy — but I remained genuinely to ask whether democracy will be strengthened if less than 10% votes. It's a fine argument, but what's the reality? And when this debate has been taking place for at least 10 years, if not a little more, also in the case of the national elections, there has always been this argument that this would increase the turnout when there was a chance to influence. And now that we've been through this. The church used so far, so it is noted that it has not had an impact on the turnout, but less than 10 percent use the opportunity, which is less than the average, when you can always ask that if the basis for any reform is not working, then is it a reasonable course of action? Then I come to what Mr Viitanen, Mr Räsänen and, lastly, Mr Haavisto said that is there any other way to get people, young people, to hear and influence their affairs. I tend to think that the examples of the representatives of Viitanen, Räsänen and Haavisto are correct. It is a little old-fashioned to think only of representative democracy and just that, once every four years, a representative is elected who then decides. Today, the will to exert influence, according to my own observations, especially among young people — and I am taking this speech with some caution because my hair is already slightly thinned — is related specifically to the issues that are very close to it. And so, as far as the church is concerned, would it make sense to have representatives of young people themselves involved in the planning of confessional schools, in the extremely important and fine youth work of the church? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u18	At this stage, I would ask the representatives to note that the session will end on 13.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u19	Mr President! Kids are smart. For example, as a long-standing MP, I have had a great deal of contact with schoolchildren: there are many visitors and young people and children of different ages here in Parliament, and we also visit schools from time to time. I have often found that very wise questions come from children and young people, many times we too. I thought the best question came from a fourth grader who asked me what was right and what was wrong. Well, that's the point. Since children and young people are smart and wise and have curiosity, good questions, it is indeed up to us all to consider how to make them more and more involved. That is why I am still underlining these very informal practices, practices, everything I said in my previous speech. I think this idea of confessional school, which has just been put forward, is very good, and indeed everything that can be done at school. We have just had enough time to change the word that I have heard that Mrs Heinäluoma is here because she has been in the school council in due course. In other words, these young new experts and experts will also come through them, when even when you are in the learning environment, in school or in kindergarten, you will learn that you are curious, active, you will be given the opportunity to realize yourself. These are the challenges. In fact, as Mr Karin has said, we could really think about a whole which we could do to ensure that children and young people can be more and more involved in this society. I'm sure that's how it's going to get interesting. And then, of course, there is the information mentioned here. Knowledge of how you can make a difference is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u20	Mr President! This bill has served Parliament in that it has, in my opinion, raised a perfectly good debate now on this possible calculation of the right to vote. Among other things, representatives of Heinäluoma and Haavisto have raised quite good points of view. I would just like to comment on this when Mr Haavisto raised the link between the right to vote and the right to vote, which is now not going to happen in this motion: in the Orthodox Church in the election of the vicar, women can still vote but do not stand. I am not criticising this line in any way. On the contrary, I respect that they are acting on the principle that is the starting point of their doctrine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-17-ps-120.u21	Mr. Speaker! In short, I do not shy away from the idea that eligibility for elections and the right to vote are different. I think that many 16-year-olds are relieved not to be subject to municipal decision-making. It's not that easy. We all know that. President! There is, for example, a children's council and a youth council in Kuopio. The enthusiasm there for voting and influence among young people also encourages me, at least in this respect, that 16 years could also be the voting age in municipal elections.
