ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In his letter to Parliament on 1 February 2017, Paula Lehtomäki has asked to be relieved of office in order to continue as State Secretary for the Prime Minister's term of office in the Prime Minister's Office. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u2	Day-to-day schedule 10. The Prime Minister's announcement of the Government's policy in 2017 and the most important proposals to Parliament. Group speeches after the Prime Minister's presentation may take up to 5 minutes. Then, at my discretion, I will issue replies of up to 2 minutes, which will be reserved using the V button. Three hours have been set aside for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The long-term vision of the government is clear. According to the Government Programme, "Finland will be a renewable, caring and safe country in 2025, where each of us can feel important. There is trust in our society." The government’s objectives are also clear: the employment rate has been raised to 72% during the Government’s term of office and the number of employed persons has increased by 110,000 persons and the debt-to-GDP ratio has ceased by the year 21. This is exactly what the first strategic government programme in Finland's history means: the vision and objectives are clear, but the means can and must be laid down so that the goals do not run away. At the inauguration of the Parliament, the President of the Republic stated that there can be no failure and there are no easy solutions. He also added that we MEPs are a lot of guards. There's a world next to us, and we've got to get the home nest fixed. The home base was in bad shape in the summer of 2015, when the current government took responsibility. They hadn't done it for a long time. We set out to tackle the ten billion sustainability gap with three artificial baskets: savings of EUR 4 billion, structural reforms of EUR 4 billion and growth and employment measures of EUR 2 billion. A major reform of the pension system has already taken place. Social and regional reform is progressing, and the whole will be brought to Parliament in the spring. There is still work to be done to reduce the costs of public sector activities. According to today's estimate, decisions have been made for a total of EUR 4 billion of savings of EUR 3.96 billion. Mr President! For several years, the downward spiral of the economy has been reversed. Your turn has happened now. Employment performance was particularly strong at the end of the year. Central government debt increased by only EUR 2.5 billion last year. There are specific reasons for this, but the fact is that, according to preliminary data, central government debt relative to GDP did not increase at all. Even the deficit will, according to my own preliminary estimate, be lower than budgeted. Local government finances also strengthened last year by EUR 450 million, and we are about to reach the target level set for the government term. The Competitiveness Pact and the Government's actions will have an impact. Good news has been coming from all over Finland: companies invest and hire people, even long-term unemployment has slowly fallen. Under the leadership of this government, trust in Finland has been restored. It is necessary to stick to the path of reform and employment in order to maintain confidence. The 4 billion-dollar savings decisions have now been made. But, as we have said several times, we are committed to refocusing, structural reforms and employment measures, so that no further cuts are needed. The employment rate target of 72% is high but not impossible. Why should we not be able to do so when the employment rate in Sweden, Denmark and Norway moves at 75%? In Finland, too, the employment rate has risen to almost 75 per cent, In Åland it is over 80 per cent. If we had the employment rate in Ostrobothnia throughout the country, public finances would be broadly balanced. If we had the employment rate in Åland, our overall sustainability gap would be more or less in order. With the employment rate in Åland, we would now pay off our debt, and quickly. In the framework debate, the most important thing is to find ways of achieving employment rates and to improve our system of education, research and innovation as a whole. The aim is to ensure that our knowledge base and the prerequisites for companies' R & D activities are in order. Improving employment is an important means of halting inequalities, but new ways are also needed. Mr President! During the spring session, the Parliament will be confronted with a series of historic reforms in public services and administration. The Government will shortly submit a proposal for reform of the regional and social welfare and health care sector. It strengthens democracy and inclusion and modernises public services by assembling the tasks of some 350 separate public organisations for 18 provinces led by the elected provincial council. The administration is becoming clearer and more efficient. The Sote reform has been in progress for four parliamentary years. The Constitutional Committee of the Parliament has four times in two years' opinions stressed that reform is necessary and urgent from the point of view of the implementation of fundamental rights. In order to safeguard Finnish services and reduce the sustainability gap in public finances, the most important thing is also to make decisions in Parliament. It is time for decisions, not new models. The provinces become multidisciplinary. In addition to social and health care, they will receive a total of 24 other rescue services for environmental health care and for employment and growth. Administrative simplification is extensive: the division of tasks between municipalities, regions and states is based on the constitution and economic thinking about which actor is best at managing the matter effectively. The Finnish model has now been built in the draft Act on Freedom of Choice, which transfers resources from the current relatively expensive special or demanding services to services close to people. Every Finn can choose for himself in the future; it is no longer up to the size of the wallet. Mr President! This spring there will also be a major reform of vocational education and training. It modernises the legislation, funding and qualifications of vocational education and training as a whole. The aim is to secure a place for each end-of-school student in secondary education and to reduce the number of drop-outs. The aim is to enable adults in working life to develop their own skills, reduce red tape, increase cooperation between educational institutions and working life and improve workplace learning. The new training agreement will be introduced as a flexible path to working life. We are also preparing a proposal that will enable universities to cooperate more extensively in education. Postal regulation will be reformed by making universal service delivery and collection obligations and letter speed requirements more flexible. The legislative amendment will enable new market-based service concepts and the opportunities offered by digitalisation for the delivery of mail. The bill allows the five-day distribution of newspapers in sparsely populated areas, as is the case today. The acceleration of digitalisation is progressing. There's a lot of red tape going down. The pilot work continues: we present a presentation on language testing in basic education and continue to dismantle barriers to education exports. For public employment and business services, we present regional experiments. A parliamentary monitoring group shall be set up for the purpose of reforming the financing of the transport network and paying for the correction debt. We must now move on from the work of the parliamentary group in the previous parliamentary term and make concrete decisions. [Ville Niinistö’s interlude] In spring, we will also give seven reports. The defence policy report will be ready this month. The report is concise and realistic. Ensuring Finland’s credible self-defence also in the next few decades requires a commitment to large material procurements over several government periods. Large purchases are scheduled for 2019–2031. We do not put large purchases against services and benefits. It has also been a spirit in the debates of the chairmen of the parliamentary parties. Parliament is already discussing a historic ambitious energy strategy, in which we propose, among other things, to abandon coal and to halve the use of imported oil. This spring, the government will start implementing an ambitious energy transition. We will extend the climate policy objectives and means, for example, in the first climate plan under the Climate Act, which we will give to Parliament during the spring. Mr President! The situation in world politics is worrying. It's a stormy world. In the British referendum the majority elected Brexit, in the United States the people voted for Donald Trump as president. Finland respects the election results. However, we know who we are and on what basis we stand. We build bridges, we break walls. When it comes to threats, we're not naive, but we're not defiant either. You may also disagree with friends. It is natural, and it should not be baffled more than magnified. One hundred-year-old Finland is a country that defends international law, human rights and other fundamental rights. Finland helps those in need, Finland works tirelessly for equality and women's rights, Finland defends the joint decisions taken in climate policy. Finland wants Europe and the European Union to continue to be socially, economically and politically strong. Finland defends rule-based free trade. Finland believes that even those who disagree can talk constructively to each other. We seek solutions to global crises, promote dialogue. We are active in the midst of crises. We will step up our cooperation in these areas. Mr President! The description of the operating environment of the Finnish foreign and security policy report, which was completed last summer, began with the phrase ‘a strong change in the external and security policy environment continues in areas close to Finland as in the world’. In such a situation, we must also be able to see beyond individual people, decisions or governments and beyond our immediate geographical neighbourhood. There's something happening near here. This year we are faced with a number of European elections, the results of which I am sure few will dare to predict. Election campaigns, possible attempts to influence them and the outcome of the elections can have a significant impact on our operating environment. This year we are looking forward to an accelerated debate on the fight against terrorism. There is a broad consensus on the basic premise: the fight against an organisation such as Isil must continue with a broad-based international front. It is important that this does not cause further instability, for example in the Middle East and North Africa. This would cause more human suffering in the region. This would increase the pressure to go on a dangerous flight to Europe, for example. Mr President! The future of the Union was seriously discussed in Malta at the Heads of State last week. I put it there that we have to choose a pragmatic middle road line. No opening up of the Treaties, no new leaps deeper into integration or the renationalisation of things. The EU has not been able to deliver on its promises and implement its decisions effectively. More attention needs to be paid to implementation. The legislative package that is important to us is the development of the internal market and climate and energy policy. Finland supports the deepening of EU defence cooperation. Even after Brexit, Finland wants to maintain close links with Great Britain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u4	Now for the group discussion round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u5	Mr President! We begin the work of independent Finland's hundredth Parliaments as one of the most stable and progressive countries in the world. We have good relations with our neighbours, and there is social peace in the country. Internationally, however, the situation has changed in a more volatile direction. As unrest in the world increases, it is increasingly important that Finland is united. Unity is the strength of a small nation, especially in security. The future Presidency of the Arctic Council will give us a greater role in this. The city centre does not approve of people being discriminated against. We strive for the Finns regardless of their background or place of residence. Every human being is valuable and human rights are not commercial. The central parliamentary group relies on international law and respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Mr President! One of the best gifts for 100-year-old Finland is that a turn for the better has finally been made. Finland’s economy is growing, and more and more people have been given a job. To achieve a turnaround has required cooperation. The Competitiveness Pact brought stability. The agreement is also exceptional evidence of Finnish cooperation in international terms. Finland has reversed the recession and is heading in a better direction. For example, in my own country, Lapland, there are now 1,100 fewer unemployed people than one year ago. The corresponding figure for the whole of Finland is 34,000. Travel's a bitch. Turku Shipyard has its order books full for seven years to come. There's an all-time recruitment campaign going on in the car industry. Äänekoski makes the biggest investment in Finnish forest-economy history. The number of cancellations and bankruptcys has decreased. Getting into this situation has taken work, sacrifice and guts. It's been worth it. Now we need to strengthen our efforts. The central parliamentary group does not want to jeopardise the positive development by further cuts. The most important thing for us is to improve employment, so that more and more young people and the long-term unemployed can get jobs. Mr President! The restoration of Finland continues. Social and health services and regional reform will build a well-being society. We will do so in order to strengthen democracy. Reforms must be made in order to reduce inequalities and reduce health inequalities. Professor Juho Saare's inequality team and basic income experiment support this. This is a concern for tomorrow — omsorg aven i morgon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u6	Mr President! As the term of government draws closer to its mid-terms, we can say that during this term of government we have begun to reform our determined society. The aim of that reform is to make Finns a united nation in the future. Work on this goal will continue in 2017. Fortunately, a turning point has already taken place in the economy. Reform is not easy in all respects, but, as the President of the Republic already quoted said in his opening speech to the House, one cannot fail to do so. All of our reform work is guided by the understanding that without jobs there will be no well-being. Finland is an open economy in a global world that is constantly changing. That's why we can't stay where we are. Renewal is vital for Finland. Similarly, it has been vitally important that it has taken place through a contractual society — together. A person like the January engagement will continue to have an order in Finland. There is no order for paternal resistance to anything that hinders development. Mr President! I shall now mention some important examples of reforms that will take place this year for the people of Peru. The flow of mail and the availability of postal services are one of the cornerstones of Finnish society. True Finns consider it important to ensure the availability of postal services throughout the country. Society is changing and postal services need to change along with it, because they will continue to be needed, always in new forms. As part of the government’s reforms, the Finns of Finland want the experiment of the Swedish-language voluntary service, which begins this year, to be carried out as widely as possible. We don't have enough for two or three municipalities to experiment with. Only a sufficiently extensive experiment can make valid summaries of the impact of experiments on the language skills of our young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u9	Madam President! After a long hike in the wilderness, Finland's economy shows signs of improvement. Employment shows positive developments. In many areas, investment is already more active than in previous years. For a while now, trade and construction have been moving in the right direction, thanks to more sensible regulation. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party welcomes the positive economic news. They strengthen the belief that the big line of government's economic policy is the right one and that it is starting to produce results. The same message is expressed by the recent report of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. The Evaluation Council has also identified a number of key challenges for which a great deal remains to be done. Improving the functioning of the labour market for both men and women is essential if the employment target of 72% is to be maintained. With 72% employment, indebtedness is broken and the financing of welfare services is secured. The impact of the Competitiveness Pact must be taken seriously by the evaluation council. Its original purpose was to significantly strengthen employment through increased cost competitiveness and to avoid adjustment of a total of EUR 1.5 billion. Cost competitiveness is improving but less ambitious. The impact on public finances is also missed. This also underscores the need for new measures to support employment, so that more and more Finns reach jobs. Mr President! The uncertainty of the world economy resulting from political turmoil is not diminishing. In the EU, Finland must act decisively against the spread of protectionism and, because of our export trade, improve the functioning of the internal market. In the future, we must be able to get a living from the world. We also need to put our own nest in order. We don't have any buffers for a possible negative shock. It is for this reason alone that Finland must take all measures to strengthen competitiveness that are in our own hands. Finland has not yet even received a corresponding share of the growth in world trade. The people have chosen us as political decision-makers to solve the problems of the fatherland, not to run away from them. The main problems are more or less known and are also known, by what type of measures they can be solved. It must be clear that the situation picture underlying the economic decisions is realistic and based on the preparation of posts. More solutions will be made in the mid-summer review in order to strengthen the economic growth that is well under way. Mr President! Society is changing, and change is fast. It is important for the assembly to ensure that everyone keeps pace with the change. For example, freedom of choice for social services is being implemented precisely because everyone can get help in good time for their difficulties and difficulties. It is time to put an end to endless uncertainty and complete the reform. It is irresponsible to raise the issue of the return to square one, as some on the red - green side of the hall have suggested. It is a hear expensive and irresponsible play at the expense of the health of those who need services and also in the future of the service providers. During this year, a number of important reforms will be completed and taken forward. In addition to the social welfare reform, many major educational reforms are ongoing and progressing. They contribute to securing the knowledge base and renewal of the future. The tax burden on labour has already been reduced by one billion, the dismantling of red tape is on a broad front, the traffic cycle will enable new work and growth in the transport sector, and much more. All of this takes the Finns towards the better. Madam President! The Coalition Party Parliamentary Group fully supports all government activities that increase the supply of work, remove incentives traps and make it easier to hire people. For example, relief is needed for over-indebtedness. We support measures to promote entrepreneurship, strengthen conditions for competition and increase consumer choice. That is what Finland needs now: faith in the future and the way things are done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u10	Mr President! The world has changed in a way that was difficult to predict a few years ago. Closure, protectionism and outright racism have risen to challenge Western democracy based on openness. The use of force has risen to challenge an international system based on agreements and cooperation. Today, difficult questions are presented with easy answers that seek justification for hatred and confrontation. We do not accept this development. We are defending democracy, transparency and equality. Finland is a small country and, as such, our interest is a system based on cooperation and international law. As an export-driven economy, we benefit from international trade and the cross-border movement of people, goods and ideas. We do not benefit from confrontations. Finland has been promoting cooperation on the basis of agreements as a larger player than its size. That's the part we should go back to now. Finland must be a bridge builder and promote European cooperation. Mr President! The phenomena described above do not come from nothing. Anger and fear are the consequences of people’s disappointment and loss of faith for the better. These people should not be abandoned because they are disappointed or afraid. We have to give them hope and convince them that they're being cared for. The SDP's option is to keep everything involved. Unfortunately, the events in Finland in recent years have not at least strengthened the Finnish people’s belief that everything is to be included. It has not been the common will. Once taken from low incomes and middle incomes, high incomes have been given. This is not fair. Keeping everyone involved means keeping the weak side, the side of people who have the least power and the least chance of doing so. Similarly, the SDP considers it fair to help and support small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and internationalise. For us, this does not mean that the richest tithe of entrepreneurs receives thousands of euros of tax cuts. Our alternative is a fair market economy, not friend capitalism. Mr President! The main issue of the opening part-session, in addition to the management of employment, is the reform of social security. It is important for people that they get a doctor and that older people can grow old with dignity in nursing homes as well. We need to focus on reducing health and welfare inequalities and curbing the rise in costs. In this way, we can afford to provide the quality and needs of every Finnish citizen in the future. Regional administrations and the market shares of companies are secondary concerns. We Social Democrats are in favour of freedom of choice. We are not opposed to involving private companies in the provision of services. However, it should serve goals and not be an end in itself. It's up to the public authorities to sit in the driver's seat, not in the fearer's seat. Tax money is intended for services, not for profits of private companies. When making such a major reform, it is important that it is done in a controlled manner, avoiding ideological, risky experiments. Health centres, care for the elderly and disability services are too important to be used as a stick horse for anything else. We appeal to the Government: now put all other interests aside in the social welfare reform and focus on building the best and most equal social and health services for Finns. You can count on the support of the SDP to achieve that goal. [Department :Actually done! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u11	Mr President! In my generation’s youth, Finland opened up to the world. In the late 1990s, Finland was a country with confidence in the future. Europe had been freed from the dividing wall. The freedom of people to move brought space to breathe. Western democracy, human rights and progress inevitably moved forward. During this time, our young people grow up in a different world. Geopolitics have returned, Britain is leaving the European Union, many countries are closing down, including in the defence of humanity. The human measure is how he works at a difficult time. Finland must now be the hope in the world we want to see. This is what the Greens expect from our government. In Finland, we need to create hope for all Finns for a better tomorrow. In the world, we must have a voice for freedom, solidarity, equality and humanity. I'm afraid so. The Sipilä government has lost two years now. It has lost two years of unsurveillanced cuts in education and low incomes. It has wasted two years on the government’s own actions to discriminate between Finns and to limit the implementation of human rights. Now it's time to change course. Finns deserve better. Mr President! The government cuts down on valuable things, and it calls it reform. With the government's cuts in education, the brain drain from our universities to the world has increased. Major cuts in vocational education and training threaten to deprive thousands of young people of the place where they are trained, and amis training, especially in rural areas, escapes the reach of young people. Inequality of day care has increased, and a week ago a survey of nannies and kindergarten teachers was hard to read. There is no longer enough time for children, and the children most in need will not have enough time. These cuts have also been pushed through by government parties in most municipalities. It is truly human underestimating that government parties speak of the value of early childhood education in municipal elections, but their own actions in government speak differently. Such value choices that will be cut from the future of our children will not raise Finland. In addition to the surgeries, the government has concluded one big act: a competitiveness pact. The Economic Policy Evaluation Council published its strong criticisms of this decision, which started with the idea of Prime Minister Sipilä. It says that kiky creates less than half of the jobs that the government has promised it. It would be good to have an answer from the government now. At the same time, the government's tax reduction towards high incomes is so expensive that the result is an additional debt of EUR 500 million, according to the Council. What does the Prime Minister say now to those nurses, teachers and other public sector professionals whose holiday money has paid for this idea? Last autumn, the Greens warned that the tax reduction should not be paid by additional cuts from low incomes or services. It would now be important to have a clear direct answer from the government: can you promise the Finns that you will not make further cuts from low incomes or services? Mr President! Instead of cutting and closing down, reforms must be made to improve our economy and employment. There is a broad consensus on this in the Chamber. The Greens think that Finland should be open to the world. Now that the President Because of Trump’s policy, many top experts are looking for a safe haven, Finland should be open to creativity. Eliminating labour needs testing, significantly increasing funding for higher education institutions and attracting excellence to Finland. These are the experts in the world who are looking for a country that is open to new ideas. Instead of squatting at home, we also need to look for ways to raise people to work to make their own choices in an economically viable way. The Greens have three proposals: to implement free early childhood education and reform of parental leave in order to facilitate flexible work. Renovating the housing allowance to reduce the incentive traps. And the transfer tax will be abolished or at the very least reduced in order to make it easier for you to move on to work. So there are human alternatives to dismantling the traps. Mr President! During this time, Finland should remember the values with which we have been successful so far. We are a Nordic welfare state based on civilisation, equality and sustainable development. Hope for the future and desire to build a better tomorrow together with all Finns are the basis for all human progress in this country. Let us hold on to this hope and this desire to work together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u12	Mr President! Many Finns are already tired of the reform of social and health services known as social welfare soup. People's frustration and people's uncertainty are understandable, since it has been an exceptionally confusing process. Nevertheless, the Left Alliance intends to ensure this spring that every Finn knows what the Government's social welfare proposal is really about. The Government's social welfare proposal does not implement the original objectives of the reform to improve basic services, reduce health inequalities and streamline care chains. On the other hand, the centre, the Coalition Party and the Finns-of-Spanish are engaged in an historic major project of forced and externalisation of public services. The government is now putting opening up the market to the health business ahead of the original objectives of reform. The business of large health groups is more important to the government than equality of citizens. Mr President! The Left Alliance aims to reform social welfare and health care to improve public services. Although the well-being of Finns has increased, health inequalities between the poor and the rich have remained high. The life expectancy of Finns has increased, but life expectancy of the lowest-income men has in practice stagnated since the 1990s. The Sote reform was supposed to be about integration, strengthening public services and regional equality. It was supposed to be about spreading good practices such as the Kainuu and South Karelian Wars throughout the country. Instead of throwing away patients and costs, responsibility for the care chain had to be transferred to one body and information passed between all those responsible for care. Social care and health care professionals were to work more closely together. The government is now offering us the opposite of integration. Open health care is differentiated from social care and primary health care is opened as a game field for large health groups. The basic services of the regional service establishment will be coercive and the remaining special services will be privatised by requiring at least 15 per cent of the funding to be directed to customer vouchers that cannot obtain services from the regional business establishment. There will be purchase service contracts on top of this. Responsibility for service chains will be spread more and more, and regional disparities will increase as private service production is concentrated in cities. Public services are weakened as more tax resources are channelled into dividends and tax havens from large health groups. As forced companyisation and privatisation, according to all estimates, increase costs, savings of EUR 3 billion can only be achieved by raising already too high customer charges or by reducing services. Even Jan Vapaavuori of the Coalition Party understands better the risks involved in opening up the social services market, for example. In his blog, Vapaavuori writes aptly that 'in addition to the advantages of the market economy, it is good to think that the capitalist is often smarter and more clever than the legislator'. Mr President! The goal of the Left Alliance is to provide social services based on the regional government. The public body must continue to be the provider and main producer of the services. Customer fees for social welfare and health care must be reduced and health centre fees must be abolished throughout the country. We are also very much in favour of more autonomy and more choice. It is also entirely possible without this great project of incorporation and privatisation. The Left Alliance wants a social welfare reform for parliamentary preparation. Such a major reform must be carried forward through broad parliamentary consensus and the strengthening of public services. The social welfare of large health groups promoted by this government is not a reform that Finland needs and deserves on its 100th birthday. Yes, bad decisions can be omitted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u13	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi brode nu focusera på hur vi tillsammans bygger Finland vidare. I år, då vi firar 100 år av självständighet, kan man inte tillräckligt poängtera regeringens, riksdagens, ledande politikers samt enskilda ledamöters roll då det gäller att skapa framtidstro och hopför alla finländare, inclusive den Svenskspråkiga befolkningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u14	Madam President! During the parliamentary term, Parliament will be faced with large-scale legislative packages and major questions of principle. The most challenging issue is the social and regional reform, which now needs to be accompanied by the opposition at the latest. Traffic routes are everyone's property, too. There is also a need for a common vision in the defence report, particularly on the financing of military procurement. Similarly, the Intelligence Act and its amendments to the Constitution require consensus. All of these are policies that go beyond the parliamentary term. These projects should not fall into election-based politics, but the theme of the centenary year Together — Tillsammans must live up to it. Instead, KD will do everything in its power to ensure that the disastrous reform of the alcohol law envisaged by the government does not materialise. As a nation, we cannot afford the harmful effects of the law on public health, the economy and public administration — not to mention the tragedies that children, spouses and other loved ones face. We are defending valuable old age and high-quality hospice treatment, but we are opposed to the citizens' initiative on euthanasia. We continue to support the citizens' initiative to preserve the marriage between a woman and a man in the parliamentary process. Madam President! Parliament is going to the session which has begun, even in a state of disquieting and uncertain moods. It would have been reasonable for the voters to see the government go to the spending limits debate on a normal schedule and to discuss economic policies in March. It is therefore only to be guessed whether the same line of action, in which the families with children, the sick, the long-term unemployed and the elderly have been the subject of surgery, will continue. Surgery is surgery, even if it is called structural reform. Is the postponement of the timetable a worrying message of internal government disputes and perhaps a wavering decision-making capacity? The Government has already started a discussion on the maintenance of transport routes during the session break. The KD delegation welcomes the fact that a parliamentary working party is now taking up work on development. We are open to new solutions to ensure regional equality. Foreign road users, especially heavy traffic, must also be made to pay for the maintenance of routes. We are also in favour of a controlled, step-by-step depreciation of the car tax. There would also be a great need for real parliamentary preparation for a regional reform of the social welfare system, the finalisation of which will touch the boundaries of the parliamentary term. It is of the utmost importance that the reform of the social security system can finally be carried through in such a way that, during the next parliamentary election campaign, no party has the need to tear the decisions that have already been taken into the hands of an election horse. In parliamentary work, proposals would also probably develop more in order to serve the original purpose of the reform. Madam President! There is also uncertainty from worry to spring in the European Union. Economic problems and the pressure of asylum seekers are increasing extremist groups in Italy, France and many other Member States. After the French and German elections, Greece's financial arrangements may once again be up-to-date. In addition to economic problems, the Brexit negotiations are also to be resolved, whose price tag for Finland needs to be minimised. If the UK’s net contribution is granulated to the remaining Member States, Finland’s annual net contribution will increase by more than EUR 100 million. If trade relations suffer, the decline will increase further. There have been stronger voices in Europe that see the British leaving the opportunity to take steps, if not even leaps towards the federal state in many ways. We are at a crossroads where you would think it would be easy to choose: cooperation between independent Member States or deeper solidarity and growing problems? KD says 'no' to increasing solidarity, but 'yes' to cooperation. Mr President! In the middle of all this, there's going to be municipals. The quality of local services, decent care and support, is particularly emphasised in the care of children, the elderly, people with disabilities and mental health rehabilitation. The decision-making process requires a more humane grip than the government’s line, for a valuable everyday life belongs to each of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u15	Before the debate, Prime Minister Sipilä, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u16	Madam President! Thank you for your group contributions. In a very constructive spirit, we're going to go to the season. This is going to be a busy period: 120 government proposals, 7 reports, quite large entities will be discussed here. We're going to be busy if we're going to be Midsummer to get it all sorted out. It's clear. Careful handling is especially needed for these large packages. Just a few things came up here: First of all, about this mess: I am sure that the Minister of Responsibility will respond to the contributions that have been made to it. But, of course, we are building an unbroken integration chain on the common basis agreed for the last period, and we are building it on less shoulders, as agreed for the last period. Now this has become the subject of individual means of discussion, such as incorporation. It's just a tool. For the service user and the service provider, this way of organising it will not be visible. They've made this a bigger bogeyman than it is now. In the SDP's speech, the reduction of entrepreneurship, which has been discussed several times in the autumn, has risen once again. When, last season, you yourself dropped 6% to the benefit of large companies and large owners, I think it is only fair that small entrepreneurs who work in the form of partnerships should receive a 5% reduction in their entrepreneurship. To correct this tax gap between limited liability companies and partnerships. Entrepreneurship must also be encouraged in other forms of company, and that is what the government has now done. What you did last year with regard to corporation tax was to be supported, and I am not opposed to it, but we are now putting other forms of company in the same position. With regard to the timetable for the spending limits and the spending limits, we made this big picture quite clear. So the 4 billion-dollar savings decisions are in place. We need more measures to promote employment, that is obvious. The objective of increasing the employment rate is a tough one. In December we were at 69%, and the target is 72. It is not impossible, but it is a hard goal and requires more action. And there in the reform basket we are not yet in the finish line. Most of it is a social war, and pension reform has already been carried out. We still have some work to do in order to complete the task of dismantling public finances. What, then, is the difference between reform and surgery? We have never justified a 4 billion package of savings as a reform, certainly not. They are clear savings and painful ones. But reforms are also needed. Let me give you one example of the reforms that have been discussed: the whole package of enterprise aid reform, EUR 3.8 billion. We had a debate yesterday, among other things, on whether we could find elements there that would make the whole package of business aid more conducive to reforms. Only 11% of this is identified as aid to encourage reform. It is clear that then someone will lose support, someone will get more, but we will not be seeking savings in the whole. This is the spirit of the game when it comes to changing structures, changing priorities, a new direction for growth and improving employment rates. Whether there is a solution to this has always been the case with all the governments in turn. An extremely difficult whole as an example, but once again we are going through it and we are also challenging the industry to bring forward suggestions on what kind of business support could be targeted at the activities of Tekes and the activities of the Academy of Finland, for example, so that we can strengthen our expertise and product development, because they depend on it to grow in the long run.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u17	Let's go to the debat. I ask the participants to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up. The group speakers can take the floor for 2 minutes and then turn to 1 minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u18	Madam President! The Prime Minister said in his own speech that last year there was an increase of EUR 2.5 billion in central government debt. EUR 2.5 billion is a lot of money, but it is half as much as anticipated, and it is billions less than what was owed by the Social Democrats when they were the Finance Minister's Party. The Greens would also take more debt than the government for this year, not to mention the Left Alliance. The deficit will now be lower than estimated. Central government debt in relation to GDP would not increase. The unemployment rate was less than 8 per cent in December, having been over 9 per cent in the previous year's Christmas. Consumers' confidence in their own economy has strengthened, the confidence in the economy was last as strong six years ago. Exports have increased by 1.4 per cent, private consumption by 2.1 per cent and investments by 3.1 per cent per year. Prime Minister, what is this about? How strong is the economic transition?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u19	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister and other group speakers for their good contributions. I will make some comments on the remarks made by the opposition. President Rinne mentioned that low incomes were taken and given to high incomes. Yes, we must correct enough that the tax reduction in connection with kiky came to all Finns [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u22	Madam President! From that speech by Mr Terho, it is easy to continue this theme of the centenary year, and together with that unity and the building of Finland forward, we need to find a tune in this room. This is where the government is now on the right track with this economic development and with these solutions and, for example, with the aim of breaking Finland's debt and ending its debt. Of course, at that point I could ask the opposition: are you committed to breaking the debt and putting an end to the debt and not increasing the debt burden for future generations? When you listen to those speeches or your alternative presentations, there are very many debt - adding items and investments and others. In this situation, where we are heading for a high economic climate, it may no longer make sense to revitalise economic policy. That 72% employment target set by the Government is absolutely central to the future of Finns, to the financing of the Finnish economy and the services of Finnish people. That is an absolutely central objective. I am very pleased that the government is determined to move towards it. We still have problems achieving that objective. At the moment, we have a positive situation: there are many job vacancies and they are opening up across the country. But the encounter problem is real. Why do we not find domestic labour in these vacancies? Why is it that this group of beneficiaries of benefits and labour market policies is not employed? Involved social security is an issue that must now be carefully studied and opened up to these people for active activity and therefore for work, and I believe that this is where the government will continue to work hard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u23	Mr President! First of all, Mr Terho: Yes, this government tax line favours well-paid people, for example, this entrepreneurial deduction, which leaves little or nothing for hairdressers but gives significantly to pharmacists, lawyers and doctors. Then I would like to say to Mr Jokinen that under the option of the SDP indebtedness is slower than under the government option. But, Prime Minister, with regard to this war: You made a political decision in which you decided to put a private and public service provider on the same line. It is in the process of leading to this coercion, which is fragmentation of services and, in fact, increasing costs. I asked you at the municipal election exam for the presidents. Towards municipal elections last autumn, what will happen if a private company goes bankrupt, who will then produce the services? To that end, the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, said that, in fact, this has not yet been considered, is a small matter, but now I would like to have an answer to that. Have you considered that if a private company goes bankrupt, who will take over? Is it the case that the public sector needs to maintain resources to get this done? Then, Prime Minister Sipilä, I would ask you when we sent you a letter a few weeks ago about this Summer Job package and campaign, so you have not answered, but could you answer now: would it be a good opportunity for these young people to get to know working life through summer work such a campaign, where the government would be central to pulling things forward with the municipalities and the third sector? I hope, Prime Minister, that you will answer because we have 48,000 young people without a place of study, without a job. Would this be a way of tackling this now, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u24	Mr President! What the government often forgets in its speeches and, above all, in its actions is that it is the duty and duty of the government to show all Finns that we have room to survive in this country, to live a good life, to have a job and a livelihood, not to feel that I or my children do not have equal opportunities. Thus, not everyone feels that they are involved in the emerging positive signals of what is in the economy. Youth unemployment is high, and one fifth of young men under 25 in particular are outside work and education. Social security has been cut from those on low incomes, weakened from those on social security who have not made it to work. Do you think unemployment is their fault, or should they rather be helped to involve them? This inequality is the one that has created a climate like this in Finland, where people feel like they don't have the space and the opportunity to survive. That is why the government must now pay attention to this. Higher education cuts, the atmosphere in the research world of having to look abroad for jobs, increasing this feeling of lack of vision, and so government action can undermine economic growth and employment development, which otherwise in this international economic environment are on the way for the better, and that is a good thing. So now the government should focus on those employment-enhancing and skills-level and inclusive measures, and I would like to hear a clear answer to that. When the Prime Minister said that the cuts were behind us, it is a good thing that you say so, but it was a little unclear that, if you do not think that you can find enough means to promote employment, then, in the spring debate, is the option of cutting still on the table, as Mr Orpo has suggested, and what forms of employment are you looking for? Are they raising people or punishing people and giving them slack from the point of view of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u27	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, this coercion and outsourcing of services is not a small detail in this social reform, but this line that the government has now chosen will completely change the nature of the social welfare reform and also means that the key objective of the social welfare reform, namely the objective of integrating services, will be jeopardised. In other words, the government has now put the market economy of services ahead of the original objectives of the social welfare reform, and that is something that we cannot accept in the Left Alliance. This model, which has now been chosen, is also not based on the parliamentary work that was done in the previous period. During the previous period, only one party found support for this market model and it was a coalition. [Department : Now you can find more! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u29	Värderade fru talman! Jag notar med tilfredsställese att statsministern constaterade att skulle sysselsättningsläget reserve dirt bara i hela landet som det är i Österbotten, så skulle vi ha economist i balans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u32	Madam President! Decent care and support are particularly important in the care of children, the elderly, disabled people and mental health rehabilitation. The background calculations of the government's social welfare reform indicate that these savings of 3 billion are being sought from the services of the elderly and disabled, children's and young people's psychiatry, and the biggest savings in the services of children and families are directed at care and institutional care, i.e. the most vulnerable groups of people. When these savings have been calculated, the impact assessments have not been taken into account in the sense that what consequences will it have, for example, when the services of children and young people and people with substance abuse problems, as well as those of mental health rehabilitation, largely shift to open-based services and increase their share and, for example, the desire that older people be able to stay at home for longer, but there is no increase in the share of home care and there is no increase in services at home in this background calculation. Similarly, the cost pressures of the reform of the Alcohol Act have not been taken into account in any way in these calculations. I would like to ask both the Prime Minister and the Minister in charge: Should these savings not now be sought elsewhere than for the most vulnerable people? Shouldn't these savings be brought here for Parliament's assessment? And, above all, as many opposition parties have said here, would it not be high time we started this social reform together, Mr Tillsammans?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u33	Let us move on to the one-minute speeches, and I would ask that we respect that deadline so that as many people as possible will then be able to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u34	Mr President! It is a good thing that, after an exceptionally long session and negotiations with the government, the government, and the coalition, announced that they would abandon these additional cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u35	Madam President! Currently, health services produced by municipalities and funded by tax resources are being transferred to companies on a very large scale. The services of the provinces will be enforced and multinational health giants will compete for customers. With this arrangement, you are already breaking up the integrated service packages created in many municipalities, especially in large cities. Could you tell us why, for example, the city of Helsinki with more than 600,000 inhabitants cannot be a service provider, but instead bee, health centre or Attendo in this same area are qualified as service providers? And now, in plain language, could you tell us how this integration will be properly implemented, as services are now being broken down into many companies operating under the market mechanism,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u36	Mr President! There have been many references here to the speech given by the President at the inauguration of the Parliament. Personally, I would like to remind you of the point where it was stated how important it is to combat inequality. Setting up a working group to stop inequality will not help if decisions are taken at the same time that directly increase inequality. And, unfortunately, this is what this government has done. Like many MPs, I traveled through schools in January, and was startled by the anxiety and uncertainty about the future that many Eastern Finns in high school, Amish and high school raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u37	Mr President! After many difficult and courageous decisions, things are starting to look better: the economy is growing, unemployment is falling, and now, as you said, Prime Minister, there is finally better news about the state economy. There were two pretty big things in that speech of yours. Indeed, last year, less than half of what was feared was taken out of government debt, and that is really important. Can you open this up a little bit? How did this turn out so well? And another thing: local government finances are also getting stronger, 450 million stronger local government finances than before. This means that municipalities have better opportunities to care for early childhood education, education, the school network, health services, the safety of older people. Mr President! Can these figures and these recent good news determine what this year looks like? Are we still going for the better?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u38	Mr President! You, Prime Minister, said in your speech that freedom of choice will allow every Finn to choose for himself in the future. I ask in all sincerity: how does the government intend to ensure that freedom of choice also takes place outside the growth centres? The exercise of freedom of choice requires a number of different service providers to ensure that it is genuine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u41	Madam President! Representative of the Greens Niinistö dared to claim that the present government has lost two years. That is what the Minister said, who was in the government during the last parliamentary term. Yes, this is an inconceivable smear from the Green side. Let's see where we really are: More and more Finnish unemployed people have found a job. Unemployment is decreasing, so there are fewer unemployed people. Consumers' confidence in their own and their own country's economy has strengthened, investments are increasing and the economy in Finland is growing. This is where we are. There's a lot of problems, of course. The social exclusion of young people is a huge problem. A new, recent report on inclusive social security will hopefully provide a solution to this, and the Coalition Party assumes that, if the basic income test continues, it will also have to be tested for inclusive social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u42	Mr President! The government’s main objective is therefore a 72% employment rate and 110,000 new jobs during this parliamentary term. There are very well-supported objectives. We wish you every success, Lycka till! But, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, do not dig yourselves into vain holes on this road. In fact, the government is also about to submit legislative proposals to Parliament, which say, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, that this law will reduce the number of jobs in certain sectors. There are at least two of these proposals: boat tax and motorcycle tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u48	Mr President! Central representative My corner said there's only one way downtown: forward. And, admittedly, there are certain things that are now moving forward, and the government deserves to be commended for the good results. But it is good to remember that when you go fast, there is also a danger that there will be no time to judge the consequences of hard progress. Finland’s central government debt does not become available when and even though alcohol consumption increases. Politics is about value choices. The value of alcohol policy is steep: the opposite is the value of industrial policy and public health. The new draft alcohol law jeopardises public health and the benefits of the whole social welfare reform. You can go forward like that famous granny in the snow, but not so hard that some of the people are exhausted on the way, stumbles and eventually freezes in the snow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u49	Honorable Speaker! Finland’s economy is on the rise. Investments in manufacturing are increasing, Finland’s competitiveness is improving rapidly thanks to our competitiveness agreement. Consumer confidence will be strengthened. In fact, the last time in 2010 was on the same level, the year 99. Last year there were 34,000 more jobs, the employment rate is rising all the time. And now that we are moving towards spending limits decisions, the decision on spending limits must continue to be favourable to employment and growth. In addition, regional development must be taken into account. We must invest in tourism to Finland. This will create jobs in the services sector for municipalities where there is a shortage of them. You can't just walk away from it. Finland will rise by doing it together, Tillsammans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u50	Let us take representatives of Kymäläinen, Karimäki and Arhinmäki, and then it is Minister Rehula's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u51	Mr President! We heard in this speech from the centre that the centre does not accept discrimination and, above all, it should be seen in action. For example, you took unemployment. Currently, 30% of the unemployed in Finland are young people under the age of 30, and that should be addressed. On a school visit, the young girl asked me: What's wrong with immigration, what's wrong with someone getting married and coming to work in Finland, moving to Finland? The same girl asked: ‘ What’s wrong with a child in distress — he told about pictures of children of the Syrian war, for example — and these other people are being helped to escape? Finland will be 100 years old this year, and I would like to,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u52	Mr President! What I would have liked from the government is structural reforms of working life. You haven't even had a vision of them. There were many ways in which the Group of the Greens could take action — including Mr Zyskowicz. A number of parties have also proposed reforms to the family leave models that bring people to work, and here, too, there is an idea that I hope will be taken forward quickly. Decisions should also have a strong future perspective on the future, especially the future of children and young people. I am concerned about the fact that exclusion goes beyond generations, poverty increases and continues over generations. Low incomes have been cut and young people have access to education. But the future perspective is also climate issues, and today’s steak is WWF’s meat guide, which has shown us that Finland has shortcomings in its own vegetable protein production for food and feed, among other things. My question is: what is the government planning for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u53	Madam President! The speech by Prime Minister Sipilä would have been proud even of the legendary Iraqi Minister for Information, who said two days before Baghdad took over that the United States would fall any day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u56	Here's to Prime Minister Sipilä for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u57	Mr President! As I said in my speech, there are specific reasons for this, but the fact is that, according to preliminary data, central government debt in relation to GDP does not increase at all. The cash register has decreased by 1.3 billion. There have been one-off incomes of about 700 million. Some revenue has moved to next year, which has reduced expenditure, but the state economy has also strengthened. This is always a whole thing, of course, but the fact is that the debt has only increased by EUR 2.5 billion last year. The deficit is not yet known, but my own assessment is that, on the basis of the information you have just presented, the deficit will also be lower than our budget. This reflects the strong development that has been reflected in employment. In December, unemployment was 7.9 per cent, while one year ago it was 9.2 per cent, and so on. This strong development will also be reflected in public finances. This is the message.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u58	Now, Minister Rehula, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u59	Madam President! You don't want to try to talk black into white, no matter what the reality is. Second of all, you don't want to try to talk white if it's white. Firstly, in the future there will be and will be public social and health care, publicly funded social and health care, social and health care under public authority. In situations where a service provider cannot, for one reason or another, become a service provider or withdraws from service production, it is written in the Act on the organisation of social welfare and health care: the public organiser is responsible for ensuring that the residents of that region have services. The organiser is responsible — a strong, public organiser. Second, Kainuu, Eksote: It is desirable and even permitted that these good practices be implemented across Finland. Congressman Henriksson, many municipalities are amazed. At the moment, the most surprised are the people in the habit who are concerned about their own social services. I understand that the municipalities and municipal decision-makers are amazed. I recommend going to South Karelia, North Karelia, Central Ostrobothnia to ask what has been done there so that the good practices that exist can move forward. For example, South Karelia is currently preparing for the world to which the government is taking the change in social welfare and health care. Thirdly, social and health care together: How many times must it be written into the law so that it is believed in this Chamber that there will be a person in the future who needs services and who will be provided with a service plan that does not consider whether a professional has received social care or health care training? This model, which the government is taking forward, contains a basic idea of social and health care integration. Fourthly, improving public services as one of the objectives: This is precisely about improving public services, but it is absolutely essential that this is not just about the system. Ladies and gentlemen, if this approach is system-oriented, everyone has agreed so far that people would be able to get to the doctor more quickly, that treatment lines would be shortened and that people would get the necessary rehabilitation at the right time in the right place without, for example, being pushed around by who pays for rehabilitation. The government assumes that people will receive the services they need, and that this is possible needs an integrated service model and that the strong public organiser will ensure that this integrated service model is implemented. There will inevitably be a jump in the production of public services as part of the fact that we will also have private and third sector service providers to produce basic services, for example. Fifth point, public euro: In order to be a service provider in a future model, we must be open to how the euro has been used. Secondly, this model, which is being taken forward, is not system-driven, but it is up to the person himself to decide the service provider, and at the basic level there at the social welfare centre or health centre — if the term is used — the person can vote with his feet and not go to a place where the threat you paint comes from the fact that the euro is marching to the ends of the world. You don't have to accept such services. The legislation and its basis are based on the fact that the service provider must disclose its own information publicly. There are a number of points in the law on public access, in this Act on the organisation of social and health care and in the Act on Freedom of Choice, which require transparency. Is the government going to tell us what's going on? You, ladies and gentlemen, will still have 900 pages to read this month: a whole that will lead to the creation of the basic poles in this country, the content of which is a matter for health and social care professionals. We are now creating a framework for people to be at the centre, and I believe that Finland is one of the last countries in Europe where such a course of action is taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u60	Then we will continue the debate and the other ministers will be able to speak a little later. Now it's up to the delegates.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u61	Madam President! I am very concerned about this reform of social welfare and health care. There were clear objectives, such as narrowing health inequalities. Today, a well-off, well-trained man living in a good neighborhood lives 12 years longer than a man with a low income and a low level of education. This is today's health difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u64	Madam President! If the Government wishes, it has a simple way of completing the social welfare reform: implement the records of your own government programme, both in terms of content and in terms of the order of implementation. It's time for the government to face up to the facts. The timetables for the reform are not keeping, the original objectives are not being fulfilled, and the discussion of the Constitutional Committee is likely to be the end of the proposal. If the government does not agree to implement its own government programme, then there is also one less bad option than the current line — here, therefore, compromise, catch up: implement the law on social and regional structures in the longer transition period. Give the provinces that right to tax. Remove this freedom of choice legislation from this process into its own separate legislation, which can be assessed at a later stage. And put in place parliamentary preparations so that this reform will also take place between the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u65	Madam President! This is where the theme of rehabilitation came up. It is a good thing that the government legalises the rehabilitation director of a vocational social qualification. This will, among other things, increase the number of older people receiving rehabilitation. Mr President! The Euthanasia initiative is indeed coming to this Parliament. It comes from the people because the people are concerned about the treatment they will receive in the future. Hospice should also be placed at the centre of the war. I have taken an initiative to propose that the work on hospice care legislation should be initiated and examined as to whether such legislation on hospice care should be necessary. I am not talking about euthanasia, I am talking about ensuring equal services throughout Finland, more hospice facilities, and other things that come into play. I would like to ask the Minister: how does this sound? The criteria for hospice treatment are being updated. That is a very good thing, but action needs to be taken, and I believe that with this euthanasia initiative too, hospice care is at the heart of it, and we are targeting all our resources to improve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u66	Mr President! There is a real need for social reform, and the regional base is a good way forward. Unfortunately, the original integration objectives, the improvement of service chains and the reduction of health inequalities have been forgotten. Or how does integration take place in a government model when the jungle of private and public companies is created? In many places, such as Kainuu, the integration models that have already been created have to be broken up in companies, a subscriber-producer bureaucracy, contract control and service management has to be created, and tax money is being poured into tax havens. According to experts, this government's social welfare model is going to cost taxpayers a lot of money. Mr President! There is now a real need for vocational education and training, a great concern about the quality of education, access and exclusion of young people. If the state economy has developed better than anticipated, could the mid-term review still consider cancelling these major cuts in vocational education and training?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u67	Mr President! Large health differences in Finland are strongly due, among other things, to the lack of access to basic services — unemployed people, pensioners, families with children have to wait for health centres and many basic social services. That is why the government is reforming social welfare and health care so that all people, regardless of the contents of the bag, will be able to access basic health care services in good time. I wonder very much how irresponsible and cold a policy the opposition has. You want to bring down this reform, which would bring good basic services to ordinary Finns, to each of us in good time. You have no concrete proposal on how you would strengthen basic services, none of which has been heard. You deplore the fact that the private sector and organisations can also provide services. What's wrong with that? Public authorities are responding. At the same time, you yourself use occupational health care and use private services. Why should unemployed people, families with children and pensioners not also be part of this Finnish welfare society in which organisations, businesses
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u68	Madam President! The Social Democrats want a social welfare reform. We have been involved in parliamentary cooperation during the previous government and we really hoped that this work would have been continued on the basis of its thinking. I'm going to ask the government: Why can this system not be taken forward simply? In other words, creating large social areas where services are organised, produced and financed mainly in the same hands, using private and non-governmental organisations as complementary services and developing options for freedom of choice after and after these experiments as a practice of allowing people to receive treatment more quickly, getting a doctor, getting a diagnosis, and using private ones to apply for a consultation service at a private station, can also be described and investigated by private individuals — but this Nordic welfare society is considered to be largely public. To be supplemented by private and organisations:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u71	Mr President! It has already been rightly stated here in many speeches that we are on the right track in terms of economic development and employment development. This development now needs to be strengthened and continued and the confidence in the Finnish economy and the ability to work and try in Finland is preserved, because that trust is an extremely important issue. We have had to make painful savings decisions, and the Prime Minister has appointed Professor Saare's working group to find out how justice has been achieved. This is an important issue and should be completed early next year. Mr President! I appeal to the spending limits panel on one issue, and that is food supply in Finland. There we need solutions to improve the rules of fair trade in the food chain. There are already 20 current EU Member States with national legislation that has introduced fair trade rules into the food chain, and that is what is needed now in Finland. Make decisions in April, ladies and gentlemen, that the position of the Finnish producer should be improved. For us, the producer is in a very difficult situation, suffering for many years from falling income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u72	Madam President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his report and his words on the economic situation in Åland. The employment rate in Åland is 82 per cent. We want to be involved in bringing Finland up. The Ålanders pay their taxes to the Finnish State just like everyone else. Åland receives 0.45 per cent of all tax revenue from the state from these taxes. This compensatory percentage has not been revised since the system entered into force more than 20 years ago. Åland is a good taxpayer as employment is good and unemployment is less than 4%. Åland paid 0.71 per cent of all direct taxes on the state last year. Despite a rapidly growing population and a good employment rate, Åland continues to receive the same lump sum of 0.45%. This leads to a government deficit in Åland, although the employment situation is very good. This is a huge problem for Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u73	Madam President! In the paper, an expert on the shadow economy said: "The fight against the grey economy is frozen, even though the investigation brings revenue to the state. This doesn't make any sense. The present government seems to be the first government in 20 years that does not see the need for a control programme." I listened carefully to what the Prime Minister and the representatives of the government parties said. There was no mention of the fight against the shadow economy, of the programme that is now going to take place for the next two years. Could you tell us, Minister of Finance, what new measures will be taken to eradicate the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u74	Mr President! The fair criticism of the opposition is always welcome, but any excessive gloominess, on the other hand, will at most result in investors disappearing and the public becoming cautious. It is really important to strengthen the climate of confidence and to believe in the future that this too can be done together. One successful piece of work by this government has been a competitiveness agreement. Firstly, it increased confidence that we will survive together and that we will be able to negotiate and agree on matters together. In addition, for example, the VM estimates its impact to be tens of thousands of jobs. Now that we are entering the spending limits debate, unemployment security should be reformed in such a way that people dare to be active without fear of losing job opportunities or unemployment security. I would like to ask Minister Lindström: at what point is there a so-called combined insurance policy that would allow an entrepreneur to become involved in earnings? And so much to thank the demars so much that this proposal to involve young people more strongly must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u75	Mr President! There is a broad consensus on this reform of social welfare and health care that it should be done, but unfortunately that is where the agreement ends, because this government is now going through it in a way that was still marginal in Finland a few years ago, and which has been the subject of great concern from social welfare and health care experts and economics experts. The big problem is that you are making all our national social and health care assets and public office holders guinea pigs to see if such a large-scale and fast-paced marketization can work. And that is why you should listen carefully to what Mrs Aalto said: if this were to be done step by step so as to ensure that, first of all, the regions have the conditions, the capacity and the power to be strong organisers and ensure quality and control, then gradually, by region, starting with basic services, there will be freedom of choice and then there will be a test of how to do it so that price competition can be created so that the costs do not increase but
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u76	Mr President! On Monday, I attended a meeting of the Pirkanmaa Social Services Steering Group, and now that the practice of organising administration is being approached in different areas, I am even more convinced that the government's model of social and health care reform is a major mistake. The administration of social welfare and health care in the regions is becoming a very complex entity and its management will be an impossible task. The whole reform is being carried out in a completely inhospitable way: businesses and business interests ahead, people and their service needs forgetting. The government model will lead to a situation where costs increase, private social welfare centres will peel cream off and the reform objectives will not be met. Common tax assets are shoveled into the treasury of private health companies. Does this make sense? No, it's not. It is not too late, Mr Government, to reverse the biggest mistake in the history of the welfare state that you are now making. Cancel this social security reform. Involve the opposition in the preparation of the parliamentary war that we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u77	Madam President! Indeed, three things are important for the Finnish economy: employment rate, employment rate, employment rate. It is great that the Government's strategic programme is aimed at this, but Finland does not get out of the hair by pulling itself out of the hair, but we need the competitiveness that the competitiveness pact has brought. By the way, it attracts international attention. When we visited the Central Bank of South Africa, the first thing that was asked was: how to conclude a competitiveness pact? So it's important. In fact, the only greater risk in the economy seems to be that the opposition does not seem to have any concept for this economy. "No way" is a concept which, in this situation, only fails.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u78	Mr President! Here Mr Arhinmäki recently raised the issue of the state treasury, and I also did a little research into how the state treasury has evolved over the years. At the time when Mr Arhinmäki started as Minister in 2011, there were EUR 10.3 billion in funds in the treasury, and when he ended in 2014, there were only EUR 3.1 billion left in the treasury. 7.2 billion had disappeared, or should I say in this context that the state treasury had fallen to this level. And at the same time,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u79	Madam President! It's not the size of the cashier, it's the direction of the economy, but it's the direction of the economy. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u80	Madam President! I believe that the direction of the economy has changed. I see it in civilian work: Finnish business has been refreshed since last spring. However, I am concerned about why. The currency used by Finland, the currency of the euro countries, in relation to the American dollar, has changed substantially. At its worst, the dollar cost EUR 1.6, and today will probably be sold EUR 1.05, at about that level. In what currency has the debts of the Finnish state been taken into account at the time, is an essential question as to what has happened here in the end. But the US dollar has grown stronger, has been as strong as 0.85 and in ten years 1.6. What happens to the US dollar affects the competitiveness of the euro area as a whole. It is not necessarily because of our own activities that this economic upturn has arisen. The second thing that concerns the people of New Zealand and those living in southern Finland is how democracy is being achieved in the social areas. If the regional elections are held at the same time as the municipal elections, I bet the council
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u81	Before Minister Orpoa representatives Tuppurainen, Biaudet and Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u82	Mr President! The government has managed to get its message through that there has been a positive turn in the economy. Research institutes support it, and Finland is certainly getting involved in this emerging growth in the euro area, and that is a good thing. But now the question is whether everything is being carried along. It is, in fact, a very crucial issue, which is a critical time for solidarity, solidarity. When things are bad for everyone when things are bad for the economy, it may be that people realize that we have to cut, now we have to save, but when growth starts, it is really the crucial question whether everyone is involved, whether people feel that decisions are fair and that they are involved in the growth that is about to start. This is a very important lesson for you, the good government, to the forthcoming spending limits debate, and I admit that I am concerned because you have postponed this spending limits debate after the municipal elections. It tells us something, and I hope it does not tell us that decisions will be difficult for ordinary people on low incomes in Finland. I hope you'll take it from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u83	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, we are talking about an increase in the employment rate, but are you aware that only 34,000 new jobs have gone to women? In Finland, the employment rate of women is significantly lower than in other Nordic countries and has not developed in the same way
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u84	Madam President! It is, of course, a wonderful coincidence that all the numbers in the economy are looking up at the moment, and that should be welcomed by the whole of Parliament. The result would be even better if the government had not made so many cuts that actually cost more. I believe that this evaluation should be carried out within the government in order to make these figures more real. There is one point I would like to raise and I would like Minister Risiko to answer: the clarification of the fund-raising law. The reform of the fund-raising law last season was not completed, and this has now led to the situation that the Police Government has taken over, as it were, and sent letters to the congregations to break this hundred - year tradition that the congregations collect collections. Now the Police Government claims that this collection of collections as part of the service would be covered by the fund-raising law. This interpretation is a very wild interpretation from the Police Government. I wish,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u85	Now it's Minister Orpo's turn, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Government Programme has two objectives to which we have committed ourselves: the employment rate of around 72% and the balancing of public finances. These are absolutely essential objectives for the future, but also for this country to be equal and for the future to be prosperous, because only and only through a high level of employment will this be possible. If we achieve those magical 3% increase to the employment rate of 72%, which is still 3% lower than the Swedish employment rate today, then our situation is excellent. It would be the best gift for 100-year-old Finland if we could get here and catch up with this career. That means about 90,000 people more at work than today. That means about 90,000 people less in the misery and invisibility of unemployment than today. That means more tax revenue for the government. This means that we can afford to take care of the services. It ensures that we do not need to adapt, but we can think about how we are developing a welfare society. This is absolutely essential. Together we have found that we are not yet on that path. We are in the right direction, as the Prime Minister described here, and the economy is growing. That is an excellent thing. The economy is growing, employment has improved, but we need to do more. Together, we are committed to taking sufficient measures so that we are no longer in a situation where we have been in previous governments, that we have had to constantly adjust, adjust, adapt, because that road does not lead forward. We will do everything we can to improve employment and boost economic growth. In this way we can ensure equality of opportunity in Finland, which is the great foundation of our welfare society. [Heckling] We need reforms, and this government has done them and is doing them. We're doing a social reform. We are reforming the education system at every level. The traffic cycle, the exploitation of digitalisation. Labour services are currently being reformed, new ways are being introduced. We have introduced tax reforms that promote employment and entrepreneurship and growth. We have freed up shop opening hours and thus created a few thousand new jobs. We have reformed labour law, making hiring people more encouraging. And we will continue along this path of reform, because without reform we will not succeed, and those politicians who oppose reform will destroy the future. That is why we need to reform, no matter how difficult it is and how much the opposition is going to bludgeon. That brings me to the point, Mr Niinistö, when you continue on this populist line of prosecution with regard to these training cuts. I would like to say this once again: EUR 2 billion of municipal government shares, among other things, in the last period. Day care centres, schools, school meals, comprehensive schools, high schools. This is the source of it when the central government shares of municipalities are taken. This government has strengthened the local government economy, last year by 450 million, and we are laying the foundations that municipalities can successfully continue to carry out their educational tasks. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u89	Before returning to the debate, I will give Mr Lindström the floor. But, ladies and gentlemen, I say that this debate will be followed up in numerous homes, and the more noise there is, the more difficult it will be for us to follow this debate and the more difficult it will be for others to follow this debate. I ask for patience and tranquillity. — Minister Lindström, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u90	Madam President! Many times this government's main demand has been mentioned here, raising the employment rate to 72%, and this has, of course, been encouraged and criticised. Unfortunately, I was replaced by this statement by Mr Niinistö that the government has lost two years. It is incomprehensible that a government that has lost two years has made such courageous decisions. We really haven't lost anything. I have a short political history and a short political memory, but please tell me another government which has so courageously gone on to undertake structural reforms, including the labour market — of course, in conjunction with the social partners, insofar as this is the case. I fully agree that reforms must be made, that is true. But once again, it breaks my ear when people are told that we squat. We do respond to the fact that it is not our intention to squat at all, but to help people. That's the government's goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u93	Okay, let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u94	Mr President! Once again, it is indeed a good thing that Mr Orpo, the Finance Minister of the Coalition Party, has now given up flashing these additional cuts. It is good that the government held this sitting. But the fact is, the facts have now been used somewhat selectively, that three independent bodies — the Ministry of Finance, the National Audit Office, the Economic Policy Review Council — have said that these figures, these current forecasts, do not achieve their own employment and deficit targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u97	Mr President! Minister Ruhula has rightly said that it is not worth explaining the black as white, and in this respect this debate has been quite enlightening. We have heard that this reduced demand for debt is due to the use of state reserves and we have also heard that long-term unemployment has increased compared to last year. But when the Minister of Finance, Orpo, said that the government will not cut in the context of the social welfare reform, I think it would be appropriate to clarify what is at stake here too. When the average increase in social security expenditure in the 21st century has been around 2.9 % to 3.5 %, and if the government weighs less than this level of funding for the provinces at the same time as moving to a new system which, according to all experts, raises costs, where do the provinces apply for this difference? There is no alternative but to reduce the public service network or to raise the highest customer fees in the Nordic countries already. In other words, I hope that the government will speak directly and clearly in this respect too, so that the public understands what this is really about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u99	Madam Speaker! After many years of decline, the economic outlook is very bright. It must also be acknowledged that there are some threats that may affect the economy beyond Finland’s borders. In addition to the car industry, the Äänekoski pulp mill and shipping orders, we need to get more projects of this kind, and this requires that our public finances and Finland's competitiveness are such that the export industry receives these new orders. That is why the government must be acknowledged that many of the unfortunate things that have been attempted to achieve a balance in public finances have now made it possible for Finns to accept the view that the future is looking brighter. And we here must continue to build these steps from now on, so that then we can carry out those other things when we get the welfare that can be built into the treasury of the state. So I ask the Prime Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u100	Madam President! The government has done an excellent job. The great news today is that there will be no further surgeries. They have been made and are now reflected in this economic development for central government and the national economy as a whole. Minister Lindström must be commended very much for having courageously but constructively reformed the world of work, moved forward — and continue along that path, you will have the full support. Under the leadership of Minister Rehula and others, the reform of social security has been taken forward, pension reform is already in place and so on, and these major reforms are needed. It is amazing that it is still the left-wing opposition that the whole process of social reform must be torn apart and re-started. That's irresponsible talk. Yes, this base, which is a democratic model, is the model that can be implemented and which will achieve the best result. The more humane model of social democrats, which I was familiar with recently, is unconstitutional. There is a regional model which has already been stated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it is not possible — the municipalities as payers but not as decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u101	Madam President! Minister Rehula, you said earlier that good practice, which has been proven to be effective, should continue, and you referred to Eksote in South Karelia, thank you for that. In South Karelia, social and health services and special care have been brought together in a single entity, and this has made it possible to develop integration and the content of the services strongly. This has also enabled us to make use of private service providers and thus to extend the freedom of choice to customers. Now the problem is that when the government implements this model of its own, these good service practices of Exote are broken down into small companies, which means that this integration will no longer be carried out in a similar way, because the services will be broken down. And now our great concern is that the good development that has been made in Eksote in South Karelia will no longer improve the quality of services in the future. I would now like to ask Minister Rehula whether this is the case, as has been argued in various directions, but the legislators interpret differently whether Exote should be cut into sections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u102	Madam President! It is clear that work and raising employment rates are still the top priority, and when we talk about this inequality, work is also the way to reduce this inequality and actually the best way to do so, because the biggest inequality gap is precisely between the unemployed and the working population. As Mr Jokinen said here, there is a special situation in the labour market where the unemployed and jobs are not all at the moment, and this is certainly not the fault of the unemployed, but the fault of the system, and in this respect the system needs to be corrected. Incentive traps must be dismantled and action taken otherwise. Family leave should be reformed, and it would also be desirable for labour market organisations to keep their promises for the implementation of the so-called Finnish model, based on the ability of export industries to pay wages. This change, as we have heard in many speeches today, is the sum of many measures combined. I would like to ask Mr Rinte once again that the option of the SDP would take less debt: how so?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u103	Mr President! It is true that raising employment is the most important thing. I'm sure we can all agree on that. Here the Prime Minister also referred to Sweden and said that it should not be impossible for us to get better figures either. I agree with that, but some things have been done in Sweden. There is no needs test, it has been removed, i.e. a foreign labour force can be employed when the entrepreneur considers it necessary. There is also local reconciliation at a completely different level than in Finland and there is a completely different type of family leave model, which has more flexibility and is also more equal. Elikka, Prime Minister, including these measures and these reforms, could do better, and now it is a question of whether the government wants to reform in this area as well. Then I would like to ask the following question: now that the euro has deteriorated in relation to the dollar, what is the government's assessment of how much of this budding economic growth is now due to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u104	Madam President! It is true that the option of the SDP to take less debt than the government would take, and that is because for a few years now we have been taking action on what employment would have started to grow, we have made a number of concrete proposals, and we would indeed be doing otherwise in tax policy. We would not favour good-for-nothing tax reductions, tax reductions that do not even bring jobs, but tax reductions for low- and medium-income wage earners and pensioners, thereby improving purchasing power. But, President, the good news today is that further cuts have now been abandoned. Of course, I am terribly pleased that, in this respect, reason prevailed in the assembly, and now, then, Prime Minister, with these additional pruning dreams. According to Sipilä’s pacestick, it has been abandoned, and it is positive and good. When there were some praises coming from downtown for this SDP's Summer Job initiative, for all young people, it would be nice to hear from you, Prime Minister, now that you think that this good proposal from the SDP will be put to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u105	Mr President! In addition to this debate on social and economic affairs, I would like to say that last summer's thought was left in mind of the way we 'bring to your parties grief and blood'. This message of terrorists in Europe is serious. We know that peace is being threatened and that our values in Western Europe are being challenged. We are in a situation where we are not threatened by an immediate war, but when it is used, it is threatened and it is acted upon in a situation where there should be a completely different tone. We don't need any trade wars here. We don't need any more walls here. We need more cooperation and understanding and an effort here, in a way that the Prime Minister, in his own speech, referred very thoroughly to me — in a situation where Europe should be a strong, clear leader in world politics. That is why I quote some others by saying: Make Europe great again!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u106	Madam President! When Finland turns 100 this year, it is really good that the economy has started to rise in honour of it and that the government's actions will bite. I am surprised by the opposition's statements and statements on this issue, now that we are digging up all the possible monsters and ghosts from underground, that this is not true. I am very surprised that you too should not have this kind of positive mood when eight years have passed through the swamp of the recession and now there is a clear shift in the direction of the economy. After all, you should have a little bit of us in mind right now to get this Finland on the rise for real. This isn't by accident what's been done. It is the result of a determined policy. As regards, for example, this employment of young people, my municipality of residence has been doing this for a long time. Young people have been taken to work, and the municipality has put money into it. Representative Hautala here has just testified that the same thing has been done by his municipality of residence, Kauhajoki. The Finnish Entrepreneurs launched this campaign as well. It's all right to give thanks to the people it belongs to. I understand that you may be a little bitter, but you would have had many opportunities before today to do otherwise. It's no use crying afterwards when nothing's helped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u107	Mr President! The Prime Minister made a nice speech early in his speech. He praised Åland and the Ostrobothnia, and quite rightly so. I know both provinces well, and they are linked by doing it together and the spirit of keeping everyone involved. Prime Minister, you have said in recent days that we must now think out of the box, and you have also said that you will accept all the good ideas for improving employment. We have a concrete, good proposal: we propose that we all together – the state, municipalities, businesses and organisations – do everything we can to offer as many young people as possible a summer job this summer. After all the training and student support cuts, it would be an important signal to young people in a 100-year-old Finland that there is a future, there is hope. Prime Minister Sipilä, are you prepared to take up this constructive proposal to give as many young Finns as possible a summer job and thus a positive prospect of hope?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u108	Then let's take Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u109	Mr President! Four things: First of all, to this slight decline in long-term unemployment: for I am referring to the fact that it has been constantly rising, and we are carefully following this figure all the time because it is one of our greatest concerns, and from that peak in August we have now come down to 6,000. Of course, we are still on the increase compared to one year ago, and that is still a serious concern. This was right there behind my own message. Inequality, inequality: There is a common concern that everyone should be involved. This is a long-term development. The improvement in employment will help this through two ways. Firstly, that work itself will help the situation of every unemployed person who gets a job, and of course it will also improve the ability of public finances and the public sector to take care of everyone. But putting Finland in good shape is not just putting the economy in order. Finland will not be okay until every Finn is involved, and we need new ways to do this. This is why the Juho Saare task force is working, and this is one of the most important tasks of the latter half of the government: to ensure that all Finns get involved. Well, then on the Summer Job issue: The government has appealed to the ministers in hundreds of situations for companies and communities: Give a gift to 100-year-old Finland — investing in Finland, employment in Finland. Do we agree that the list will leave here and be added to the list that you should employ a young person for summer work? Give a gift to 100-year-old Finland — investing in Finland, employment in Finland, employment for young people in summer jobs. If that's all right, let's put this as a joint appeal from all the parliamentary parties. [Department: Fine! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u110	And Minister Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u111	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Kanerva for bringing the foreign, security and defence policy position into this debate. I mean, nothing's okay if we're not safe. If we do not have a sensible foreign, security and defence policy, then we will have everything else in hand. And from this one may conclude that the government's foreign, security and defence policy has been well-managed. Then there have been discussions about world changes: They affect us — Brexit affects, election results affect us. What can we influence? We will be able to influence our own policy first, to form it, and then we will take it to the European Union as well as to the USA, we will take our own line, our own option as a sign. We do not need doctors or judges on these matters; we need a responsible policy. We need to be active, we need to be involved. For example, the United States is our third largest trading partner. Transatlantic relations are important. The importance of the USA for European security is vital. Cooperation between the USA and Finland is very important for our defence — independent defence. In the European Union, Brexit is now the decision of the British people. Now we have to conclude a good agreement, as good as possible between Britain and the EU — not a revenge mentality, not a bad will, but an agreement that will enable us in Europe to manage and manage Britain, and with minimal damage. And when we get the United States connected, we will have a really big area, a free trade area, hopefully, where we will get work, where our products will have access to the market, where our influence will be protected. This is, to a large extent, the case. Similarly, we must be active in Syria and Ukraine. We can't accept killing, murder. We can't stand by and watch it. That is why we are involved in training the Peshmerga forces in Iraq. That is why we are involved in Afghanistan so that extremism and extremism do not prevail there. That is why we in the EU have concluded an agreement with Turkey so that we do not become the target of a rescaling of 3 million refugees, but that they will be helped there. This is a sensible policy, and it creates the framework that we can develop education, care for the elderly, do all these necessary things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u112	Minister Orphan, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u113	Madam President! Once again, we have jointly stated the fact that the current measures, even though they are in the right direction and have been effective, are not yet sufficient for the economic and employment development that we ourselves have set ourselves. So we must do more, and we will do everything we can. We are carefully preparing for further efforts towards employment and economic growth in the mid-term, and this is important because this economic growth, which has now been achieved in the balance of public finances, is not enough in itself and, yet again, it is the basis for our well-being. Let me take an example: if our interest rates on sovereign debt were to rise by one percentage point, that would mean an increase in interest expenditure of EUR 1 billion. Think about the challenge of taking that billion out of something. I don't want to see it. That is why we must all work hard to balance public finances, and the best way to do that is to improve employment. We also have other reasons why this public finances must be balanced and in a reasonably short term, as the government has set itself as an objective. In the next decade, which is already just around the corner, we will face the challenges of ageing. This will be the subject of social reform, but there will be major challenges in any case. And, among other things, in this subject raised by Mr Kanerva and also by the Foreign Minister, we will also have large defence procurements in the next decade: the replacement of the Hornets and the purchase of naval vessels. This is an effort of about 10 billion. You have to do it when you can't do it. We must take care of our defence and its basic elements, and that is why we must be able to prepare for these too. I am very pleased that there is a good parliamentary debate on this issue and that we are looking for common solutions, because these are solutions that go beyond the term of government in which we need to find a common vision. Mr President! I would just like to summarise in the spirit of this Olavi Ala-Nissilä, three key words: employment, employment, employment. All the measures that the government is doing from this day to the last day before the elections must be aimed at improving employment, because that is the only way we can safeguard the well-being of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u114	Then let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u115	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Soin, for your good analytical speech on foreign and security policy. At the same time, I would like to say with satisfaction to Minister Orpo, who seems to have to leave, that it seems that the cuts will not be in place in the future. I hope that you will also include those employment measures from our option. There is a lot of activity in the alternative budget for 2016 and 2017 to support entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises, where there is business policy reform, there is Arctic rail network and data cable network. Take note of them and thus strengthen employment. But I would particularly like to thank the Prime Minister for taking up this initiative of ours on this summer job for young people. It is an important issue, because it is where people start to get to work, to get to work in the summer, and it provides the basis for people to be able to find employment in the labour market in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u116	Madam President! It is good that these facts have now been examined, the fact that the State Treasury has made independent decisions since 2011. When I was a minister, the State Treasury made those decisions independently, and now it is still independent. It was not only then that there was praise for the reduction in central government debt by the decisions of the Treasury, but now the reduction in government debt was praised here. The second point is that, Prime Minister Sipilä, unemployment figures cannot be regarded as what has happened since August to this day, but are always seen as compared to the previous year on a monthly basis due to the fact that general unemployment varies from month to month. If you look in all these months, it has risen in comparison to last year. So this is worth taking into account. But lastly to Minister Orpo — who already left: Last autumn we asked about the impact of kiky on public finances. At the time, the government did not want to give an assessment of them; now it has come from the Evaluation Council and their effects are negative. Unfortunately, we were right about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u117	Mr President! I think the real news today was that the Prime Minister said that this positive economic development is now also beginning to appear in public finances, and this does encourage the government to continue along the same path. That does not mean that there is now an opportunity to loosen or drop gloves, but just as the government does, to reform Finland. We cannot now make unwarranted promises to the public that there will be some new free services. I think that this idea, which has been raised, is an excellent summer job for all young people, and it is good that it is supported together. However, it cannot mean that the job for a young person is created as on a tray, but that young people also need positive experience in looking for work and, of course, in working life, and we already have tools to do this. Mr President! I hope that, with these beginnings of parliament, we will be able to do a little more together. There are different opinions, solutions, values in politics, but they can be presented differently, and we have a common goal, a common fatherland that we are building.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u118	Mr President! Minister Orpo felt that the fight against cuts in education was populism. Let us remember what Minister Orpo and also Minister Sipilä promised before the elections: they had signs in hand to say to people that there will be no cuts in education. This was the vision of Minister Orpo one month before the elections. He then announced that after the elections the economic situation became known and was forced to operate. My question now is: does Minister Orpo again think before the municipal elections that we should not operate, but in the spending limits debate two weeks from then there will be another assessment of the economic situation? That is why clear answers are required for you, because history is this. I would like to stress that the others were serious. The Greens were serious about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u119	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u120	Madam President! If this were a question of value choice, then the euro would not be cut off from education and education. But what was the state of public finances when the government began: it was merciless. And it's still, we're still in debt. Mr Niinistö, as has been said, you were in the last government cutting out education in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u121	Mr President! There is a good employment situation as a basis for well-being. The employment target of 72% is not impossible, as the Prime Minister said. There are encouraging messages from all over Finland about how new jobs are created, and this means that it is also important to encourage our people with positive news. The condition and functionality of roads and ports are also closely linked to the management of employment. In Varsinais-Suomi, among other things, Turku Shipyard and Uki Automotive Factory are in a booming process, and the prerequisite for this will continue to be the operating conditions of Turku and Ukki Ports and the improvement of Kasittie. So I would ask Minister Berner: are you in the same line? And to the Social Democrats: you said that small businesses have not been remembered by this government or done much about them. Among other things, payment-based VAT has become very good feedback from these very small companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u122	Mr President! Very big words have been used here, and those words are in order because the world situation has really, really changed. In 2017, we will be in a new world where, on the one hand, there are growing threats both from across the Atlantic and from here in Europe. Old ideas — nationalism, even fascism — lift their heads, and the winds of protectionism blow away in the economy. That kind of world is a very vulnerable world for a country like Finland, and it now requires us to take an active stance, above all where we can influence, and that is the European Union. Even a small country can be bigger than its size. We all remember about 40 years ago: Finland gathered the countries in Helsinki at the OSCE meeting, where a new world was built on the basis of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. Now I would like to hear whether the other government has an internationalist, international approach as strong as Mr Soin's just now in your excellent speech, because that would be necessary now. Finland must be strong on these international issues. In the European Union, it must be an active player. I thank Foreign Minister Soini for your grip,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u123	Mr President! Reetta Räty writes in her column on Yle that the crisis is being stirred up in a country that is at the forefront of many sectors in international comparisons, and she tells us to be proud sometimes of Finland. I agree very much with him. It has now been pointed out many times here that, in many very important areas, this government has reached a real career in its early term — employment, export development, the economy, GDP growth, investment, and also the news that people are not being expelled every week. It is very good to continue with this. But I also stress the long-term unemployment, which is a very difficult and painful problem, and the still strong, good new ways of dealing with youth unemployment, and I think that many young people need perfectly tailored models to get to their own lives and learn the path and society. I encourage the government to find new ways to deal with these painful employment issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u124	Mr President! It is excellent that there has been a turning point in the economy. But Finland is not yet out of this particular challenging moment, because this economic growth is not enough in relation to that fold of debt, so we need more action, and that is precisely where employment is concerned. Perhaps this question should be addressed to Minister Lindström: there are many incentive traps and, for example, will there be any focus on this management of over-indebtedness? Perhaps we could talk about a positive credit register or changing enforcement practices to make it worthwhile for these hundreds of thousands of Finns as well. Have these been discussed in relation to, for example, the future spending limits debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u125	Mr President! It has already been said here on many occasions that this government has had to make proposals for savings and structural reforms, but also for employment, and it is evidence that unemployment rates have gone up and so has the local economy. We know that only employment and companies will make this economy better. It is in the interests of the whole country, as long as this export industry is still being pushed a little further. But at the heart of all decision-making, we must always remember that person. Every Finn from baby to old age has a decent life, and that should be remembered in this matter of socialism. I hope that this service train will go to its destination. Last season, it didn't work out. I would also like to say that we have a terriblely good, stable and secure Finland. We should continue to build all this with respect for one another and also, as I often say to children, to bless one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u126	Mr President! Minister Orpo questioned Mr Essayah's criticism of the cuts and replied that the government would not. The KD parliamentary group is pursuing a constructive opposition policy, but on the other hand it also means that we have both the right and the duty to question what the government is doing when we disagree. I quote myself in the December budget debate: 'It is thoughtless that the government will cut more than EUR 50 million more from technical research, and now there is also vocational training, to which the cuts of EUR 190 million next year have been timelessly cut.' I ask Minister Orpo: was my December argument wrong or correct?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u127	Mr President! We have heard here today, by the representatives of the government, what good things have happened during this reign, but surprisingly little has been said about the increase in poverty and inequality. The bread queues have grown longer and there are increasing numbers of low income families with children and poor pensioners. If the government were to ask a pensioner on the bread line about the situation in Finland, the picture would be very different. Poverty among pensioners is a real and growing problem, and I think that 100-year-old Finland should be able to solve this issue. Mr President! According to experts, integration, integrated care chains and the dismantling of red tape are not going to happen with the government's social model, even though the government itself seems to have a lot of faith in it. In addition to parliamentary preparation, better consultation of experts would have made it possible for the government's proposal to create a much better social model. Not many experts can be found in this kingdom who would support this model of government and see that it would.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u128	Then there are the short speeches, the ministers Risikko and Vehviläinen. Ribbon, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u129	Madam President! They asked about this fund-raiser law. After all, we have now had a fund-raising law to deal with — just as the representative said there, so it was in the last period — and now we have still had the hearings, and now we are slowly beginning to see what needs to be done about it. You referred to the current situation and you mentioned the shortcomings, and these things, which you have raised, will then be taken into account in the future decision, but it is now necessary to state that we cannot influence the independent decision-making body of the ministry, the Police Government, in the way they take that decision there. But, of course, for example, your speech will certainly be passed on to them, and all the messages you have told us many times have been passed on to the Police Government. So they know the problem you have presented, but, as I said, the ministry is not in a position to influence the independent decision-maker in any way, and they will then make a decision on it. All in all, good speeches have been made here all day and it is great that we have a House that understands the situation and that we also have a Parliament that is aware of the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u130	Minister Vehviläinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u131	Mr President! Today, Statistics Finland presented views on last year's local government finances, and as has already been mentioned here, the local government finances have become stronger. It is a pleasure to report that last year's local government finances were in surplus of more than EUR 800 million, the increase in indebtedness has stalled, the cost increased very little in municipalities. We know that at the moment there is no crisis, and even in indebtedness there is indeed a break in growth. Then we have not made cuts in the central government's share of municipalities, which has helped for its part. But it must be said that municipal decision-makers have acted responsibly in municipalities and have carried out adjustment programmes. That must be one of the big reasons why the local government finances are doing well now. We can all influence the common vision of this summer job in the communities and municipalities where we work, so that young people are also taken to summer jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u132	We are running out of time for the debate, but we still have a few more speeches to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u133	Mr President! Of course, it is important for the government to proceed with great determination and to stick to this 72% employment target, among other things, and to seek only new means of achieving this objective. It is important that these reforms move forward with determination and, among other things, with determination in the reform of social and health care. Of course, constructive evaluation should be listened to. It is also important that the government strives for justice in its decision-making, and that justice also includes care for the whole country. It is therefore very valuable that the government, among other things, has strengthened local government finances, does not carry out state-owned cuts, infrastructure projects have been targeted across the country, bio-energy has been heavily invested in new investments, financial and tax solutions have encouraged business activity throughout the country, and it is very valuable that the reform of regional and social welfare and health care gives development power to the regions and regions themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u134	Mr President! In this debate, freedom of choice has emerged mainly as a threat, but could it be thought that freedom of choice can also be considered as a part of the patient's autonomy and as a follow-up to it? It is worth remembering that we are talking about freedom of choice for the patient and the customer, not freedom of choice for the service provider. Then there is another aspect of social protection that has been ignored in the debate: I meet a lot of social and health professionals and I have discussions with them about this future change, and they have been working for years in a certain degree of uncertainty, and now the message from there is quite clear that if something should finally happen, do something. In other words, once again quoting the President of the Republic: we cannot fail to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u135	Mr President! It occurred to me when we talked about savings and a lot of figures have been going through here today and the Prime Minister told us about these 4 billion cuts that it is now good for us to remember what it costs us to deal with unemployment a year. That's 6 billion. If we get a 1% fall in unemployment, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, we will save 800 million. It is extremely important that we deal with unemployment. As I recall, the Group of the Christian Democrats called for a humane approach. What could really be more important than trying to get everyone a job and those who are able to do the jobs are able to pay taxes so that we can take care of those who have to rely on subsidies. These are huge figures when you try to compare them. It's good to remember what it costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u136	Before the Prime Minister, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u137	Madam President! Minister Orpo here many times spoke about how the previous government cut off education. That's right. I remember well when I was the chairman at the time, how every party said that 'the last period was too much cut off from education, we make a promise: there will be no more cuts from education'. But what happened? The point is that none of these cuts in the last period, which everyone considered too large, have been cancelled, and now, contrary to the promise of education, the government has cut a huge amount more on these old cuts. The question is that the education promise became an educational fraud, and this is not going to change with what Minister Orpo has said. Unfortunately, this will only change if the government cancels the training cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u138	At the end of this debate, Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u139	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for a good debate. Perhaps in summary, this development of inequality — the concern that not every Finn can keep up — must now be given special attention in the second half of the Government and Parliamentary term. Finland will be set up, and public finances must be in good shape there, and we have a clear programme for that. The EUR 10 billion sustainability gap will be managed through structural reforms of EUR 4 billion, which will reach it until 2029, or at that level will be measured, and there will be a great deal of them now in this period and this spring in the debate. This will also provide a great deal of employment for Parliament. 4 billion is made up of savings, cuts, and these decisions have already been taken, as has already been said many times. How will that employment rate reach 72%? It is clear that if economic growth is around 0.8% or 1%, it will not be achieved. It's obvious. Unemployment does not fall by much by a percentage of economic growth. We need a growth rate of 2 %. Some institutions have already predicted 1.8 per cent for this year, 2 per cent for next year. With these figures, the employment rate target will be achieved. Well, they're not yet in the forecast, and quite a few predict growth at this point, so we have to keep working to keep that career going. In the next framework debate, the mid-term review, these issues are at the centre and, as I mentioned, all the proposals for improving the employment rate will be received. We do not have much room for manoeuvre in the economy, so we will then have to look for that room for manoeuvre in refocusing and structural reforms. Similarly, the fact that local reconciliation would now take another step forward in the union rounds next autumn is in line with the government's objectives, and it is quite unanimous in the view of the economic sage that increasing local reconciliation will also be reflected in the improvement of employment rates. Good parliamentary spring and season for the whole Parliament! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u140	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A referral debate on this subject will take place until 7 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the conversation ends before 7 p.m., we'll move on to the next one, 12 p.m. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u141	Mr President! The Government's proposal to the Parliament for the amendment of the Postal Act is under discussion. In the Government's proposal, the most important thing is to adapt universal service obligations to the present day, while creating new distribution activities, in particular in sparsely populated areas, through procurement procedures. The proposal makes it possible to distribute universal service, i.e. postal letters sent by private persons, in urban areas on three days a week. Three-day delivery in cities for stamps is possible because urban areas have not only a universal service provider's distribution network but also other distribution networks that can be used by the press, businesses and other operators in their operations. Consequently, the possibility of distribution up to seven days remains. In those areas where there is no alternative distribution network for the distribution network of the universal service provider, five-day distribution will continue to be guaranteed, as is the case today. The distribution is organised using the procurement procedure organised by the universal service, which, together with the traffic cycle, makes it possible to combine genuine transports, for example, in the case of mail, medicines and persons. The reform will also create new entrepreneurship in distribution, especially in sparsely populated areas. It is important to note that a possible three-day distribution is possible only for universal service letters. The distribution of hospital letters, bills, newspapers, parcels, magazines and so on is covered by bilateral commercial agreements, allowing, for example, the seven-day distribution of some newspapers. The proposal does not discriminate between citizens, as all citizens will have equal access to information and distribution services up to seven days a week. Universal service obligations are made more flexible because the universal service provider is able to operate in a situation where the volume of letters is falling dramatically and there is less to distribute every year. The proposal ensures that the universal service provider could also operate without State aid. In addition to examining the universal service, the proposal opens postal code and address register data so that new and better services can be created for postal customers, taking into account privacy and data protection requirements. At the same time, potential barriers to competition will be removed. In addition to the apartment-specific hatch, the performance also allows distribution to the apartment-specific log break. The proposal does not require the use of the locker, but it is up to each housing company to decide if it is possible to install the locker in the house. The post office and its employees deserve every support for the work they do. Posti is and will be an important part of the services of Finnish society. The government is responsible for the smooth running of postal services at reasonable costs. It is also a question of equal treatment for citizens. However, the world is changing: digitalisation is progressing rapidly and passes through all functions of society. The habits and expectations of service users also change. That is why the government has chosen the path of reform, and our aim is to ensure that legislation is possible. The objective of the reform of the Postal Act is precisely to secure the delivery of mail at least five days throughout the country, taking into account citizens' expectations of postal services. The purpose of the reform of the Postal Act is to secure postal delivery services throughout the country. It is not intended to increase unemployment, on the contrary: together with the new opportunities opened up by the transport cycle, it is intended to create new jobs for distribution throughout the country. It will continue to be important for the postal sector to have a good future and prospects. Multi-modal transport, which is made possible by the traffic cycle, also makes distribution profitable in rural areas and in sparsely populated areas, where people are already providing services from many different sources. Companies providing distribution services can play a leading role here, develop services for citizens, and at the same time guarantee efficient and secure postal services in the future. The Act is intended to enter into force mainly on 1 June 2017. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u142	I'm sure there'll be a little debate. First response, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u143	Mr President! It is important for the assembly that the delivery of mail is also guaranteed in the sparsely populated area, and thank you to the Minister for ensuring that this is done in a good way. I myself have pointed out in the past that the distribution of doors in blocks of flats is a rather heavy system, and I personally would say that at least in the case of new houses, we could go to the point where the distribution is not at every door but at the bottom of the staircase. Instead, I have wondered about Posti's activities in sparsely populated areas in the grouping of these mailboxes. The journeys there are often much longer and more difficult, even along ill-managed roads, and I would therefore like to see action taken on these issues. Minister, each of us would like to have at least one postcard every day, but this is no longer the case today, and I would ask you what it will cost to distribute these postcards in the future if they are reduced at this rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u144	Mr President! Laputian delays in the delivery of mail have caused many people to spill over and cause disproportionate harm to people’s daily lives. Many days late invitations to a doctor, old editions, and cancellations due to late invitations have not only caused regret but also costs. Lapland has already served as a front-runner for this reform, when the postal service is distributed, even if the law requires five days of distribution. The way in which the mail operates has given the Lapps a taste of what such three-day distribution would mean in practice. Minister Kiuru did not allow the Post to live on this distribution last season. I would like to ask the Minister how you will ensure the delivery of mail in the future, and precisely this equal treatment of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u145	Mr President! Posti’s universal service obligation is currently too heavy for Posti Oy to carry. That is why we need reform so that people can have letters of mail, newspapers and packages in the necessary time. Even during the last or previous period, when the SDP had the Minister of Communication’s portfolio or the corporate governance portfolio, there was no willingness to put additional tax resources in place to finance the universal service obligation. That is why we are in front of a new one, wondering how postal services are secured in Finland, both in cities and in sparsely populated areas. The fact is that, at a rate of 10% a year, Posti’s letter mail will be reduced, and digitalisation will also deprive magazines of the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u146	Mr. Speaker! First of all, special thanks for this new Article 50a on the visually impaired, or whether it is a new one, but still a good extension and service for them. Of course, this development in the Post has been a reality for some time. We know that there is very little more to each of us today than advertising in the mailbox. So the electric side has advanced and is bound to move forward. We have to adapt to this, and this is what is happening. In other words, I consider this bill to be a worthy and, in fact, almost the only opportunity. Is that enough in the long run, and that's what we can think about. Surely, in this situation, the senders will have to take into account the fact that the letter may be received a little later. For example, the due date on the invoice should be moved a little further and then the call to the doctor to send a day, a couple, three earlier than so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u147	Mr President! First of all, Mr Ojala-Niemelä must be told, unfortunately, that the distribution problems of Posti are not the exclusive rights of Lapland. Last time here a couple of days ago came a bill sent in October, which has now also become bears and paid late interest. I was just wondering who I'm sending the bill to at Posti Oy. But then to this performance itself. Equality has often been defended in this Chamber, and we have been prepared to invest quite a lot, for example, in the fact that television broadcasts can be viewed all over Finland, but for some reason this proposal is not so strict about that equality. Although everyone is allowed to pay the same postal fee, the other customer will receive the mail three days a week and the other customer five days a week. What equality is this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u148	Mr President! What is the purpose of the Post? Is it mowing or nursing? No, it's a basic service, transporting mail. The post office must travel reliably and safely. Linking the reform of the Postal Act to the overall reform of transport services raises questions. Which services will be combined? Where are the savings to be applied for? But someone always pays for the savings. In lawnmowing, school transport or home care, each has its own professional skills, and they cannot be combined with the collection and delivery of mail. I fear that savings will be sought in terms of working conditions and lower qualifications for workers' backs, postal costs rising from Finnish pockets, and by weakening the basic service for each of us. "Continued to be fully populated" in the multiparty objective programme,but how is it possible in practice? I ask you, Minister, how will the reform be secured?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u149	Mr President! The problem of mail cannot be solved by not admitting that there are problems. I am really sorry about the debate that Mr Vehkäperä has just led us to. The post office has never asked for the capitalization of Post. I'm sure that's what the minister will prove. He doesn't have a request like this either. A rather big question would be if this government decided to do so, when the previous one was unable to do so because This was not decided by the post itself. Today we have gathered before this bill to ask how to ensure the delivery of mail throughout Finland. Here's one of the models for the presentation. I personally am not in favour of it, I say it honestly here, because only history books will prove that this model will most likely be in a situation where Finnish newspaper distribution will stop. The postal service will do so because it is not a universal service product. This will lead to the fact that it is precisely in these areas where the delivery of mail through five days' distribution is guaranteed that this will not happen in the case of newspapers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u150	Värderade Herr Talman! Tack för ministers presentation. Digitaliseren innebär stora vöjligheter men också stora utmangar i synnerhet för traditionell postverksamhet. Postvolymerna och omsättningen har sjunkit snabbt. Lagförslaget addressar den rauh verkligheten och jag stöder förslaget till flera delar. Det är dock några delar jag upplever som problemmatiska och som jag vill lyfta upp. Lagförslaget kommer i practiceken att innebära en stor försämring av utdelningen i skärgården. Det oroar mig mycket, och jag undrar om ministers sett på alternativa utdelningsmöjligheter som att exempelvis använda drönare för transport av post till öar i skärgården. Avslutningsvis tidningsutdelningen. En fungerande tidningsditribution är i grund och botten en democracyifråga, men många tidningshus brottas med snabbt ökande distributionskostnader. Därför anser svenska riksdagsgruppen att tidningsutdelningen brode tryggas genom att omfattas av postlagens samhällsomfattande tjänster. Det har ett pris, men jag tror att det också skulle vala samhällsekt lönsamt att samköra postutdelningen med tidningsutdelning på morgnarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u151	Mr President! The postal bill is moving in the right direction, as has already been pointed out in this speech, for example in Mr Löfström's speech: the number of postal services carried as a result of digitalisation and so on has fallen dramatically and can be expected to decrease further. This is a process that we cannot influence, and so it is no longer as profitable to carry mail there to different backgrounds around Finland as it used to be, and we are therefore in a situation where we have to come up with new ways to get even the mail that belongs to us. There are good features here: the presentation increases competition, new innovations can be made in rural areas, there may be different ways of exporting mail and other goods. Of course, we must ensure that newspapers reach their destination at least five days a week and so on. I think that the idea that, for example, mail can be divided into boxes at the bottom of the staircase is good and can be developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u152	Mr President! It has to be admitted that these magazines are read in electronic form and letter mail has decreased, perhaps valentine cards are now available. But when, for the time being, the mail comes to that rural wilderness, where I live, and when this does not belong to the universal service, it can then be distributed on a commercial basis later, and then it is said that this is not really covered by the postal law again. I would ask — there is one possibility that the State could then support these sparsely populated regions — and how does this happen in practice, because when I read this bill, I did not get any wiser at all that what is the vision of the future of these regions? I'd like some clarity on that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u153	Mr President! The dramatic change in the operating environment of postal services is not due to legislation, old, present or new law. Rather, it is because the number of letters has decreased considerably over the years. And we must remember what the universal service obligation of postal services is at the moment: it does not apply to newspapers, it specifically applies to letters that have been drastically reduced. The objective of this government proposal, the second phase of this postal law, is precisely to secure the delivery of mail at least five days in the whole country, taking into account the expectations of the citizens of postal services. This is very important: it is noted that these services are also available in the whole country. However, competition must not lead to the cost of distributing customers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u154	Mr President! I personally feel that it is largely a question of whether the government of our country sees mail as a basic service or as a business. It is strange that the red thread of basic postal activity seems to be a weakening of services. No company can cope with such tactics, whether the market situation is free or monopolistic. Mr Government, this is a state-owned Post. In addition to the fact that mail will be less frequent in the future, you will be eating up your own employment target with the postal people, and thousands of postal people will be in the future when they are out of work. In your presentation, the procurement procedure also includes compulsory tendering. Minister Berner, is the compulsory tendering of postal universal service products intended to provide some kind of secure business for joint distribution companies in rural areas from the purse of the state company? I see no other sense in this coercion, because it is certain that outsourcing based on business and business considerations will be successful without Posti.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u155	Mr President! Mr Vehkaperä wondered why the previous Communications Ministers did not capitalise on Post. The mail is a winning company. What kind of capitalisation would it have needed? In fact, this traditional delivery of mail continues to be profitable. [of the Socialist Group : Yes! ] But what happens now that this postal law is being reformed? In those areas where Posti makes profits, distribution is reduced to three days a week and in those areas where the distribution has caused significant losses, which have been covered by this profit — i.e. in sparsely populated areas — the distribution continues for five days.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u156	Mr President! I think this government proposal makes a lot of sense. At least I thank the Minister myself. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u157	Mr President! We all know that there are more and more difficulties in the delivery of mail at the moment, and something has to be done. Where Posti’s profitability currently comes from — yes, it comes from the multiplicity of moments in which Posti has been able to run, as the state does not support and is not intended to support Post’s activities in the future, so changes to the legislation must be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u158	I will give the floor to the representatives of Kymäläinen and Hoskonen and then to the Minister for some 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u159	Mr President! I am concerned to hear from the representatives of the city centre and the government here that this proposal from the Postal Act is praiseworthy that this is some sort of solution. I have in my hand the opinion of the Legislative Review Council on this postal law, and it is quite clear here that the shortcoming is that the main benefits and costs of the key proposals are not reflected in the draft. The draft proposal does not reflect the expected impact of key proposals on businesses, households, public finances or public authorities in euro. The financial impact assessments of the draft proposal do not indicate whether the combined costs of the expected combined benefits pursued by the change of law exceed the total costs. It is rather worrying that, despite the fact that the Evaluation Council is proposing that these shortcomings and shortcomings should be rectified before the proposal is brought to the attention of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u160	Mr President! Indeed, time changes, and laws must live with the time we live in. Of course, the Post Office is important to us all. It is important that when the letter leaves Rovaniemi — whether it leaves Utsjoki or Helsinki — it always gets there and is reliable. That's what we're holding onto. The world has changed dramatically. I remember a time when post offices stopped a lot. Even the real post office in Ilomants eventually stopped, and the terrible cry was that the services were now deteriorating. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u161	Now to the Minister, three minutes and after the Minister, at least to the representatives of Koski, Taavitsainen and Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u162	Mr President! Indeed, the universal service obligation of postal services only covers letters sent by citizens to each other. However, as a result of digitalisation, the volumes to be distributed have fallen significantly and the revenue received by Posti from distribution has decreased by between 50 and 70 million per year. It does matter, and it has also been reflected in Posti's activities in their recent procedures. The current universal service obligation is burdensome for Posti. Digitalisation has done that the letters are sent less and the majority, a third, of the letters that are sent are sent in a short period of time in the Christmas environment. It also means that when we have the opportunity to facilitate the operation of Posti and to reduce this universal service obligation for these letters, which therefore do not include invoices, do not include newspapers, do not include advertisements, then we should also see to it that we make progress again. In cities today we have an average of 14 routes per hatch and a week. So, on average, each hatch is visited twice a day. Not all by Posti, but there are also a significant number of other distributors who distribute goods to each hatch on average twice a day, when we have the opportunity to facilitate Posti’s obligation — but in practice every hatch is visited seven days a week. On the other hand, there are, on average, five routes per week in rural areas. We go on weekdays once a day. And that means that then we cannot reduce the obligation in rural areas to create an equal starting point for people, but that in rural areas we are going to try — by combining services and by making them competitive — to create entrepreneurship and to support the access of sparsely populated areas to that service, precisely so that it is combined with early distribution. This will enable newspapers to have access to early distribution, for everyone, even once a week. This is the aim of this exercise and it is therefore extremely important that we genuinely try to see how we pragmatically solve this whole. The opinion of the Evaluation Council was received during the consultation. If you have checked, our proposal has been supplemented in this regard following the opinion of the Evaluation Council, having received the positive and negative influences of Post and having received the positive and negative influences of the Union of Newspapers. You can see them there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u163	Mr President! I think that the reform of the Postal Act is very welcome, and I am sure that in this House too we agree that some reform — and controlled reform — is needed in order to improve the delivery of mail in this country. A number of speeches have been made in this Chamber to raise concerns about sparsely populated areas. There's been a dispute over mailboxes and mailboxes. These concerns are, of course, real and existing, but somehow they make me think that, in the light of these arguments, Finland is ready for reforms as large as it should be. If you look at international developments, there are very well-functioning digital mail delivery systems in other Nordic countries, which Finland should rather take as a model, so that the delivery of mail can also be renewed to such an extent that new generations also receive services that they experience mainly for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u164	Mr President! Minister, if the ultimate purpose of this law was to secure the distribution of newspapers, did you have any idea that one way would have been to define newspapers under universal service obligations, which would have been more equal than in this proposal? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has had to point out a great many of the government's legislative proposals during this period. Today I was both in the Committee on Defence and in the Committee on Transport, where we dealt with the comments of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. How, Minister, are you going to react when such a distribution company in the urban area ceases to operate and then people no longer belong to this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u165	Mr President! There have been major problems in the delivery of mail, has been in Lapland, has been in Espoo, and so has Helsinki. One of the main reasons for this is that, when the number of mail decreased — which is a fact which I suppose everyone here is signing — the Posti reacted to the fact that he was sacking postal distributors and expanding postal delivery areas, and even though it was calculated that a larger number of doors could be shared, physically, as the journey lengthens, that is not possible. As a result, our mail distribution has been poked — and yet it has been profitable. For a long time, even decades, Posti’s services were terminated, and later they were reinstated. And now the result of this is that our mail is slowing down in urban areas, but also in sparsely populated areas, and the result of this is that we are also losing employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u166	Mr President! Newspapers have already put their own newspaper distribution on the market today, i.e. they either share it themselves or buy it elsewhere. Similarly, Posti Oy is already competing in markets that are even more open to all companies and all operators in this law. But I agree with Mr Arhinmäki that the negotiations of the current Post Ltd cannot continue in the same way from now on. This is an untenable situation for Posti Oy's employees: we are in constant uncertainty, in a constant spiral of calculations that when the number of letter mail and the number of newspapers is constantly falling, what is there to replace them? A new business opportunity, e.g. through the traffic cycle, will allow for the transport of other goods in the sparsely populated area, e.g. by mail: shopping bags, medicines,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u167	Mr. Speaker! When Mr Vehkaperä claimed that Posti needed state aid, that is indeed not true. [Heckling] In this government proposal, it remains to wonder about this coercive competition in sparsely populated areas: when it likes to be carried out by an external operator, why does this not also give Posti the opportunity to share, and then if Posti does not want to share, then the competition will then be launched. But in this bill — if I misunderstand, then the Minister will probably correct — this has to be put out for competition, and Posti cannot deliver it himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u168	Mr President! In fact, I would like to continue by saying that, now that the opposition is suggesting that nothing needs to be done, the truth is that the volume of letter mail has fallen very sharply since 2009, in recent years 100 million per year, from 900 million to 800 million and so on. This means a reduction in turnover of around 60 to 70 million per year. I would like to ask the Minister — and I was not able to calculate it myself here, but I can do it afterwards — what does this letter cost in 2020 if it is to be delivered by the current staff, i.e. no one is to be laid off — which is, of course, always unfortunate if they are to be laid off — and everything is to be exported and held on to this? What is the cost of sharing the letter, since it now feels like we are giving the wrong impression of this change,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u169	Mr President! This opening-up of competition will not benefit those living in the province, as the new players will concentrate on the denser distribution areas of profitable corporate mail. I do not understand this: we recognise that something has to be done, but it cannot be that what is being done is weakening the level of service, that I receive mail in Rovaniemi three days a week, but Eeva-Maria Maijala receives five days a week at Svukoski. I mean, it can't be like this, you know, putting people on two floors in the future. I'll say an old proverb.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u170	Mr President! In this Chamber, in this debate, I understand that everywhere in Finland, that is, everywhere in Finland, Posti has had problems and delays, and especially in the delivery of mail there have been problems. I can tell you that I myself have received a letter sent home more than six months earlier, so that they are everywhere. But it surprises the opposition that nothing should be done. However, we all recognise that there are problems. The number of letters covered by universal service obligations is decreasing every year and will soon no longer exist. Digitalisation will take over Finland, and we have to do something. As far as I am concerned, this government proposal for a postal law is therefore a good thing to take forward. And here are also good things, precisely that five-day distribution is now guaranteed throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u176	Mr President! There is no realism in this proposal, which is in the Chamber today, there is no logic. One may wonder that, if there has actually been a debate within the EU as to whether there can be a derogation from the country-wide five-day distribution system, there are two exceptions here. Normally, you would think that, as would be the case in the EU countries, there would be a debate about either introducing the distribution that is not distributed on five days — in some pilot countries, that is, introducing it. Now, however, three-day distribution is being proposed. In addition, it is suggested that the letter speed is reduced and has been made in these countries, which have not decided to give up the five-day distribution. So here we are going to take two steps to allow the letter to stay five days on the way, which means by the weekend that it can last virtually a week. So this government is proposing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, if twice the same representative takes more than a minute, then I hope that the next time the representative will see that we will at least stay within that minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u178	Mr President! Rural services are currently unprofitable for Posti. We all know that. Why, then, is the opposition now opposed to making rural areas more profitable?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u179	Mr President! Yes, it must be wondered how competition would guarantee its service to unprofitable areas, to sparsely populated areas, if it did not succeed now from the post office, which has been operating for 600 years, which has covered the operation of postal services in those sparsely populated areas with the income generated by the mass mail in urban areas. How would the competition guarantee this service? I have to wonder. And it also concerns the level of personal data security when the customer does not know who is distributing the mail, whether it is Posti Oy or some private operator, and where the electricity bills or health records or the doctor’s appointments or job interviewers disappear. How do people know who to turn to if there are many private players in the field?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u180	According to my observations, Mr Taimela has not yet taken the floor. I will give him and then the Minister the floor, three minutes. If there is still a burning fire after the Minister, then two or three speeches, and then I will list them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u181	Mr President! First of all, at this point in the debate, it must be said that equal services for citizens with regard to postal services cannot depend on the business decisions of private operators. I hope that everyone understands this in this debate. Then, when it comes to this state-owned Post, I am also surprised that, according to this government’s proposal, Posti will now have such a claim as to hand over an address register to other operators. However, it must be remembered that this whole system that we have at Posti has cost tens and tens of millions over the years. The demand that other potential operators now receive these address registers, so to speak, directly into their arms, is quite a support for these new postal companies, and when we talk about the really state-owned Post, which also pays its owners euros, this seems somewhat unheard of,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u182	Now, Minister Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, with regard to the distribution and collection of universal service, a derogation from the five-day distribution is allowed if there are no universal service letters to be distributed, i.e. to facilitate the universal service obligation of Posti. Moreover, flexibility brings a reference to quality standards and e-services, this is the main rule. At the same time, we are proposing to make the speed standard more flexible and to use electronic channels for distribution. So this is the rule. In practice, it means that each of the letters of universal service obligations, which are letters sent by citizens to each other — this does not include invoices, do not include letters of office, do not include the doctor's invitations, none of these things are in this category. These are then distributed at least three days a week. But at the same time, the reality is that there are other distributors in the cities. There are already other distributors for the post office, and Posti is already bidding for services with its subcontractors. And since in the city we are sharing in practice 7 days a week something, 14 routes a week, we add a new sentence to make sure that at least, even five times a week, is distributed in areas where there is no early distribution at the moment. Why the bidding? Because it makes it possible to combine services so that other things can be carried in the same transport. We can make it a little more profitable. If it is not there, then Posti still has an obligation, or an opportunity, if it is to be viewed that way, to take care of the delivery itself. [Department : With what money? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u184	We shall now proceed to the list of Perhaps we should make a response to Mrs Wallin, and then to the list of speakers. — — — — Congressman Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Just a short question: If this law now comes into force, as the government is likely to drive it, then how will the regulations of this law be monitored in the future when the Finnish Communications Agency is the one who needs to monitor it? And now that there are these problems in the country by the current Postal Act, do you guarantee that FICORA has sufficient resources? And perhaps such a change in legislation that it will be more rigorous in the future to ensure that this universal service obligation will be implemented in the future, not as it is now, but that it is just that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u186	Well, let's go to the list of speakers. — I think the Minister would like to say 'yes' or 'no', but I think he will then answer that question at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u187	Mr President! Minister! We've got a really big postal problem up north. On many occasions where I have been, people have come to ask if in the future you can no longer be confident that information about the doctor’s time will come in time. This is a real worry. We must not forget the elderly Finns; not everyone has smooth digital skills. This proposal undermines the basic service of each of us and unfortunately puts people in a position of inequality. The letter can stay on the road longer than it is now. First of all, it would seem that in a sparsely populated area the situation would be better if the five-day distribution were maintained, but when the articles say otherwise. Is it true that today’s paper will not arrive until the day after tomorrow if there is no letter mail? In the end, even this change of law will hit people in remote areas the hardest. Competitiveness outside the early distribution of newspapers does not make much sense. It only increases bureaucracy and costs and disciplines workers. Consumer postal charges are likely to rise. This reform is justified by the government's deregulation efforts. In fact, this proposal weakens the services of Finns and, on the contrary, increases bureaucracy. Mr President! I'm particularly concerned about my employees. The State must be a responsible owner and employer. Now the government intends to force Posti to hand over his address register to competitors, and at the same time the privacy of Finns may be threatened. As a result of competitive tendering, the situation of workers is becoming more precarious. Your work is at stake for every competitive bidding. We cannot build a basic service on such clumping of workers. It's hard to find an A in this performance. We will go through this carefully in committee. Would it not be time to develop postal services rather than weaken them? Would it not be time for us to give the postmen the appreciation they deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u188	Mr President! The postal sector is undergoing a major transformation. Digitalisation will replace letters and magazines as surely as e-mail replaced telegrams and faxes. Similarly, e-commerce increases the number of parcel delivery. Last night I bought two products online for Posti's vanmat. For example, in Denmark, which is a couple of years ahead of us in digitalisation, invoices and newspapers have already moved to the network and only electronic transactions with the authorities are made. In fact, only two days a week will be delivered in Denmark. This amendment to the Postal Act is only an intermediate step in the structural change in local logistics. I hope the Posti will take advantage of this transitional period. However, this presentation does not promise Post any good. Lowering the quality of the service will certainly not improve Post's competitiveness vis-à-vis its competitors. In practice, this quality level would mean that Posti's services could no longer be used, for example, for public authorities or for billing. Although letters from public authorities are not covered by the universal service obligation, the slowing down of the delivery of mail will inevitably also have an impact on the delivery of letters from public authorities. You cannot send time-critical letters if a significant proportion of them are delivered only on the fifth working day, i.e. one week after you send them. In addition, it should be noted in the detailed explanatory statement in section 17 that, when assessing the quality of distribution, a minimum of 96 % of the quantities distributed is considered to be sufficient quality. I mean, every 25. the consignment may stay on the way for more than five business days. What will happen to the unemployed, for example, to whom the TE Centre has sent information about an open job? When he does not apply for a job on time, he will be faced with a qualifying period and lose his unemployment allowance. There are already too many such cases, already within the framework of the current law. In any case, the due dates for invoices sent by mail will have to be delayed for at least a week. And a week isn't always enough. I actually got an invoice in my mailbox a couple of days ago that was sent in October. Bears and delayed interest have been paid, not from the Post, but from my own bag. It is noteworthy that the quality standard clause of the proposed law does not pay attention to security of supply, only in time. The Postal Act assumes that all shipments will be distributed to the right address, such as the announcement of my son’s assignment to the neighboring house. Both feedback from the field and my own experience indicate that distribution errors are unfortunately common. For example, I have missed two medical hours because the invitation letters never arrived. Mr President! A good bill is clear and simple. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Article 17, for example, clearly states that universal postal services must be collected and distributed on five working days a week, except for public holidays, in accordance with Article 19 the quality standard of universal service laid down. Furthermore, Article 19 states that at least 50 % of consignments are received on the fourth working day at the latest and at least 97 % on the fifth working day at the latest. It is only when the reader examines the detailed arguments in Section 19 that he finds that five working days a week means three working days a week in this law. I don't want reading the law to be secret science. We'll have to go straight to the section and see if it's worth going to the mailbox on Tuesday or Thursday. Mr President! From the point of view of equality among citizens, it would at least be questionable that mail would be distributed differently in different localities. However, everyone pays the same price for their shipments, whether they are distributed on every business day or not. However, the most equal of all would be citizens of other EU countries, whose transmissions would be distributed to Finland fastest, i.e. faster than those sent from Finland to Finland. This is not what I would have expected from this basic Finnish government. I understand the government's concern about the fate of the provincial newspapers, but isn't this going a little too far? First, Yle’s website had to hide the municipal deliveries of Yle so they wouldn’t compete with the regional newspapers. Now the government is trying to secure the five - day delivery of regional newspapers by reducing the volume of mail distributed in urban areas. Maybe good for the county papers, but does this improve Post's competitiveness? The government knows the answer: not cure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u189	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the Postal Act. Well, that's good, because now's the time. The proposal suggests that the distribution of universal service letters should continue five days a week in those areas where there is no newspaper-run distribution network, i.e. early distribution of newspapers. In Northern Finland, this still means that the so-called morning post will arrive at 6 p.m. So nothing will change in this respect — hopefully it will change, so I am wrong. I think the newspaper should come in the morning, because otherwise it is not news. Then it is worth considering, for example, whether there is any reason to obtain provincial magazines if they arrive at 6 p.m. this evening, since the same magazine can already be read online. But if the Internet doesn't work either, it's probably the only option to wait for evening mail and evening news on TV or radio. As I have already mentioned, with the reform of the law, the delivery of mail would continue five days a week in those areas where there is no newspaper-run distribution network, i.e. early distribution of newspapers. This makes it possible to distribute newspapers for five days, as is the case today, also in sparsely populated areas. This is an important principle and we must insist on this. In this way we can keep the whole country inhabited, including rural areas. Welcome to the countryside to live. In sparsely populated areas, distribution is proposed in the proposal through the procurement procedure organised by the universal service provider. This should be seen as an opportunity, not a threat. Of course, this can't be considered a threat if you live in the city. I also think it is important for those living in sparsely populated areas to continue to receive their mail as a paper version if they wish to do so themselves, even if there is a strong increase in electronic communications. There is a lot of good in this presentation, and in any case,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u190	Mr President! The government's soul is expressed in this postal law. People, equality, the Constitution and the basic services of society are ignored. Apparently, coercion is a government motto. The development of the government's operations began with forced laws, progressed towards forced-to-carrying of wars and the expropriation of Finnish soldiers abroad, and is now condensed with forced procurement. The post office would be forced to tender and obtain its distribution in rural areas from companies. In this way, the government is creating an inefficient, bureaucratic system in which cars are driven successively so that companies share letters and mail under universal service obligations, after which other letters and packages are distributed, because why would Posti hand over contracts he has concluded, for example, to distribute letters from insurance companies to that rural entrepreneur? Doesn't sound like a sensible, efficient, high-quality operation. Companies can also close down at very short notice, and the distribution in both rural and urban areas is immediately a mess. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has often had to point out the government's legislative proposals. Today, both in the Committee on Defence and in the Committee on Transport, we were faced with the fact that the Ministry's proposal contained proposals that were not constitutional. Now we are going to have another bill of this kind put on our hands. Will the government lack respect for Finnish people and the rule of law? Thus, Finns living in urban areas will be placed in an unequal position vis-à-vis rural residents. The division is based on the boundary between distribution companies. But no one knows where those boundaries go. It was not included in the bill’s explanatory statement, and what about when the company changes the distribution area — at the same time, the right of people to receive mail in one direction or another is changed. After all, the routes of early distribution companies that distribute magazines change according to how people order magazines. The mail would be delivered on different grounds according to the place of residence: to others faster and to others slower, even to city dwellers in a week’s time. The Ministry therefore ignores the fact that the division of people according to their place of residence seems to be contrary to the equality regulation of Article 6 of the Constitution. The law itself states that the purpose of the law is to ensure fair conditions for postal services throughout the country. However, this is not the case with the content of the proposal. Is the division of people based on whether or not they live in a distribution area of a company, your image of good legislation? In other words, in cities, the flow of mail would slow down just as the force of the penalty payment has brought the disruptions in the delivery of mail to an end. In the last two weeks, there has been only a slight disruption in distribution due to the fact that: It has been necessary for the management of the post office to hire enough workers or to start paying fines. After all, the post office has avoided hiring workers like the plague, and the government — with this proposal — would support this line of Posti’s management and make between 2500 and 3,000 people unemployed in practice. It therefore appears that Sipilä is not directing the state company, but is directing Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Berner. Postal is a basic service, because we are not such a digital society that mail is unnecessary. More than 2 billion shipments still pass through the mail every year. With this proposal, it is worthwhile for those living in Haparanta to post their letters on the Swedish side, since EU regulation guarantees that foreign mail must be distributed more quickly than this one. Mr President! The delivery of mail has been the part of Posti’s operations that has produced tens of millions of euros of monetary income per year, and the State received a dividend of 18 million, for example, last year. Instead of focusing on its basic task, Posti has wasted hundreds of millions of euros of money by buying transport companies and equipment, for example, to transport food. This eats the bread of Finnish transport entrepreneurs. And I wonder if the Prime Minister, as the general meeting in charge of corporate governance, will bless the operations of the Posti Board of Directors. Should we not call for a special audit and exchange of board members so that Posti can direct its basic tasks and stop wasting its money and excite the cost of distributing the mail? This law also requires that mail be forced to provide other distribution companies with their address details, including those subject to an address ban. In particular, representatives of some professions, such as police and soldiers, have problems if the addresses are available to all. We have many citizens whose address is not public. According to Article 10 of the Constitution, the privacy, honour and home affairs of each individual is secured and the secret of the letter, the call and other confidential message is inviolable. The article guarantees everyone the right to confidential communication. Now that the quality of postal operations is calculated with this presentation, trust in the operation and the confidentiality of communications is lost. Mr President! I believe that this postal law should be completely rejected, because we simply do not need such a law. Instead, we must respond to the wishes of citizens and businesses that the postal service should go within the time limits of the law currently in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u191	Mr President! It is good that I am allowed to speak after Mrs Taavitsainen, because the previous speech contained a lot of things that confirm my belief that I am very happy that we in the centre are now in government responsibility for these matters and that we can do things in the way that we are able to serve the Finns, that we can take care of the current situation, the current developments, the current development of digitalisation, and not at the same time bring huge additional debts to the state. So, according to this, we are going forward, and on this communication and transport side we have made a lot of presentations — this postal law is one piece of this big picture, there are others on the round of traffic — and as a citizen of the most remote rural area, I am very pleased, happy that our problem situation has now been taken into account in today's development. This development, which we are now involved in, and we are working on the law according to it, responds to the fact that the countryside and the whole of Finland, including the cities, will continue to be able to live on an equal footing. There have been a lot of difficulties in the delivery of mail lately. We all know and know this situation. We also know that these difficulties have come from the fact that Posti has statutory universal service obligations and, at the same time as we are a member of the EU, we are committed to a wide range of forms of competition. Now we have had to open up the tendering of postal services to the open market, after which competing operators can peel off cream, but Posti also has obligations to take care of. We must be aware of this and we must act accordingly and move things forward. We are currently living in a time of big change, a time of transformation. One thing is that digitalisation has developed at a tremendous rate. We also have the same situation in Savukoski, my village, 30 kilometres from Savukoski church, from Rovaniemi to Eastern Lapland, about 210 kilometres. Broadband construction is a very important issue. Today, in this Chamber, we are still having a debate on the development of support for broadband construction. This is one sign of the way we have taken the whole development of Finland under the responsibility of the government. In 2018 or 2019, different government agencies will also switch from mail to e-service. This is good. For example, Kela will receive a huge amount of unnecessary mail, which can currently be distributed electronically. Here's another lot of letters out of the mail. We are prepared to accept these in electronic form, but it is good that, at that point, paper versions are also to be made available to those who need mail in paper form. That is why we will continue to need postal legislation which will ensure that there is someone everywhere in Finland who has a universal service obligation and who will also deliver those paper versions. As it stands, in the current situation, we have no move forward. We need to make a change. The Postal Act needs a change. I am really horrified at the way the opposition is saying at the moment that we are going to put the whole thing in a scrap heap. Do you not want to take responsibility for the proper distribution of mail throughout Finland? Have you not frightened the situation that we currently have with the mail when Posti has not done what needs to be done? We need to make a change. We must be prepared to ensure that services for all continue to be provided. We have very good proposals, but it is also good that on the part of the opposition we get some concrete proposals on how to move these things forward, but just barking will not get us anywhere. We are all aware that this is a very difficult whole. I hope that you will also shoulder the responsibility and make proposals constructively on how to resolve these problems. There's a lot of trouble here. This bill is now a good basis, certainly not ready. Time is moving fast. I hope that we can build a legal package on this now, which will make a big step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u192	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the first sentence of the Government Bill, "the proposal promotes digitalisation and the dismantling of standards as a key objective in the Government Programme of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä." The presentation promotes digitalisation by weakening physical postal services. I would like to remind all of us that electronic services cannot be the only option, at least not yet. Not all of us in our speed blindness see that we still have older people and special groups among us who cannot, do not want or simply cannot afford simply electronic services. I will start with what I said in the debate that equal services for citizens in postal services cannot depend on the business decisions of private operators. In terms of legislation, I find it very difficult to propose that the level of universal service should be determined by the distribution of newspapers not included in the universal service obligation. In due course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have to give an opinion on whether the level of public services for citizens can be determined according to whether there is an independent commercial activity in the region. However, the commercial operator may change and terminate its activities freely when the draft law provides for annual review of the distribution obligations of Posti. Mr President! A contradiction is the government’s argument that the proposal would ensure the sustainability of the postal system as the volume of mail decreased. In a letter sent by consumers it would be sufficient for 97% of the shipments to be distributed on the fifth working day. The current limit is 95% within two working days. So the letter could not be trusted to arrive until a week from now, if even when we are familiar with the practical situation. The increase in the reasonable margin in the pricing of universal service obligations contained in the draft law is tantamount to a licence for price increases. The profitability of our postal system depends on sufficient transmission volumes to cover fixed costs. By reducing the quality of services and increasing prices, this will only further accelerate the decline in mail supplies if the service is not perceived as a competitive alternative. We're done here. In this case, there is also a risk of other distributions on the Post, such as the distribution of newspapers when unit costs are going to rise. It must be remembered that the delivery of basic mail is a profitable business, both by Posti and as a wider industry. This is something to be said out loud so that all of us can remember it. Mr President! I said in the debate that it is now largely a question of whether the government sees the country. Post office is a basic service or business. It's very strange that The red thread of basic postal activity seems to be a weakening of the service. In addition to the speed of the mail, or to put it realistically, slowness, one incomprehensible line in the government proposal is the proposal for a procurement procedure. It can be considered as a direct coercive competition. In any case, when Posti is to be left with an obligation to manage the statutory postal services, it would at least be reasonable for it to be able to decide for itself how and by whom the distribution work is to be carried out. Mr Government, when it comes to Posti, which is wholly owned by the State, I still wonder how it can be that, according to the government's proposal, Posti will now, among other things, have this claim to hand over the register of addresses to other operators. All of this has cost tens of millions over the years, and this claim is now also quite supportive of the new postal companies. I have the Post Service brochure in my hand. I was looking at this today when I was thinking about what I would say today and how I would go to this post-law referral. This is where the text begins: "Our goal is to have a smoother everyday life". Somehow I feel that the government is now taking considerable responsibility for whether that is going to be the goal or whether it will ever come true. Not even the opposition is opposed to changes if they are equal, if they are sustainable constitutional considerations and, most importantly, if they are not, they will improve people's confidence in our basic services, to which I am reading at least the Post.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u193	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a postal law under discussion has not been made directly to Posti Oy, as could be seen from this discussion in the hall. This is a postal law which guarantees a minimum level of universal service obligations for letter mail, i.e. a minimum level, when we talk about these universal service obligations of 3 and 5 days. In my opinion, mail is a fundamental right of Finns. From that point of view, I myself will look at this law. Postal difficulties are partly due to digitalisation, which has fundamentally shaped people's behaviour and demands and expectations of postal services. The operating environment is undergoing radical change, not because of legislation, old or present or future, but because of changes in the way citizens operate. Instead of e-mailing letters, the magazines are read online. In the future, in the next few years, letters from the authorities will be sent to an electronic mailbox, and whatever the technology brings, we will see. In the summer it was reported throughout Finland that the mail of the day did not arrive at all or that it would not arrive until dusk anyway. In November 2016, Post was indeed subject to a penalty payment of EUR 100000 in violation of the universal service obligation. We are therefore in a position to ask whether we are still fulfilling this universal service obligation. There was a discussion in the Chamber earlier on about how, at the moment, the postal services, in particular the implementation of the universal service obligation, can be financed or implemented. I myself do not believe that Posti Oy should be capitalised or that public tax revenue should be used to pay for postal services. Posti Oy is a business company and operates in a market where it should be able to make its own income stream itself. And I do not believe that anyone else, as a politician, believes that we, with public money, would be going to pump the security of postal services. We are therefore in a situation where the Competition and Consumer Authority and the European Commission have also often taken a stand to remove artificial barriers to entry in Finland, and it has been established that the licensing procedure must not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on companies operating in the sector or create barriers to entry. These are the obstacles we are removing right now and making it possible for those rubber wheels and hands to run more than just letter mail and newspapers. Indeed, in rural areas such as passenger transport, postal packages, catering, school transport and so on can be combined in the future in order to make transport, logistics and long distances profitable in Finland. Mr President! The government responds to people's wishes for postal services. When the first consultation on the development of postal services has been held, the clear answer has been that the distribution of newspapers must be secured at least 5 days a week, but that letter mail, that traditional one, would be prepared to thin it down a little bit. In other words, this is a direct response from the public, and the universal service obligation responds to it so that it is reduced to 3 days per week for letter mail, but that it means that in the regions of early distribution, mail could be distributed on 3 days per week — with the word'may'. In practice, however, the distribution would take place every day of the week, because mail and parcels are distributed in cities by people other than Posti. But securing five days' distribution throughout the country is very important, and in rural areas we will then share letter mail five days a week, and this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u194	Mr President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! The reform of the Postal Act will ease the universal service obligation of Posti. Thus, the distribution of universal service letters can be reduced to three days in cities and agglomerations, while in rural areas, mail will continue to be delivered five days a week. This distribution would therefore take place five days a week, at least in areas where there is no early distribution network operated by newspapers, and the Ministry of Communications would define the boundaries of the regions on an annual basis. This is a very clear whole. In fact, universal service letters are given today on average 40 copies per year per household, of which one third is Christmas cards. In the postal sector, the turmoil caused by digitalisation will continue in the coming years, as the volume of mail to be delivered will continue to decline. Strong speeches have been made here about the fact that mail is a basic service, and even about the fact that everyone needs to receive these letters. I do not know how, then, we parliamentarians will ensure that everyone receives such a letter, for it requires that someone also send it. This is not, therefore, about the tax authorities or others, but about the letters that each person, such as Mr Kaikkonen, sends, and he is a diligent sender and, of course, he has well maintained this service for his part. Change is inevitable. I am almost convinced that the government would do this, no matter what party there is. I also understand that from the Green Left of the Chamber this is strongly criticised and partly hit by these axe attacks in the centre, that this concentration is at stake, and I understand that it could be that, if another kind of government base did this, the voice from the centre of the Chamber would be slightly different, but I am convinced that, regardless of the government base, this reform would have to be carried out. In fact, the volume of letters went down sharply in 2009, when the annual volume of letters decreased by around 2 per cent. In 2012, addressed letter mail decreased by 4 per cent, the drop in 2013 was 10 per cent, and this has continued. However, the volume of letter mail in Finland may have fallen slightly slower than in other European countries. For example, if we compare with the Nordic countries, Germany, Britain and Holland, we send a lot of address mail in Finland. Perhaps this is due to the fact that we have moved more slowly, above all, to electronic invoicing. The breakthrough in billing electrification took place in Finland only a few years ago, 2013, and Posti estimates that in 2020 the share of electronic consumer bills would already be 75 per cent of all invoices. One point of light for the Post sector has, of course, been increasing mail sales. It has been seen with the growth of online commerce. On the other hand, it has brought challenges of its own since then, but it may have secured postal services in many places. The last figures in the mail show direction. The number of addressed letters decreased by 100 million in 2014. In other words, when another 900 million letters were distributed in 2013, one year later the number had fallen to 800 million. I did not find any more recent statistics, but according to Posti's estimates, the decline has continued to be around 10%. This means that fewer and fewer letters are given annually in Finland. The estimate is that the volume to be allocated is currently shrinking at a rate of 10% per year, and this is bound to become a profitability problem for Posti. According to postal estimates, if the invoice continues at the same rate, the company's turnover is reduced by between EUR 60 million and EUR 70 million per year, which has come to light here. Now that we have been given the impression that nothing should be done in Posti, i.e. jobs should continue to be guaranteed for everyone, even though the number of letter mail is falling, I would be happy to take a statistics or a calculation which would see what will happen in 2020 to send that letter. When Mr Kaikkonen puts them forward, and if he today goes to a certain amount to send them, what will be going on in 2020? However, there has been quite a general perception here that this is not to be supported, either from the left or the middle or from the right side of the hall, by means of tax resources, which means that the price of one letter will increase significantly if the same staff and the same distribution obligation are maintained throughout the country, even if the amount of mail is reduced. This would be very relevant information and interesting to say so that we can get into the context of a factual and factual debate here too, rather than just thinking about feelings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u195	Mr President! The Government’s proposal to amend the Postal Act, which is now in the referral debate, is definitely a bill appropriate to the spirit of this time. This is the kind of show we have to make. Minister Anne Berner has been accused of this, and I consider these accusations to be totally unreasonable and very wrong. Minister Berner has done an excellent job in this regard. And for this, if anyone is still trying to find the guilty party — Mr Hoskonen, who is not guilty of this — then the world has only changed and the pace of change is accelerating. If one of the Green Left opposition thinks you'll never change, then back in the '70s there was a hit, a Jouko and Kosti played a song you'll never change, and you've probably got an earworm on that song. But the world just changes, and we can't help it. The new postal bill responds to the change that is currently taking place in this country, and it is simply not stopped by anyone. The universal service obligation remains and is now enshrined in the law that mail is delivered in rural areas five days a week. If it does not exist one day for some reason, the postal service under this universal service obligation, i.e. you have not written those stamps, then it can be distributed even on a little less days when there are none, but on five days the newspapers will come and the mail will be distributed. The use of reason in this matter is not prohibited either, and this law permits its use of reason. Mr Heinonen has just given a strong demonstration of the enormous reduction in the number of letters covered by this universal service obligation, and we cannot do anything about that either. In the order of today's day, the process of building broadband in this country will begin in a moment's time. It is precisely when we build a broadband network that it eats the delivery volumes of mail. Is there anyone else's fault? It is a modern day, but this new postal bill is preparing for the expansion of the broadband network and the digitalization process. That is not Minister Berner's fault, but Minister Berner is quite right to react to this situation in this country and in the world. It's nobody's fault, it's just this moment of time and development. Of course, the nature of the universal service obligation has changed dramatically over the years, and even post offices, as we all know, have disappeared enormously from rural villages and municipal centres. For example, from Ilomants when in this time the post office where to pick up the secure mail was lost, everyone was terrified that the postal services were now deteriorating. That was by no means the case. When it entered the local big store, it is now open seven days a week from seven in the morning to nine in the evening. The quality of postal services for us improved by 100 per cent and more. Very good service is provided and in normal trading hours seven days a week. If anyone complains about it, then the name of the nimble is deserved. The revenue from mail is reduced annually by the current expenditure, as the volume of these letters is reduced by between EUR 50 and 70 million per year. We must also respond to this, and the opposition should recognise that this reality exists and that it does not change anything if we deny it. It's just something we have to live with. The delivery of mail today is free in this country. Competition is free in Europe and in the world. What can we do about it? Mail addresses are freely available to everyone, just like telephone numbers, unless someone necessarily wants to hide them for some special reason. It's a free database, and there's nothing you can do about it. It is in Finnish law, and denying it is self-deception. That's just the way it is. Of course, I would like the world to be on some impetuous level, but that is not what it is anymore. And don't fool people with the fact that the world is gone. It's just gotten this way, and it's getting faster. In any case, the addresses are freely accessible to anyone, and we just have to live with them. In any case, the universal service obligation is enshrined in this new bill of law and guarantees the distribution of five days to the countryside. And then, this weekend, Posti has arranged for the distribution of newspapers, among other things. So in my municipality too, Karelian, the provincial newspaper, is distributed to each home or to those mailboxes even during the weekend. That world hasn't changed, and it won't. Finally, Mr President, the fact that the Postal Act now allows Posti the opportunity to distribute more than that mail is a great thing. We respond to the need for services in sparsely populated areas. Is it possible that the food rations ordered by the customer and prepared by the municipality or any other, medicines, certain services will be distributed — this law makes it possible to do so. I don't see any threat. Since the amount of mail is falling, if the mailman brings home a bottle of medicine from the pharmacy or health center or some food package that the customer has ordered and what is he paying for, what is wrong with it? After all, in cities and urban areas the delivery of mail will certainly be as good as before, certainly. That's where the Post distributes them. And we have more than a dozen companies in this country, which distribute mail all the time, and if any letter from you, any letter from you, or any French letter — which is otherwise not covered by its distribution obligation — goes to the wrong address or comes late, do not accuse Post of it. It may well be shared by a company that has acquired its address and operates on a business basis. I don't want Posti to blame for that. It's like if someone's speeding, it's not the police's fault. Maybe it's somewhere else. That it is worth even the little opposition to think about what you are saying, because the truth is the truth that does not burn, and we have to live with it. And this new bill responds to what the world has changed, and it is neither Minister Berner's fault nor the signatory's fault, but it is adaptation to this world. To that end, this government proposal, prepared by Minister Berner, is very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u196	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u197	Mr President! Thank you for that reply. — I seldom do this, but I recall last week when the President of Parliament made a good speech, not the first of course, but he has had to make quite a few speeches about the language we use for each other in this Chamber and elsewhere. Of course, this year, when the centenary anniversary of Finland is celebrated, it would be felt that the representatives in particular would think that they would stick to the issue and not go down the road to which, for example, Mr Hoskonen now went in his own speech. So right now I'm a hairy ear, I'm a green left, I'm a picky beak, and I'm an imposter. But to get to the point in hand: I also say that it is quite normal for the opposition to disagree. As I said in my own speech, the opposition supports good ideas. We are only criticising this from this perspective of equality. If sustainable constitutional aspects are taken into account and people's confidence in basic services is improved, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u198	Mr President! Representative Taimela has regretted that I spoke of the opposition as a green left, but that is what it is: it is left-wing parties plus the Greens, of which the term "greens" has been used in the general language. If a representative: Taimela has been hurt, and I very much regret it, but it is a common metaphor of what the opposition is currently forming in this house. Is that a bad thing, you have to ask the voters, not the signatory. My second point is that the people in the countryside are quite often accused of being Impivaara — for the first time I hear that a city dweller reproaches the boy in the countryside for being called Impivaara. I think it's all right. However, it is worth sticking to the original issues. I'm sorry if I've said wrong, but under no circumstances did I mean a bad thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I tried to listen quite carefully to what Mr Hoskonen said. At the time, if those concepts had been cast against an individual representative, it would have been a point to make too, in my opinion. However, I did not recognise this, but Mr Hoskonen assessed the views of some political groups, for example, with the word 'green left'. Is that a nasty concept, a concept of barking that shouldn't be used? My interpretation was that it is not a concept of barking that should not be used. However, I agree with Mr Taimela's pertinent appeal to try to use not only one another here, but also as far as possible from other parties when speaking as factual and correct a language as possible. — Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u200	Mr President! There was talk of general words or words, but I was thinking of it as a nimble beak and a sticky ear. [Interjection] Mr President, Minister! Messages from citizens and news in public have given an alarming signal of problems in the delivery of mail, both in cities and in sparsely populated areas. The functioning of postal services is obviously at stake and the constitutional secret of the messages is threatened. The more operators, the more uncertain the matter becomes for the customer. Who is responsible when the invitations to cancer screening have not come at all? Nurses are waiting for customers, they're wondering if there's anyone out there, who's paying? Is there a transfer of vital research? The universal service obligation has also guaranteed the delivery of other mail. Who will replace — Posti, the government, the entrepreneur — when the bill is not received and the bear bills come? Or you don't go to a job interview and the sanctions bite you? Or the entrepreneur will not be able to pay his bills to another entrepreneur when they never arrived? Parliament cannot fail to respond to people’s constant, repeated messages that the mail will not come. Downtown is asking if nothing should be done. You tell us that your direction is on the move, you tell us that reform is not always nice, but it cannot be left undone. It does not make sense to make reforms if they are only done for the sake of the reform itself. The reform should improve people's services, not weaken them. That is why we cannot accept a bill that undermines the equality of people. The text of the bill acknowledges that there are areas where the service is deteriorating. Your "flex speed" means allowing the speed to slow down. Today, in this Chamber, you said that the centre does not approve of discrimination. I would hope that you will not, as you are doing with this proposal, make a difference. Instead of strengthening its grip on the ownership management of Posti, the Government will bring to Parliament a proposal that undermines the reliability of Posti’s operations. Here you promise that this presentation will secure the future of the postal service and that you will shoulder the responsibility. I am quite sure that people who already have bad experiences of the failure to deliver mail really hope that this will be the case. I am already sorry for these people when they realize that this is not going to happen. Now you can convince me this way, but you'll find it in front of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u201	Mr President! The Government’s proposal to reform the Postal Act under discussion is yet another example of the current government’s will to reform Finland to suit the requirements of this time. Globalisation, technological development and in particular digitalisation have challenged the postal and media sectors in particular. Traditional operating models in these sectors have quickly been replaced by new digital models. Instead of sharing traditional letters and newspapers, customer demand has increased in the home transport and logistics of online purchases. However, making legislation work better with the new reality has generally been very slow in this country. That is why the government and Minister Berner deserve our thanks for the courage and for the rapid updating of this law, which is vital to the postal sector and, among other things, to the newspaper sector. The content of the draft law itself, Mr President, can be welcomed. The proposal is a balanced package that takes into account the wishes of consumers, operators using the Post, such as newspapers, and Posti itself. Making universal service obligations more flexible in urban areas and using electronic services for the collection and distribution of universal service transmissions are sensible reforms. On the other hand, the reform will ensure the preservation of postal services throughout the country. The distribution of sparsely populated areas will continue for five days a week. This will be done through competitive tendering. The debate here on competition has turned into a strange boogeyman. I don't believe in it. Properly implemented, this competitive tendering of services can bring significant benefits and improve services, especially in sparsely populated areas. It can also increase business and employment. However, this requires that the regulation of the procurement procedure on which competition is based is sufficiently precise. Is that the case with this proposal? I believe that the committee will also explain this matter with sufficient precision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u202	Mr President! This reform of the Postal Act responds to the present, the delivery of mail and the operations of Posti Oyj. In other words, when the debate has taken place, there is a rather vague picture that many speeches combine the delivery of mail and the operations of Posti Oyj very much in this regard. The flow of mail and the situation really do speak and worry the citizens very much. Therefore, the obligations of Posti Oyj should be carefully considered and the delivery of mail handled throughout Finland. The volume of letter mail has been falling by 10% a year for several years and the trend is still decreasing. There is no improvement in the prospect of this, because electronic transport will increasingly replace letter mail in the future. There has also been a strong increase in e-commerce both in Finland and globally, and this trend is bound to continue. The purpose of the reform of the Postal Act is to secure the delivery services of Posti throughout the country. It is not intended to increase unemployment, as has already been said in several speeches. On the contrary, together with the new opportunities opened up by the traffic cycle, this government proposal aims to create new jobs for the distribution sector throughout the country. Posti Oyj's employees will probably have to be reduced, but new operators will also be in the distribution sector, I believe. The fact is that the distribution of newspapers has been poking hard lately, and some days the magazines come in the evening or the next day. This cannot continue. It is definitely too late because the news is getting old very quickly. Postal service is a basic service and it is important that this weakened situation:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u203	Mr President! Reforms — of course, our objective is that they should always improve services, but we cannot always do so. However, the most important thing for all of us is that we should first stop the deterioration of services. The deterioration of postal services must be brought to a halt immediately. If we can also improve services, it's just extra. After all, our objective in this whole traffic cycle plus then in the overall reform of this Postal Services Act is to improve services even more than is currently the case. There will certainly be changes to the current situation, hopefully, and we will try to achieve that. It offends me that a great deal has been said in this debate that urban people are paying for rural services. But Finland is a big country, and we need each other. We really live together from the same purse. The task of our legislation — here as our common task — is to ensure that we can achieve a level playing field in all matters. Rural areas provide food, raw materials, jobs, activities for the city, that cities, on the other hand, can manage administrative services. Together, we form a large, wide-ranging entity. I find it offensive to say that the people of the city support us. I wish you could think about it as a whole, that what is. If we are thinking only of the postal service, it may be and may be that certain activities replace, pay, but these things are also the other way around. Posti is a basic service and its responsibility is as one of the basic service providers to be responsible for managing the services of the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u204	Mr President! This new bill actually continues to deliver mail in cities on 7 days a week, in rural areas on 5 days a week it is guaranteed mail delivery and weekends have then been covered by other contracts. So, after all, with this bill, the world will not change much. The fact that this field of competition has changed dramatically means that no one in this Chamber can stop it. I called Mr Ross on this matter, who is the chairman of the Board of Directors of Post, and he told me this information in more detail when he knows Posti very well, as a company like that. It is up to the President of the Board of Directors of Post to know his own company. He told me this story, and I understand that once this competition situation has changed and the addresses have been released and so on, the competition has also entered this market. If we are going to cry now that we are not going to do anything about this matter to the post office, and then we are going to be able to win in 10 years' time what damage we did, then it will not help any further explanation of whether Mr Hoskone said the name of some opposition perhaps wrong or something else. Yes, we must live and truly make our laws fit for today, according to the situation. Soon we will be dealing with the broadband law, which must be extended to all households in Finland. Mrs Maijala rightly said that she finds it offensive to use the term that urban people support rural areas. The people of Lapland have had to give up their rapids for the huge number of power plants and the electricity has come here to the rest of Finland. Someone might be smart enough to think that someone is providing for something. I do not think that such thinking is appropriate in this country. Post is a whole, mail is a whole, it must be kept as such and it must operate throughout the country. Finland is one common area. We have to keep it in shape together. And if anyone gets hurt too, such as Mr Kymäläinen — just now someone used the term that Posti in a region makes a profit and then pays for something else. It's a little like this to think that
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u205	Mr President! I am sure that in that committee we will read this text of the law and its passages very carefully, but the question here is to the representatives of the political parties and the minister: When the presentation text in that law is a little confusing, it gives the impression that this distribution in rural areas must be competitive at five days, but the distribution party can introduce the flexibility of the universal service quality standard and reduce delivery days to three days a week. In other words, now that it has been acclaimed that this five-day distribution should be maintained in rural areas, it is on the basis of this text, when it is clearly read, that this would not be the case. Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u206	Now I'll give Minister Berner three more minutes. Then the time window for this discussion will be used. — Minister Berner, please. Thank you, Minister, for being here for the entire two hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u207	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this debate, for the food and feedback. I have also listened, Mr Taavitsainen, to your point of view on corporate governance, and I would also like to remind you in this connection that you are a member of the Board of Directors of Post and that the Board of Directors is responsible for the company's management, according to the website of Posti Oy, and also according to the Companies Act and the Articles of Association, for "supervising the management of the company under the responsibility of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO, and that the company's affairs are handled with a view to sound business principles and profitability, and in accordance with the decisions of law, articles of association and general meetings". So our responsibility is shared in this matter. A radical change in the operating environment has been inevitable, not because of legislation, old or now regulated, but because of changes in the way citizens operate. It is now up to us to look ahead and also to look at the expectations and needs of the citizens at the end of the mail distribution chain, to which we jointly respond. This sometimes also requires exceptional solutions and solutions for assessing whether exceptional facilities are needed when we have a country that is long, sparsely populated and where we also have long distances. It is precisely because of this that the postal law is not a simple whole that preparations have been made in two stages. First, there has been an evaluation report in the consultation process, where we have sought extensive feedback from citizens, industry, newspapers, businesses, distribution companies and, of course, Posti. Since then, on the basis of this feedback, a government proposal has been built, which has been re-examined in a consultation which has also received the opinion of the Legislative Review Council, in which we have considered that we have sought the most comprehensive possible solution to ensure that five-day distribution is maintained throughout Finland. But in order to secure that five-day distribution, we do not have a level playing field. We have those companies which, in order to perhaps use the phrase often used in this Chamber, 'cream peeling', have built structures in cities where the service can be secured partly on seven days but at least five days a week, partly twice a day. This is not the case in sparsely populated areas, and we therefore have to ensure, with exception, that this distribution there will certainly be. In this way, we will promote equality and ensure that inequalities do not arise, even though we are fighting the decline and decline of postal services due to digitalisation. Posti is a state-owned company, and together we are responsible for Posti's operations, including the members of the Board of Directors. But this is not about Posti Oy, it is about postal legislation, and that postal legislation is being built up for all those operators, in particular for the protection of citizens and for the distribution of mail. And it will continue to ensure that we maintain the confidentiality of communications, that we maintain the general principles of universal service obligations and that we continue to maintain them. Responsibility of the Finnish Communications Agency. It is therefore up to us to work to ensure that all the legislation that we adopt in other areas, as in this case, for example, through the traffic cycle, together supports the creation of profitable distribution throughout the country. This will safeguard entrepreneurship, the creation of services and employment, and that is our common goal and our shared responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u208	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u209	Mr President! Government proposal 2/2017 proposes to amend legislation on aid for broadband construction in sparsely populated areas. The aim of the amendment is to promote the construction of supported broadband networks by increasing the share of public support in the total cost of projects. In practice, the change means that the costs of construction that are to be borne by the recipient of the aid will be reduced. This allows cheaper access fees for subscribers and thus increases the demand for subscriptions. Increased demand means a higher number of paying customers and thus improves the profitability of projects. Further changes will allow more broadband projects to receive additional support from the municipality and other public bodies in the form of guarantees and favourable loan terms, for example. This facilitates the financing of supported broadband projects and is therefore expected to increase the interest of telecommunications companies in participating in broadband projects. The proposed changes also support key government projects as they reduce the administrative burden of all parties involved in the support process, in particular applicants and FICORA, by streamlining legislation. In addition, the changes promote the use and availability of digital public services, i.e. the so-called Digi1 tip project and the development of the growth environment of digital business, i.e. Digi2 tip chip. In addition, changes to the legislation will take into account the abolition of regional federations in the context of the regional reform. The changes will be implemented by making the following legislative changes: Up to now, aid could only be granted in regions where less than 5.4 per cent of the population of Mainland Finland has lived. After the entry into force of this law, projects to be competitive will be excluded from the demography of aid, i.e. these so-called red areas will also be eligible for aid. However, it is still not possible to grant aid to market-based regions. The regional reform is due to enter into force on 1 January 2019. As a result, the regional councils will be dissolved on 31 December 2018 and the tasks of the regional councils under the law will be changed to a fixed term and will remain in force until the end of 18. Similarly, the application for support to FICORA must be made by 31 December 2018. The tasks of the Regional Councils are timed to define the project areas and to tender and select the project promoter prior to the application for support to FICORA. So far, the unsupported share of the subscriber management has been two kilometres. In the presentation, the uneligible part is reduced to 100 metres and the subscriber of the connection has the possibility to apply for a household allowance for work. The deadline for the termination of the broadband project approved by the European Commission in the notification process is 31 December 2019. As a result, it is proposed that a payment application be submitted to FICORA by 30 June 2019. In this case, FICORA will be able to process and pay the subsidies by the end of 2019. Until now, the use of different types of public support financial instruments has only been applicable to projects that were competitive before 12 November 2012. According to the proposal, these instruments can be applied to all projects for which FICORA has not yet paid support. The increased aid intensity of 90 % has only been applicable to these 2012 competitive projects. According to the proposal, the increased aid intensity can be applied to all projects for which FICORA has not yet paid the aid. The proposed legislative changes do not require a change to the power to grant State aid granted by Parliament to FICORA. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u210	Mr President, Minister! The proposal proposes to amend the law on aid for broadband construction in the sparsely populated area so that the granting of aid for future projects would not be limited to those regions with a population density of up to 5.4% living in an equally sparsely populated or less sparsely populated area. This proposal is more than welcome especially in the countryside. The high-speed broadband project was launched by a Government Resolution as early as 2008. The purpose of this project was to ensure, through state aid, the construction of high-speed broadband networks in areas where commercial operators would never build fixed broadband. The objective of the project was that by the end of 2015 more than 99 % of users would have access to 100 mega broadband connections within two kilometres of their permanent residence or business location. This government's objective is currently very late. There are gullible municipalities that trusted the pioneer work encouraged by the government’s proposal, and the construction of broadband networks started in a number of areas, including Rääkkylä. In our municipality, despite the size of the municipality and the economic resources, it was seen necessary to ensure that our residents were able to communicate as part of basic infrastructure services. An additional motivation for building fixed broadband was also the creation of digital services in social and health care, as well as the development of e-services. We need to understand from the broadband network that it's basic infrastructure like our roads. A fixed broadband network is vital in a sparsely populated area, even in the sense of equality among citizens, and the construction of information networks should not be a task of the municipalities but of the state, as mentioned in the 2008 Resolution. The country’s government’s top project, digitalisation and the development of electronic services, without fixed broadband, is not possible in sparsely populated areas, where even mobile phones do not always work. It is therefore appropriate that the Government make changes to the current financial system to facilitate the financial responsibilities of municipalities and information network companies. Let us hope that this government proposal will shed further light on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u211	Mr President! Broadband has been built in Finland like the Isaac Church. The Broadband for All project has been launched, you can say, almost a decade ago, and the Rapid Broadband project is now under way. Various projects are under way. Broadband projects are carried out in the form of cooperatives, municipalities themselves, regions themselves, regions themselves, private companies and so on. So this spectrum is huge, and there has been some feedback about whether the state or the public sector should have taken a slightly bigger catch from this, perhaps that the whole of Finland's broadband projects would have been drawn a little more state-driven. But on the other hand, the spectrum has allowed the best possible tailoring of the broadband project to different areas, different needs. But the most important thing is that public money is being used to support these projects and now is being used more flexibly. The public project support has been directed to areas where there is no market value for investment in the construction of a fixed network, for example due to low number of subscribers and long distances. Well, we are often asked if it is worth supporting mobile or optical fibre, and the answer is certainly in the areas of long distances and sparsely populated areas and in Finland that we need both. In particular, optical fibre connections are needed for services that require reliability and high speed. When we want to promote, for example, teleworking opportunities, agriculture and the economy on a large scale, the bioeconomy and new business opportunities across Finland, i.e. employment, we need well-functioning and comprehensive telecommunications connections. Until now, the programme has been slowed down by too strict conditions for the use of aid. In addition, the money has been spent every year. In other words, the conditions are now being loosened so that the construction of widebands can be speeded up and more and more Finns get a functional network connection. Obstacles have therefore been removed before during these projects. For example, the advance payment has come to these projects — just towards the end of the last parliamentary term we made this change. The current legislative amendment thus improves the fact that in the past the last two kilometres of that fibre cable construction have not been eligible. In the future, this own-account journey will only be 100 metres, which means that it will be significantly easier to use the aid and the threshold to seize the aid will be lowered. And then the bonus on top of everything is that it is possible to make use of the household allowance for its work. In addition, the share of public support in the total cost of projects will be increased and more broadband projects will be allowed to receive additional support, including in the form of guarantees and favourable loan terms. Well, I have also received feedback on whether, as these aid conditions become easier, the ongoing projects, or the projects that have been submitted, will be supported, or what will happen to them. But the minister there said that the aid, these reliefs, can now be granted to those projects for which the aid has not yet been paid. It is obviously the interpretation used in these. So I am sure that the projects that are currently under way will be able to think that they will benefit from this new law — those to whom this public aid has certainly not yet been paid. In turn, the operating conditions for old projects would be improved by, for example, increasing the aid intensity. In the future, support will also be available for less populated areas, as the population density of the region will no longer limit access to aid. It should therefore be noted that there are a number of reforms that need broadband access. I will take, for example, these electronic mailboxes we talked about recently, or the transport services, or even the digitalization of comprehensive school, in the form of new learning environments, content and pedagogy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u212	Mr President! In fact, the previous representative, Mr Vehkaperä, at the very end, raised what I was thinking about talking about. It is this digital leap in schools, and this is, in fact, very important for these very things. Now we have many schools still in contact with us, that this digital leap is no longer about learning materials or knowledge — children already know everything and teachers at an accelerated pace — but it depends on the fact that technology does not work. Then I very much welcome the fact that even these schools in the living countryside are connected to the end of the fibre, and in fact even in all urban schools they are not at such a level. I myself, as a former teacher, have been contacted, for example, by worried abiturists in the light of the electronic matriculation exams, how these connections work when it is time to write in spring — and in a few moments all the writings — electronically. This is an expensive task, but when we talked about the delivery of mail in the previous paragraph, I do find it much more positive that we would prefer to put the tens of millions of them in this way, that we should build functional electronic networks, since there is a future here, whether we like it or not. Then it is good that telework works and digital services are made to work. We also have different plans for transport and transport. In other words, the digital leap must now really be taken in Finland in the same way as Minister Berner, who has taken a good grip on it. This work has already started at the time — in fact, I think it was the Minister Suvi Lindén when it was put in motion — and steps have been taken, but there is no need to go too far when we still have unauthorizedly weak Internet connections,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u213	Mr President! The proposal to amend the law on aid for broadband construction in sparsely populated areas is quite good. These fibre connections have now been being drawn from different parts of Finland for many years, and in many cases strict support criteria have become a barrier to construction. There has also been a lack of money when the eligible projects were not worth the amount allocated. From the perspective of broadband construction, Finland is a troubledly sparsely populated country. There is no way in many parts of Finland that modern fibre connections can be built commercially profitably without support. Broadband support is therefore justified. I hope that this proposal, which is in itself good and worthy of consideration, will be considered for further processors. Could fibre connections in leisure homes also fall within the scope of the aid? The EU-EAFRD support conditions also provide for the eligibility of fibre networks for leisure accommodation. Now and in the rural areas of the future, the importance of leisure accommodation or so-called second dwelling will increase as the second home of the household and the job of a small business. There has also been a lot of debate in public about dual locality. It would certainly also be good if the conditions for support were similar in terms of leisure accommodation in the Broadband Act and in terms of EU EAFRD support conditions. Free-time housing would be eligible under the new Broadband Act, e.g. by accepting costs for a part of the local loop up to 100 metres from the user's permanent or leisure residence or location. The impact of this increase on the vitality of rural areas could be very high. The removal of the so-called 'black circles' which are still not eligible for aid in rural areas should be considered and, possibly, these areas should also be eligible for aid. According to the Government’s proposal, the eligible costs are not those in an area which extends two kilometres from the point of access from which progressive communication networks can be provided. In this context, the distance of two kilometres refers in practice to the so-called black circles marked by FICORA. The reference is correct in the case of urban agglomerations with genuine market access to broadband or optical fibre. However, if this so-called black circle is located in a parish or other rural area of the municipality, the above-mentioned provision of advanced communications networks will not materialise and one may ask whether the telecommunications operator’s announcement of the availability of optical fibre networks is correct. There is a risk that the telecommunications operator with a pseudo-notification of the availability of advanced communications networks to FICORA will only protect its own copper and mobile broadband business. It may be that, in the area of black circles marked by FICORA, there is virtually no market-based provision of optical fibre connections in rural areas, as large telecommunications operators do not want to invest in fibre networks in rural areas. There are indications of this in different parts of Finland. I hope that the draft law will be examined in committee, taking into account the points I have just made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u214	Mr President! Broadband should have been built more state-led in Finland in the first place, since it is a transport route. Traveling to Finland is also possible. Why is the use of our broadband networks only a privilege for certain individuals? The problem is that a lot of small broadband networks have been built in villages. It is administratively very difficult to run them, because it is often the cooperatives that run them, and we must now consider in the future how we can combine these cooperatives and build larger entities of these. For example, the municipality would be big enough, even at the provincial level could be quite like this things to run. It is really unnecessary to build up administration and bureaucracy that these small players have been made. I just received a very good message from a person in charge of broadband project work in Lapland. He wrote: "Today I have been on tour of the road safety of schoolchildren and the expansion of digitalisation and how municipalities should be committed to the programme and to oversee the overall benefit functionally. Open network is the word of the day." Open network is the word of the day. Are we going to keep building closed networks? But would it not be time for Finland to start building an open network?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u215	Mr President! This government proposal is certainly to be welcomed. Workable and preferably also stable and fast electronic services must be made available to all Finns regardless of their place of residence. Broadband must be made available to all Finns, and this government proposal will extend the supported construction of broadband networks while also facilitating broadband penetration throughout Finland. We have now even missed the aid because the conditions for receiving the aid have been far too strict. In the past, the last 2 km of broadband cable has not been eligible. In the future, the commitment distance will be reduced to 100 metres, and the new proposal will facilitate the use of aid, especially in sparsely populated areas. At the same time, networks and companies of different sizes of broadband can also operate more flexibly. The proposal represents a significant improvement in existing broadband support and facilitates broadband penetration. Such measures are needed in order to provide services that work for the whole of Finland. Secondly, I would like to raise two important points raised by Mr Kopra. I hope that these issues can also be taken forward in that committee reading, because the fact is that, for example, fibre connections in leisure homes should also be covered, because they are also possible there under the EU's EAFRD support conditions. We must remember that the reform of the Land Use and Building Act is also aimed at moving those issues forward in order to make the transition to permanent housing more flexible. That would be very important, this matter, and the other is the removal of so-called unsupportable black circles from the countryside. I hope this will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u216	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have talked a lot about equality and employment, and I see this law aimed at increasing broadband construction, among other things, as a well-supported proposal for the implementation of these issues. I believe that this proposal can increase broadband penetration across Finland. It is a pity that the current legislation has created a situation in which aid has even been not used because of excessively strict conditions. I believe that this will particularly benefit sparsely populated regions. The objective of accessing broadband throughout Finland is shared, and there are many ways to reach it, and this is one of the desirable ones. However, it is important to draw attention to the fact that the focus of applications is on the regions most in need, and that is something we will certainly consider in committee. I also support the points already raised by Mr Copra and Mrs Torniainen in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u217	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for these feedbacks and perspectives. I would also like to point out that the government has hoped that the committee and Parliament would deal with this proposal as a matter of urgency, and I also look forward to a good interaction and a positive attitude towards moving this proposal forward. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u218	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u219	Mr President! This particular presentation is a really thick piece of paper. The reason why I now wanted to say a few words about this paper is that this may suddenly cost us a lot of money. In other words, we have only just dealt with the subject of the Nitrates and Nitrogen Directives, and we have had many other maritime issues on the table. This is a big bunch of paper to read and sort out. I was just looking at this at the title level and I said that we in the committee must really pay attention to this, that there is no bogeyman here that is really expensive for us to move around. In particular, there are environmental issues here. Well, fortunately, it did not come to us in the Committee on the Environment, because we are the same people in both committees dealing with this issue. But here are a lot of environmental issues, there are cargo transfers between oil tanks, there are toilet waste water issues, solid waste total reform, carbon dioxide emissions and all this kind of stuff involved. Finland is on an island, and almost all Finnish exports depend on the price of our shipping. I hope that this will not bring us further problems and obstacles in dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u220	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u221	Mr President! This proposal by the government to amend the law on the recovery of funds deserves praise. If and when this proposal comes into force, it would support Finnish culture and higher education. In particular, universities of applied sciences have been pleased to be now given the right to carry out collections of funds in order to carry out their statutory tasks and to capitalise the university of applied sciences between 17 and 19. In Jyväskylä, for example, representatives of the local university of applied sciences have said that this opens up new opportunities for developing their own activities. The only bigger criticism is the timeliness of this cost-neutral proposal for central government finances. I would therefore suggest, for example, that, in the light of the experience gained from this proposal, we should think before the end of the parliamentary term about making this change permanent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u222	Mr President! I support this proposal, above all the fact that it will help the various parties to develop their own activities and thereby reduce the bureaucracy. In this context, I would like to point out that I hope that the fund-raising law will be amended more broadly, and in that case I will bring up my own initiative to change the lottery law to make it easier for the various parties to raise money and not always have to have so much bureaucracy and authorisation processes to apply for small amounts of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u223	Shall we intervene, Minister Risikko? Please, and then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u224	Mr President! The government is proposing to amend the fund-raising bill. According to the law in force, the National Gallery and universities have the right to carry out authorised collections for the purpose of capitalisation of their activities in 2014-2017. In August 2016, the Ministry of the Interior launched a project to reform the fund-raising law, in which the role of general government as fund-raising executives is assessed in a broader way than is currently the case. In order to ensure the continuity of the collection of funds for the purpose of the capitalisation of the National Gallery and universities during the reform of the fundraising law, the Government proposes that the deadline set for the capitalisation of the National Gallery and universities be extended until the end of 2019. In addition, the right to raise money is also proposed to universities of applied sciences. Universities of applied sciences together with universities form a Finnish higher education institution. The right of universities of applied sciences to execute fundraising is not expressly provided for in the fundraising law and universities of applied sciences do not fulfil the conditions for obtaining authorisation under the current fundraising law. The right of universities to raise funds was regulated in 2014 for a similar reason. Getting polytechnics quickly, before the comprehensive reform of the fund-raising law, is important to improve the financial position and operating conditions of polytechnics. The right to raise money will be supported by a compulsory tuition fee for students from outside the EU/EEA area who start their studies on or after 1 August 2017. Universities of applied sciences must have a scholarship system to support students participating in this paid degree training. Mr President! The plan for implementing the Government Programme of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä includes a target of EUR 24 million in the capitalisation of universities of applied sciences in 2018. There are no decisions on how the capital is to be implemented. Current legislation does not allow universities of applied sciences to capitalise on universities and the National Gallery, as is the case with the so-called counterpart fund collection, where government investment in each university of applied sciences would depend on the capital they themselves raise. Enabling this method of capitalisation for universities of applied sciences requires that they be given the right to carry out the collection of funds in the same way as universities. For the reasons set out above, it is proposed that universities of applied sciences be given the right to carry out collections of funds in order to carry out their statutory tasks and to capitalise the university of applied sciences between 2017 and 2019. - Thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u225	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. This is a very welcome measure which is now extending this right to raise money not only for the National Gallery and universities but also for the professional highs. It's a good thing we have models like this. With the fund-raising law now open in a certain way, I would like to raise this issue quite widely among the parliamentarians in the previous parliamentary term, even the larger reform of the fund-raising law that is now being planned. Personally, I am strongly in favour of transparency and ex post control being sufficient in the future to organise such a collection, for example an association. In other words, unnecessary red tape could be dismantled and instead of a heavy licensing system, a register that would, for example, be available online for everyone to browse and examine, and post-control would then work on it. However, crowdfunding has come to stay in Finland too, and it seems crazy that in time the foreign service had to be used by Linda Slippery, the author of Hello Ruby, who collected more than EUR 220000 through this Kickstarter base. Why could we not have models of this type in Finland as well and treat them in Finland? I believe they would then be better supervised and monitored when they were Finnish foundations, and perhaps they could bring something more employment to this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u226	Mr President! The Government's objective of extending the funding rights of universities and the National Gallery during the reform of the fund-raising law must be supported, and it is good that universities of applied sciences will also be able to benefit from this law in the future. Individuals have had a right to deduct tax: if a private individual makes a donation to a university worth more than EUR 850, the private person can deduct it in taxation. But it only applies to earned income. A number of people who are no longer necessarily employed or who have been, for example, entrepreneurs have indicated that they would be willing to express their gratitude to the university from which they have learned in due course. Minister, you have pointed out that there are still no precise explanations of the capitalisation of the amk. However, I would also like to think in the future that this right of deduction for individuals could also be applied to capital income, not just to earned income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u227	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u228	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Firearms Act on the acquisition and possession of weapons. The aim of the proposal is to reform the arms licensing procedure without endangering the safety of weapons. The current arms licensing procedure requires several personal visits to the police department and is perceived to be complex and difficult for both the police and the amateurs. The reform is based on the 2012 Police Authorisation Management Strategy, which provides for the same development measures for all types of permits, i.e. the clarification of permit processes, the introduction of e-services, the abolition of home-ownership and the reduction of unnecessary visitation. Similar reforms have already been made for passports, identity cards and private security regulations. The project also implements the Government’s objective of dismantling the standard. According to the proposal, the two-step procurement and possession procedure would be combined into the arms licensing procedure. A gun permit would be a licence for possession of a firearm, which could be linked to the right to acquire a gun. An application for an arms permit could be made electronically and the application would no longer be tied to the applicant’s municipality of residence, which would make the procedure more flexible. In addition to the electronic procedure, it would be possible to apply for a permit by visiting the police department. However, the applicant would not be able to choose the police department to process his or her application for authorisation. An assessment of the suitability of the applicant for an arms permit would be developed by focusing the time spent in the current authorisation process on the technical examination of the application and the suitability test and on the police resources for a more individualised processing of the application as a result of the new authorisation procedure. Therefore, the current aptitude test would be abandoned because its usefulness has been poor and has not brought any added value to the safety of weapons. The test has not been relevant to the success of the application and the feedback given by the test has not led to any negative decision on the issue of the permit to acquire the weapon. The assessment of the suitability of the applicant for a licence would be enhanced in the new authorisation procedure by making the interview more individual and by making better use of the information already available to the authority in the authorisation process. The measures proposed in the proposal for the development of the authorisation procedure, such as the introduction of e-services, would significantly reduce the human resources committed to the initiation and technical processing of the application. Instead of technical work, more working time for police staff would be available to assess the suitability of the applicant and the conditions for granting other permits. According to the current Firearms Act, all acquired weapons and parts of the weapon are presented to the police, except for the weapons and parts of the collector entitled to file. In practice, then, a weapon that has already been presented to the police will be repeated when the owner changes. So, according to the motion, the production of a weapon would now be reduced. As a rule, a weapon acquired from a gun manufacturer in Finland would not be presented at a police station, but would be reported by the trader to the police’s weapons information system. A handover weapon between individuals should be presented to the police if the licence to possess the donor of the weapon had been granted before 2000. In the case of permits granted a year earlier, there may be shortcomings and errors in the police weapons information system due to significant changes in the record keeping. In addition, the police can always ask for a gun to be presented if necessary. In the future, the arms trader would provide information on the identification of weapons and components, effective air weapons and gas nebulisers, as well as ammunition storages using the electronic services of the police weapons information system. The notification would therefore replace the filing obligation under current legislation and improve the management of the life cycle and location of the weapon and enable the use of e-services in the authorisation procedure. During the transition period before the introduction of electronic services, the information could be transmitted to the police in electronic form, from which it would be transferred to the Arms Information System as a mass transfer. Mr President! According to the motion, gun collectors would no longer have the right to keep a file instead of applying for a licence to possess arms and parts of a gun, but to apply for a licence for arms and parts of a gun. The new authorisation procedure would be so flexible and clear that there would be no need for an exemption procedure. Weapons and parts of weapons acquired before the amendment would be authorised free of charge during the one-year transitional period. This proposal would also anticipate a very likely amendment of the Arms Directive to include collectors in the scope of the Directive, after which file retention will no longer be possible. The changes introduced would make the authorisation procedure more smooth for both the licensing authorities and the applicant. With regard to the applicant for authorisation, the reforms would reduce the mandatory visit to the police station and, in the case of the licensing authority, the time taken for the technical examination of the application and the applicant’s customer service could be allocated to the assessment of the applicant’s suitability and the examination of the grounds for the application for authorisation. Mr President! I would ask all the listeners to note that this proposal does not make it any easier to obtain a licence for arms, even if the process is streamlined, as the conditions for granting such a licence would remain the same as proposed. However, better allocation of authorisation and control resources, as proposed by the Government, would improve the safety of weapons. For example, firearms and parts of weapons would be entered in the police weapons information system as soon as they are manufactured or imported to Finland. This monitoring of the entire life cycle of the weapon in the weapons information system would enable more effective regulatory oversight and remove the potential for errors arising from the use of separate files. These changes are mainly intended to enter into force as soon as possible. However, changes requiring e-services would not enter into force until December 2018, when the reform of the police weapons information system is expected to be in force. Mr President! One more thing at the end: The proposal also proposes to amend the entry and search section of the police law. During the consultation round, the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman has proposed that the police should be given the right to take over the weapon temporarily, so that peace or public peace can be protected. It is true that the legislation in force is problematic for the police, since the law requires the police to take action, that is to say, to take possession of weapons, if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a weapon, its parts or ammunition is being misused or if the firearms licence is being withdrawn. However, the police do not have the authority to execute the temporary takeover required by the Arms Act. This is what the Deputy Ombudsman of the Parliament has drawn attention to in his opinion. The police may, for example, have information on the continued problems of the arms keeper with alcohol or drugs, combined with the difficult situation in life, and the risk of abuse has been identified as obvious. However, although the law requires the police to take action to seize the weapon, the police do not currently have the power to go to the home of the arms keeper if there has been no crime that could be resolved or if there is no acute situation, i.e. immediate danger of life at hand. So there has been a clear problem here, and the law has required but has not given jurisdiction in another law, and now an attempt has been made to correct it. Then I'd be happy to answer your questions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u229	Mr President! Minister! The proposal proposes to amend the provisions on the acquisition and possession of firearms law, police law and criminal law. The aim of the proposal is to reform the arms licensing procedure without endangering safety. The goal is good. There is a lot of good in the performance, but also something that makes you think about developing the performance. I welcome the fact that you can apply for a gun permit online in the future. This will make the authorisation process more flexible and speed up and reduce the need for personal contact at the police station. This is particularly highlighted where police stations are scarce. The purpose of police management is to continue to reduce the number of police services and thus the number of licensing agencies, thus also reducing the number of persons involved in arms matters. In addition to the electronic procedure, the traditional possibility of applying personally to the police department would remain. As an excellent reform, I believe that the application for a permit for arms will not be tied to the applicant's municipality of residence or municipality of residence in future, but that an application for a permit could be submitted to the police department of its choice, for example on a holiday. It is also appropriate that an aptitude test under the Weapons Act, which entered into force in 2011, should be abandoned in the context of the authorisation procedure. The experience of its usefulness, according to my knowledge, has been very contradictory. The usefulness of the test has been poor and has not really brought much added value to the safety of weapons. According to the proposal, the assessment of suitability in the new authorisation procedure would be improved through a more individualised interview of the applicant and more effective use of the information already available to the police in the authorisation process, for example by developing the automatic exchange of information between information systems. We can say here that we hope that the new police information system Vitja will finally be completed — it has been tried for years. Doctors have also been obliged to report to the police persons who are inappropriate for the possession of a gun, part of a gun, ammunition or particularly dangerous ammunition. According to recent news reports, there have been very few such reports. Other health professionals also have the right to report. Perhaps there is also room for improvement here. I also know of the officers in charge of arms, who think how I can prevent a person from acquiring new weapons. In my opinion, it is not the task of the police to refuse but to allow leisure activities where there are grounds for doing so. Every gun enthusiast, reserver and hunter should be treated equally in Finland as a whole. There's still a lot to do. The motion states that the Firearms Act does not provide for the grounds on which the withdrawal procedure may or must be initiated. This is where the most excesses and the most obvious cases of legal murder occur today. I know of cases where, along with the divorce application, the hunter's weapons have been taken over by the police when the other party has reported a suspected incest to the police. This crime is very detestable, but at the same time, during the investigation and the judicial process, a person may not be allowed to engage in the only hobby he has. The weapons will be returned in a few months and it will be said that these hunting seasons will continue. Is this reasonable and right? I don't think so. A new paragraph 4, proposed in Section 6 of Chapter 2 of the Police Act, states: "...the use of a weapon, part of a weapon, ammunition or particularly dangerous ammunition is misused or the withdrawal of a permit has been initiated". What is the need to change this point now, when the last time the law was changed, it was rejected? Why should weapons be mentioned separately when they are already covered by the current law? In my opinion, that addition to paragraph 4 is unnecessary in the field of arms. It would also be good to discuss in real terms what is a legitimate reason to initiate the withdrawal of arms licences. Is it an incest in connection with a divorce application, a financial crime, unintentional speeding, or what? I believe that this is where much remains to be done, and the law will hardly ever be fully completed on this point. The main thing, however, would be that all gun enthusiasts, hunters and reservists would be treated equally in both southern and eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u230	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Risiko, for the fact that the arms licensing process is now being streamlined. This has been a pretty big challenge for responsible gun users in Finland. I understand that something had to be done, but I think that these movements, which were carried out, were overdramatic, and that is why it is good that, for example, the aptitude tests are being dropped and the electronic search is being introduced. This is still going to be quite difficult, and it is regrettable that just ordinary, decent young people are no longer enthusiastic about sports shooting or hunting because it has been made difficult to get into it. Of course, weapons can also do bad things, as has been done, but they have not usually been allowed weapons or there has been some other crime involving access to these weapons. Of course, there is room for development in the processes — at least there was one unfortunate case, which, of course, became much public. One thing that I myself would like to raise in this debate is this evidence of a weapon which is absurd. You can do it today so that one person takes a large amount of weapons to the police, which means that the person who shows it doesn't have to be the person who buys the gun, but if I have a license for similar weapons, I can collect 25 guns in the back of my car and go to the police station and show them to the police station. What kind of risk and danger is there, I ask myself, and that is why I myself have made a proposal, which was proposed to me by an arms dealer, to limit this, for example, to the fact that only in those circumstances would that evidence exist when the gun is not sold by an official trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u231	Mr President! This proposal, which is now before us, is essentially a very good one, as of course most of the proposals made by this government are very good. But here is indeed Article 6 of the Law. The point to which you yourself referred, Minister, is the point to which the policeman has the right to have peace of home if there are reasonable grounds to believe that 'the weapon, the part of the weapon, the ammunition or the particularly dangerous ammunition are being misused or the authorisation to do so has been withdrawn'. This is new, and this has been worrying the amateur circles, so it is feared that this will open up some kind of door to the police, perhaps with the will of the police, to make surprise raids on the homeowners' homes, or perhaps not to the police’s will, but to the less good friends of this gun owner. I would now like to ask the corresponding minister why this point is so necessary, and in particular: What is the reason? Is it just someone telling you that there's a gun in there, even if nothing's happened? Just as Mr Kulmala said back there, I too have a number of such cases in which, in the midst of custody disputes or divorce disputes, one of the spouses calls the police and suspects that his ex is violent or threatening. This time, often now, with the current law in force, has led the police to confiscate this other person’s weapons. Yes, that investigation may take several months, even if there is no evidence of this violence, and even if the weapons were then returned to this person, it will be that hunting season many times over. Indeed, somewhere in Finland it may be the only life hole — perhaps even for this depressed person — and a hobby that at least sheds some light on that life, perhaps this particular hunting, and now this would be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u232	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to reform the arms licensing procedure without compromising the safety of arms, and that is an excellent and good starting point. There are good and worthwhile reforms in the proposal, but unfortunately there are also points which, in my opinion, still require a little further refinement. First of all, from the draft law, I would like to highlight the points which I think are good and worthy of support, and then, at the end, I will focus on this second aspect. The first good thing I think is this simplification and electrification of the authorisation procedure. The acquisition and possession procedure and the authorisation procedure for the private manufacturing authorisation would be combined into the arms licensing procedure. A licence could be applied for electronically, which would make the authorisation process more flexible and faster and reduce the need for personal contact. In addition to the electronic procedure, the possibility of applying for a permit at the police department would remain. The application for a gun licence would not be tied to the applicant’s municipality of residence or municipality of residence, but could be submitted to the police department of its choice. This change would make the authorisation procedure more flexible. At least I think this is an excellent and worthy idea. The second part of the block test is dropped. In other words, the suitability test in the context of the authorisation procedure would be abandoned because of the poor availability of the test and the practical added value of the test in the field of arms safety. This is a very good and welcome reform. I can tell you that I think that was one of the first things in my parliamentary office in spring 2011, when I presented to the then chief of police, Mikko Paatero, that this test, called a block test in the vernacular language, would be dropped. I kept repeating the performance every time I met the chief of police, and I am glad to see that the message has now come through. This is a very good and worthwhile change to previous practice. Not every gun on display. A good change is also that a firearm, an effective air weapon and a piece of a gun acquired from an arms trader should not, as a rule, have to be presented at a police station. A firearm, an effective air gun and a piece of a gun, transferred between individuals, should be presented to the police if the licence to possess the donor had been granted before 2000. In addition, the police could always ask for a performance. As far as I can tell, the majority of arms deals are made in arms stores, through arms stores, so this is a significant reduction in the workload of police officers who inspect arms. An excellent reform. When the roses just came in, then a little bit of ripples. I do not believe that the proposal as such is ready for adoption, but that there is something to be corrected. As the first point to be corrected, I will take this as mentioned by the Minister, to carry out the search. Now let me give you my own interpretation of this matter. Thus, Article 6(1) of the Police Act, Chapter 2, is proposed to be amended so that, in the event of danger and damage, the police officer has the right to enter a space or other place where there is no public access, or where there is no public access to the vehicle, or to conduct a search where there is a reasonable reason to assume — now I have underlined and circled the word ‘assum’ — that the firearms, parts of the weapon, cartridges or particularly dangerous ammunition are misused or the withdrawal of the permit has been initiated. The protection of domestic peace is enshrined in the Constitution and is strong. It's really strong. If the law is implemented in the form now presented, my interpretation would suffice simply to carry out a search for the owner of the gun in the apartment or in the car as a stick horse. In my opinion, this interpretation is extraordinary, since the law on coercive measures mentions the conditions for searching the home where the search is carried out on the property of the suspect, on the car or on any other such place that enjoys the protection of domestic peace. Then there must be a strong suspicion — that is, it is not enough to assume, but to have a strong suspicion — of a crime that has already taken place. Therefore, a change in this law would suffice merely to assume that. At least myself, when I read the bill, I wondered who would assume and on what basis. Is it sufficient to assume, for example, that a dispute between the bordering borders is spreading the smoke of another grill and the delicious smell of meat to a vegan neighbor’s patio? The neighbor calls the emergency center in anger and says he's afraid of his neighbor when he's got those guns. Who will be responsible if the police search the house and find that nothing is left in hand, so the search has been futile? I don't think this untrue ad was made by a neighbor anyway. This may leave the impression that the owner of a firearm is treated as a second-class citizen whose home or vehicle is almost on what basis he wants. I understand the search and inspection very well when the police have a well-founded reason — i.e. a well-founded reason — to assume that someone has an unauthorized firearm, but, in my interpretation, this is once again about to interfere with the legal rights of the owners of authorised firearms, and that is something I find very difficult to accept. I think that we should focus on the holders of illicit firearms and not often and repeatedly blackmail and complicate the lives of licensed gun owners. As a second point, which I am at least wondering about, the proposal proposes that the arms industry should be obliged to report the information it imports, transfers, acquires, manufactures or modifies to the police's weapons information system on the part of the weapon. I've circled the words "part of the weapon" here. The motion clearly speaks of the part of the gun. Many people know that firearms have a lot of parts, some of which are quite small: springs and screws. I wonder how, for example, a twister spring in the firing mechanism of a gun is marked and separated from a thread on the desk of many MPs or the tip of a dry pencil in the hand. Should the gun’s firing mechanism’s twister spring stand the serial number of the gun, and if so, how will it be done? The spring can be really small and thin. I understand very well that the identification is made, for example, in the pipe and the gun-stop device, but not in the fact that every screw or spring in the gun is marked and reported. It seems quite impossible, even as an idea. In my view, it is absolutely essential that attention be paid to this point in the preparation of the committee and that the identification be extended to the barrel and the closure device, not every screw and stitch. Mr President! Last but not least, I raise up the arms collectors. The bill proposes to waive the right of the gun collector to keep a file on the firearms and parts of the gun he acquired instead of applying for a possession licence. The collector should apply for a gun permit for the firearms he has acquired, including those included in the collection plan, effective air weapons and parts of the gun. According to what I know, there are several hundred collectors in our country. I remember sometimes hearing the number about 300, but that's what I remember. Hundreds of gun collectors — and if the bill is carried out in this form, these hundreds of collectors will have to re-apply to the weapons already in their possession and show them to the police station. As a rule, the collector has dozens, some may have hundreds of firearms. When I read the motion, I wondered whether the authors of the bill had wondered what it would cost the collectors to re-licens these weapons, and how much time it would take for the licensing administration to work, for, as I know, one weapon is reserved for about 30 minutes for the licensing administration, and if a person has to present tens or hundreds of weapons, this is an inconceivable situation. I therefore suggest that in the future, the person with the collector status will also retain the right to keep the file on the firearms and air weapons he has acquired and their parts. Mr President! The owners of the firearm are required to be very careful about their behaviour and to have careful, stable lifestyles. In each case, we need to be more precise so that the weapons' possession permits are not revoked. I believe that the owners of the weapon have the right to expect and require the same precision from those who produce legal texts. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u235	Mr President! As Minister Risikko pointed out in this good and comprehensive presentation, this is a worthy government proposal. This may also be reflected in this Chamber debate, because at the moment I do not see any opposition representatives in the Chamber. This reform is therefore based on the 2012 Police Authorisation Management Strategy, which provides for the same development measures for all types of police permits, i.e. clarifying licensing processes,improving the use of electronic communications,releasing the location of residence and reducing unnecessary access. After all, this reform has already been carried out on passports, for example, and for the past year these numbers of people using electronic passports were quite high. It is also a de-standardisation project and a project of personal importance to me, because the first contacts on matters relating to firearms and licence applications were exactly like the wishes of this government’s proposal. Mr President! The Administrative Committee has dealt with matters relating to the arms directives and firearms on several occasions, particularly in the last year's parliament. In our statements, we have raised concerns that at EU level we will understand the special characteristics, the special nature and reliability of Finnish firearms and the specific features of our country, such as the strong role of reservers in defence of the country and the wide range of firearms that have also invested in security, and, for example, the high proportion of gun collectors that have already been heard in this Chamber. Mr President! What is essential for the search and operation of an electronic licence is the electronic application. Is it detailed enough, but clear enough? Of course, these are the role of state ict and the Ministry of Finance, but when it comes to the referral to the Firearms Act, I will also bring it up. The criteria for the granting of firearms will not change in the reform, but the application must be designed and implemented with particular care — both customer-oriented and operator-oriented. Unfortunately, as Mr Kulmala pointed out in his comprehensive speech, there have also been isolated exceptional and unfair refusals to grant a firearms license in Finland, including in connection with hunting activities. I hope that this government proposal will also correct those measures. Then there is this amendment to the law on the law relating to firearms: it is a good thing that this law is now being taken into account and corrected. It is quite unreasonable that the police have not had the authority to execute the temporary takeover required by the Arms Act, even though the same police have been obliged to act under the Firearms Act in that situation — that is, in a situation where there has been a clear, justified reason to suspect that the weapon, its parts, its ammunition or the like is being misused or the withdrawal of the firearms licence is pending. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u236	Mr President! There are many things that are expected and feared in this law. First of all, these positive things, i.e. this interview and aptitude test. It is a good thing that this is changing now, because in those different circles where I have been involved in hunting, it is considered a joke. I'm glad we can change this now and make more sense. This will de-bureaucratise, and then we can concentrate on dealing with the really important issues in the future, i.e. the police can do the work they really need to do. But then this other thing, the taking over of weapons. So let us go to this amendment to Chapter 2 Section 6 of the Police Act, which is exactly what two representatives have already spoken about. As a lawyer, I have experience in a number of divorce cases that have been contacted. Usually, this divorce situation means that there has been a cohabiting couple, where a female person has offended a man in the most difficult way. Especially do we have a lot of men in Lapland who engage in hunting, and the fact that they get into the forest and hunt is often the only essential, important, things they can do in life. So that all it took was for the common-law spouse, who has then left to walk in a dispute, to contact the police that I was at gunpoint. This is unfortunately common, and there have been so many cases that I have personally discussed with people. Usually the guns have been gone for up to a year. In the worst case scenario, it has taken two hunting seasons before this issue has been brought to an end. The fact that the other person is at gunpoint is indeed an important issue, but it should be possible to find out quickly that people will then be able to continue their hobby activities. Then, the essential point is paragraph 6(4), that 'if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the firearms, parts of the weapon, cartridges or particularly dangerous ammunition are being misused'. This is such an open concept that this will change the current legislation, the current practice will really be much more transparent than the previous situation. In particular — and I am speaking from my own practical experience, I have lived and grown much in reindeer circles, there is much talk of predatory matters, and so on — if there is any doubt, or if there is any concern, or if there is any desire to interfere with whether there has been an injury, whether there has been an unjustified killing of predators, then this will be able to catch up immediately and can seriously hamper the work and activities of reindeermen, among other things. I have thought and thought about this, and I believe that even constitutional privacy can be violated here. Let us go beyond the level of the Constitution, and let me make it clear that this law also goes to the Constitutional Committee for an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u237	Mr President! I share Mrs Majala's views on what she said about the withdrawal and withdrawal of weapons possession permits. I know that many times if a person commits a serious DUI even if somewhere in Rovaniemi and he has a firearm or firearms in a secure detention facility in Espoo, even if this gun and the act themselves do not have any causal connection, the police still cancel the possession of the firearms. As a police officer, I understand very well that if a person commits an act of violence or self-destruction or other, then such a person is not right to possess firearms. But if there is no causal connection, I am surprised at the police’s current practice of canceling the possession of the gun. But Mrs Maijala was the last person to say and consider this particular search for a place, whether it is a home, a free-time residence, a car or any other place to which the protection of domestic peace is extended, and she wondered whether this should even be used in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs with an opinion to ensure that fundamental rights of citizens are violated. Mr President! I support the motion made by Mrs Maijala that this should also be sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This would ensure that, when this is otherwise a good law, there are a lot of good elements here that would not now be able to turn down the whole good bill with such a slight casting error.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u238	Mr President! Thank you for these comments, and I personally recognise that there is a lot, a lot of good here, and then from what you have said I understand that you also have criticism. On this issue of arms licensing itself, it is really possible, in that committee hearing, to look more closely at whether there are any details. That's how it always goes, this job. With regard to that suitability assessment, when someone spoke about this suitability, there was such a slight... that 'tests will be stopped': I would simply like to add that the assessment of suitability does not give up, but the way in which it has now been done, just as has been said to be a zero test. I have been around the police departments and I have always asked if you feel this way, and everyone has said that this has nothing to do — and here the policemen are now nodding here in the Chamber. The assessment of suitability will continue, but it will be done in another way, and I claim that even now it will be more effective because... There are arguments to justify that more effectively. Well, then here's the police law. They asked where this came from. I shall give some justification for this, but then I will return to the constitutional issue on which I agree with you very much. First of all, I am justifying this. Thus, the Firearms Act, which is currently in force, says this: "If there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the firearms, parts of the weapon, ammunition or particularly dangerous ammunition are being misused, or if their authorisation has been withdrawn, the police must, without delay, take a decision on the temporary detention of the objects to the police." But now there is no such provision in the Police Act that would give the authority to take over. Here in the Firearms Act, this goes on to say: "The police man must take the gun, the part of the gun, the ammunition and the particularly dangerous ammunition away from the owner if the risk of their misuse is obvious. The police officer shall immediately inform the police department of the place in whose territory the objects were removed from the holder of the goods or the police department of the municipality of residence of the holder of the authorisation. Within 14 days of the removal of objects, the police shall take measures to take a decision to temporarily take possession of the objects or return the removed objects to the holder." So this one's in the Firearms Act. Now, however, we have no mandate in the Police Act, and this has been taken into account by the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman, and he has proposed that this be added to the police law. It has been estimated that this should be done, and it is precisely for this reason that the police do not have the authority to execute the temporary takeover required by the Arms Act. This takeover is now linked to this home, because most of these weapons are being kept in the home of the gun enthusiast, and that is why it is now related to what the representatives have referred to here. When you put it this way, it is specifically related to the firearms law, and then: the current law already allows, if there has been a crime or is an acute situation, that is to say, in this situation, it says: 'although the law requires the police to take action to seize the weapons, the police have no authority to go to the home of the gun owner if there has not been a crime that should be resolved or if there is no acute situation, i.e. an immediate danger of life at hand'. This is precisely the case that, if there is any such suspicion that such a crime could occur, it is thought from the point of view of prevention that the authority required by the Firearms Act should exist. There is a clear contradiction between these two laws. This is where Mr Eerola, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, said that this could not mean that he was swinging with a gun. Well, I'm not going to take a stand on the cause of the swing, but of course you should know if there's a wave of dizziness or what else. But the only thing I noticed was this "whispering with a gun": I'd be scared if someone was waving with a gun. But then I say to Mr Hongisto, as a little bit of a break, that if the smell of the grill is irritated, this certainly does not apply to such situations. This was a bit of a break, and this should not be said, but I did say it anyway, and to all of you who have paid attention here: I agree with you. This is the constitutional question, and I myself think so, now that I am listening to you here too, that it is certainly a good idea for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take a position on this, of course, and it is, of course, a possibility here in the House. But it also occurred to me this evening, when I listened to you too, that it would certainly be a good thing for the committee to hear our rapporteurs and our officials who have prepared us and to ask ourselves, together, whether there is a good point here to look at and only then to put it there in the Constitutional Committee. I am actually offering it here because this is a good thing to look at very carefully. Then, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also good at it, but first let us look at this with our officials, who have considered this thoroughly. I'm offering you this kind of interaction first. But I agree. However, this arms permit law should be put in motion, and this should therefore not slow it down. This can, if necessary, be dealt with as two different issues. But I suggest that the committee and our officials go through this with regard to how to proceed. Good! Thank you very much for these comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u239	Mr President! Here I am going to go back a little bit to my own speech and to this block test. It was rather unusual at the time when I had first spent 27 years as a police officer and in daily dealings with weapons — Smith & Wesson.38 every day with that hip — and then I was elected to the Parliament. Two weeks later, when I applied for a license to obtain a gun from a police station, I was the first person to be put on a block test. I felt very special. I'm glad we're giving this up. As far as I am concerned, if you go to the other end of the scale of the prestigious profession, then that former police officer is a suspicious person. But that's it. Then, Minister, I would ask you that, when these doctors are obliged to report persons who should not be involved in arms, and yet these reports have become as few as mentioned in the news, I think, in about 200 years, is this good practice and is it possible to change this even better? I do not think that this is quite balanced at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-08-ps-3.u240	Mr President! Thanks for the lunch. I am sure that this will also be taken into account in the follow-up to the debate and all of these things that you have discussed and talked about here — well, that is good.
