ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 2/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 31 May 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u2	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u4	With the support of Sirpa Paatero, Mika Kari has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u5	The result of the vote "No" was not signed in.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u6	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u7	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 5/2017 vp. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 5th and 6th issues of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u11	Mr President! The report was well presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma. Indeed, there are no particular points to make with regard to these three institutions. I welcome the fact that once a season, as has been done, staff representatives in these different institutions will also be consulted. Indeed, this working climate is also something to which attention should be paid, as is the case with regard to VTV in that report. The assistant system is a little such an eternity issue here in Parliament, at least it is not at a level that satisfies the assistants. On the other hand, there are many cross-pressures in its development, but it is good that a working group set up by the Secretary-General has been set up and that consideration has been given to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u12	Mr President! In fact, I asked for this intervention, mainly because I would like to thank the Audit Committee for also listening to staff organisations. I think it is very important today that staff are consulted and that overall work satisfaction and well-being can be improved. This must be done everywhere, and I therefore think it is important that Parliament's committee should also take account of this point, so that the representatives of human resources organisations are consulted separately. I regard it as a very modern and forward-looking activity, and I hope that it will be followed up with an open, listening spirit of this kind overall. I also think it is important that this job satisfaction is specifically mentioned here. I also think it was a valuable record that the committee also draws attention to the fact that, of course, public feedback will also be taken into account when it comes to this Institute for Foreign Policy. I think that is quite clear and important, and that is a good thing. So I think the committee has done a good job here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u13	Mr President! In this context, when the reports on the activities of these institutions are also under discussion, I would have drawn attention to the work of the Institute for Foreign Policy, mainly to the need that we will also have as a Parliament, to support such a think tank and research institute, but also to gain valuable information and ideas from it. I am thinking now of all the needs relating to the future policy on Russia and perhaps the resolution of the crisis in the Crimea in Ukraine, which we parliamentarians will then have to deal with in the OSCE delegation or in the Council of Europe delegation. It would be very important for the Institute for Foreign Policy to be able here to support this work of parliamentarians and perhaps to create ideas and views on this. Secondly, of course, all that is happening now in Europe, a certain form of reorganisation and the development of European institutions once again. We need a Finnish think tank, which also produces ideas and ideas for us parliamentarians. In this respect, the expectations are very high with regard to the Institute for Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u14	Mr President! It was very good that attention was also paid here to these matters of assistants and how to make the work more meaningful and to make it more comfortable. Now I'm going to bring it up. It may not be desirable for this House to talk about it, but I will. What is very unfortunate is that there have been such things as bullying at work, which has become so serious that there is a police investigation into it. Parliament as a workplace is one that must definitely be a place of peace. It is our job to keep this job in such a way that everyone here is able to work, that no one has to go on sick leave because they are being bullied at the workplace and that they cannot be at the workplace. This is a very bad thing, and I know that I am now being told that these things should not be discussed here, but I think that we should talk about them. Every case of bullying must be brought up, and every bully must be discussed, which is why he does what he does. In addition to that, it is also our job to support the tempted party, to support the assignment he has been granted and to do. I am very pleased that Mr Heinäluoma, when he presented his paper, also spoke about these general issues of working environment. These are very important issues. We can influence them. This mental health and safety came into the labour law too, but it came in the mid-80s, and it may be worth raising again to make it peaceful for us to work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u15	Mr President! Parliament is an excellent place to do important work. There are enormously skilled, helpful, polite, well-committed staff and highly motivated staff in terms of work, staff representatives helping to do their important job. The officials of Parliament and the staff of the whole Parliament have earned all their thanks. One thing that I have drawn attention to, however, is that when I read some sort of explanation of the assistants' working environment and the things they have experienced, at least the fact that the assistants could not understand why they have longer working hours than other officials and staff working in Parliament. I have to say, I don't understand either. In other words, the assistants have normal working hours, the office hours that the state and municipalities observe, but the other parliamentary staff have shorter working hours. We remember the times when in the Parliamentary Ombudsman's office the working hours were 6 hours, even though the salary was paid for a normal working day. I don't know what's working there today. But if anyone can explain to me why, in Parliament, assistants are in the normal public sector, state and local government hours and why other parliamentary employees, officials, staff, staff are in the shorter working hours, however, receiving full pay for their work, I am happy to listen to the explanation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u16	Mr President! As a member of the Board of Directors of the Institute for Foreign Policy, I would like to comment on the report and the activities of the Institute for Foreign Policy. As a member of the Board of Directors, it was able to read the activity report with joy. The activities have been strong, comprehensive and also very profound, which supports, as is the case with the support of the Institute, the decision-making of Parliament with the knowledge that the Institute produces. With reference to this good speech by Mr Haavisto: now that you look at the world situation at the moment, it is fine and justified that we have a body like the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy that produces important and good information for us to use, for us Finnish decision-makers and for our society as a whole. In particular, considering this Paris climate agreement and how the United States, the Trump administration, is now working with it, i.e. breaking away from it, we also need more understanding of the direction in which a major player such as the United States is currently going. Fortunately, even before this situation. The Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs has put more resources in place and has focused its efforts on investigating the political situation and developments in the United States. It is very valuable that it has already been done in the front row, so to speak. The second is, of course, Russia's research, which for Finland, as a neighbouring country of Russia, is always important, but especially in this world political situation. Fortunately, the Institute has also invested heavily in it. I believe that with this report we can look at 2016 with satisfaction, but as a member of the Board of Directors I know that we can look at 2017 with the same satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u17	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman and vice-chairman of the Audit Committee for their good speeches and others. Indeed, these representatives of staff organisations have been consulted there, and I personally would like to see attention paid to the fact that this system of assistants as a whole is also being considered, because now we have quite a variety of assistants and they have quite a variety of job descriptions. What I am thinking here is that if an assistant has a job, you could say, perhaps more demanding than another assistant, then you could imagine that the salary is also slightly different. That we should really think about these things. It is a modern age, so it is done in every workplace, that different jobs are evaluated and paid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u18	Mr President! First of all, I would have agreed with what Mr Simon Elo has to say. For example, there is a real need for new thinking on matters relating to the Paris climate agreement and its future. For example, the question of cooperation between the European Union and China on climate issues from now on is one that also requires reflection on what are the interests of China, what are the interests of the European Union and what can be done together. This is an example of what we need. This kind of exchange of researchers, which the Institute for Foreign Policy has also had, of course, that foreign researchers, European researchers and, hopefully, we are leaving elsewhere, is also extremely important in this particular situation, and resources must be earmarked for it. I would also like to welcome with pleasure this second aspect of the debate, which has been the hearing of parliamentary staff, the hearing of assistants. Sometimes my ear has come to the conclusion that people here are treated a little by two-storey people, for example, when they use recreational facilities, and I find this unacceptable at all. We all have to be on the same page.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u19	Mr President! For my part, too, I would have liked to thank the Institute for Foreign Policy for its work. In my opinion, it is an excellent thing that we have such a research institute, which independently conducts both different studies and actual research, organises a wide range of topical seminars and other events. We are talking a lot these days, quite rightly, about the independence of public radio journalism, the safeguarding of it. It is a very important subject. Although the Institute for Foreign Policy is not about journalism and is not a watchdog of power in the same way, in the same way I feel that it is also about As far as the Institute for Foreign Policy is concerned, we should look at matters independently, carry out our own studies independently. In public debate, we can, of course, agree with or disagree with their conclusions or with the views of some researcher, but we should not seek politically to constrain the freedom of study of the Institute for Foreign Policy. Now to this question, which I raised now, while the chairman of the committee still has the floor. I would really like to hear why in Parliament only assistants have the working hours that all the other public sectors have and why others have shorter working hours. If there are good excuses, that's good. If there are no good enough explanations, then I think that the Bureau and the Commission, which, on behalf of the taxpayer, is responsible for these matters of working conditions in this House, should take this issue of working time on its own agenda and seek a solution here that is similar to that found elsewhere in the state administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u20	Mr President! Thank you for the speeches so far. First of all, this assistant system. After all, this system of assistants has now also been passed through the Committee on Audit, also listening to the assistants and other contributions made to it, and the conclusion that the committee had precisely this in mind was that there is a need to have a debate and a study not on individual issues, but on the functioning of the whole system of assistants, and then all possible matters relating to assistants are involved. The big question then is that once this group office model has been introduced, it is worth reporting on the experiences of the groups that have adopted it and then considering whether some of these problems relating to the current system of assistants are those that are better resolved in this group office model. This system of assistants working in connection with the Parliamentary Office is difficult, because it actually involves not only the management of work, but also all kinds of guidance for an individual MP, and then the possibility for the Parliamentary Office to act as an employer is very remote and comes up mainly in a situation where there are serious problems, such as bullying or some major disagreements or distrust here, and then, at best, they have even led to termination of employment and then, unfortunately, to legal cases. And it has been a very bad thing that, last season, there was also a judgment against Parliament in these cases. There are not very many such things that Parliament, as an employer, receives a judgment on wrong behaviour in circumstances where the Parliament's office, which is responsible for the employer's activities, is so far from the relationship between the MP and the assistant, and it is difficult for the Parliamentary office to say what has happened. As far as bullying is concerned, the clear policy of Parliament is that there is zero tolerance and that everyone must be tackled. And in this respect, we must also be able to talk about them here, that is, when Mr Tolppanen wondered if we could speak here, of course we can. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u23	Mr President! With regard to what Mr Heinäluoma said last time: in connection with the operation of UPI, it has, quite rightly, also been necessary to take account of the public assessment and feedback that has been given, for example, in the columns of magazines. I recognize myself from it, and I justify why I have taken such a critical assessment. I am not an expert in Russia and even less an expert in Ukraine, but I have partly tried to study these issues in relation to the distribution of seats. I can say on my own behalf that I have not received any assistance from the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, from research activities in that respect. Yle and UPI are two completely different organisations. And if you think of UPI, it should be possible for its researchers to produce as valuable, critical research as possible. And as for the follow-up assessment and think about this kind of sincere question: what added value have other MPs, political decision-makers received from the Institute for Foreign Policy in Russia and Ukraine reporting? I haven't had that help. Much more I have benefited, for example, from a single book, it is this work of the University of Kent Richard Sakwan Ukraine Battle from Ukraine. By reading that book alone, I have been able to deepen my own analysis more than the studies of the Institute for Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-02-ps-63.u24	Mr President! To conclude: I do not know how to answer Mr Mustajärvi's questions about Ukraine, but I just think it is worth saying a little hello to you at the end. When I came to this session, I had to leave for an occasion where American senators were present as a guest of the Finnish Parliament. We were there with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen. They asked to convey the expressions of appreciation and their best greetings to the Finnish Parliament, its plenary session. Now that I have done for all of you, I wish you a good weekend.
