ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 22 September 2017. The debate will continue at a rapid pace. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, a discussion on matters of the agenda is allowed 3. — 19. Under the programme, the first speaker is Minister Soini. Seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u2	Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy aims to strengthen our country's international position, secure independence and territorial integrity, and improve the safety and well-being of Finns. The Government will present a total of EUR 1092 million to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ administrative branch in the draft budget 2018. Through the appropriations, Finland promotes international stability, peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality. The operational priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are strengthening the stability of the Baltic Sea, intensifying foreign policy cooperation between Finland and Sweden, Arctic policy, strengthening transatlantic cooperation and mediation. The current operating environment is characterised by the speed and unpredictability of changes. Migration, the weakened security situation in Europe and the Baltic Sea, the increased threat of terrorism, the globalisation of the economy, the threat of world trade turning inwards, climate change and the continuing high level of poverty in the various regions of the world affect our activities and should be taken into account in our measures. EUR 218.6 million is proposed for the operating expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration, which is approximately EUR 1.8 million less than in the draft budget for 2017. The emphasis is on countries whose political and economic importance for Finland is increasing. They also take into account the opportunities for cooperation with the Nordic, Baltic and EU External Action Service (EEAS) and the Team Finland model. The role of delegations in promoting exports will be strengthened in close cooperation with the future Business Finland organisation. Civil services provided by the Foreign Service will be developed taking into account changes to the Consular Services Act and the Government's asylum policy action programme. Local visa processing processes are being extended not only to Russia but also to China. Finland will chair the Arctic Council in 2017-2019 and the Council of Europe in 2018-2019. During 2018, preparations will also be made for the Finnish Presidency of the European Union in 2019 and the 100th anniversary of the Finnish Foreign Service. Mr President! The importance of crisis management is emphasised by the growing challenges of refugees, uncontrolled migration, radicalisation and terrorism. It is in Finland’s interest to participate in the fight against terrorism. Through crisis management, as part of other activities in Finland, efforts are being made to stabilise weak countries and create better living conditions for people's lives. Crisis management also contributes to the development of national defence. EUR 52.6 million is proposed for the maintenance costs of Finnish crisis management forces. EUR 15.4 million is proposed for the participation of civilian personnel in crisis management, of which EUR 500000 is allocated to mediation. The largest crisis management operations are the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, the Iraqi Training Mission and the Resolute Support operation in Afghanistan, but Finland also participates in the operations in Kosovo, the Mediterranean region and Africa. Most of Finland’s civilian crisis management participation is directed towards EU operations. The number of personnel employed in military crisis management and civilian crisis management tasks is estimated to be around 640 in 2018. Mr President! Development cooperation expenditure is estimated to amount to a total of EUR 886.3 million in 2018, which, according to current forecasts, represents approximately 0.38% of gross national income. Mr Mykkänen will explain in more detail the content and priorities regarding the issues and questions in this area. With regard to the other appropriations, I would like to highlight these: EUR 1.8 million is proposed for cooperation between the Baltic Sea, Barents and the Arctic region, and the emphasis is placed on projects supporting the Chairmanship of the Finnish Arctic Council 2017-2019. EUR 90 million is proposed for membership fees and contributions. Most of the appropriation is allocated to Finland's contributions to the UN. Mr President! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ administrative sector is estimated to generate EUR 33.9 million in revenue not included in its operating expenditure. Revenues are generated, inter alia, by visa processing fees, real estate sales revenue and reimbursements of membership fees and contributions of international organisations and development aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u3	Next, Minister Mykkänen, seven minutes, followed by a debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u4	Mr President! I will also start with development issues. From the budgetary point of view, of course, they are the most important part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration. First of all, I would like to say that, in terms of scale, we can see that, of the approximately EUR 540 million that taxpayers spend on development cooperation each year, the largest blocks will be practically EUR 170 million for next year's multilateral development cooperation, i.e. through the UN-World Bank, a little less than EUR 135 million for country and regional development cooperation, i.e. our ten countries of the bilateral indicative programme, plus the regional programmes of Central Asia, Ukraine, the Middle East, and then some EUR 70 million for humanitarian aid, i.e. sudden crises, even this week, we made a quick decision on less than half a million euro for SPR in the form of a field hospital in Myanmar, practically in Bangladesh, to help the Rohingya minority — and then on the whole category of humanitarian aid, about EUR 65 million for next year's organisations, most of which, EUR 50 million for programme support organisations, about 20 long-term partners, and the remaining EUR 15 million for project support. These four are the main blocks. In addition, next year, the European Development Fund will run an estimated EUR 56 million, which together we will try to guard. In addition, the EU budget's membership fees also go almost as far as EU development aid, which means that the EU's share is, say, EUR 1 through the EU, less than EUR 5 through national measures. That's the ratio in this respect. The amount of EUR 30 million goes to non-national development cooperation, with our partnership programme for companies, organisations, universities, developing countries and some specific measures. In addition to this, there is an interest-bearing loan instrument of around EUR 13 million, which also includes a new public investment support instrument. The total amount of these will then be approximately EUR 543 million. As far as the overall level of development cooperation is concerned, the budget for next year is now well over EUR 10 million higher than this year, i.e. an increase of about 2 %. If you compare the year 2018 to last year, or 2016, then you will already have an increase of EUR 40 million. Of course, it has to be said that comparisons are not quite as simple as that, because there is a lot of transfer appropriations in development cooperation and their amount varies in practice downwards. Now that we come from the fattest years, three to four years ago, there is less and less carry-overs coming up here. But at the overall level, the solutions taken first in the spring spending limits debate and now in particular in the budget debate will ensure that we are on a growing career in euros and that we are able to launch new operations on this gift money side as well. With regard to the priorities: firstly, I think it is very important that we focus effectively. This means choosing the things in which Finnish development cooperation expertise can deliver the best results, and now four out of five euros pass through our four priorities: women and girls, jobs and livelihoods, democracy and the functioning of governance, including the ability to tax and sustainable use of natural resources, in particular water and food security. First priority, we really do have the status of girls and women. Today was the last good opportunity for the parliamentary population group to talk about it and, fortunately, for the work on gender equality, as has been printed in the budget book, we are also able to raise the proportion of the old one. It will rise to about 35% in our ODA, the whole development pot, which is therefore not managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will be directing 50 per cent of the actual development cooperation pot directed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this whole pot, to work on gender equality next year, in other words, we will make a special effort to do so. We feel that it is the number one thing for Finland and, in fact, the more you get to know it, the number one thing in many ways also in terms of increasing knowledge, girls are allowed to drop out of school normally and not stop because of the pregnancy, developing countries get the skills and talent of their entire people and so on, so it's the number one choice with all the indicators in mind. The proportion of the poorest countries, the so-called LDC countries, is often asked. Their share of our development funds is on a slight increase and their share of GDP will remain about the same next year compared to this year. The share of GDP in development cooperation as a whole will fall slightly, from 0.39 to 0.38, despite the additions in euros, because GDP growth forecast for next year is fairly high at the moment. Of course, it is not just money that matters, and in this respect too, for example, last week we worked with the Foreign Minister and the President of the Republic to ensure that the rights of girls and women, especially within the framework of the UN, are reflected. Personally, I am currently the so-called leading torch bearer in the She Decides group, which we established in Europe six months ago — and we raised some EUR 200 million for reproductive and sexual health and justice work — and which has now expanded into a global movement. I was sitting next to the South African Minister of Health when I was holding that meeting exactly a week ago. One positive thing is also mentioned here. We now have very advanced negotiations for a UN technology and innovation laboratory in Helsinki, which has also been provided for in the budget with a budget of EUR 2.5 million, and it would hopefully be a channel for making Finnish innovations available to the UN in particular. With regard to the promotion of exports, briefly, the new model that we will push in next year is that ambassadors will take the role of country leader more strongly also in relation to the old Finpro and Tekes people in the world when they merge into Business Finland. That's where we have a lot of opportunities. A new set of operating models
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u5	It is now possible to use replies on this subject. I'd like to request representatives to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u6	Mr President! Over the past few years, the Foreign Affairs Administration has been subjected to the same cuts as others. However, I think it is very successful how the situation has been managed, as it were, with less resources. I would like to highlight a few points in particular. The gradual elimination of the spiral of reduction of the Embassies network is an important factor. The budgetary guidelines for helping export promotion through the Embassy Network are also of the utmost importance. The cuts in development aid have, of course, been a source of pain for all of us, but the fact that the government has courageously also introduced private investment in concrete projects is an important direction. In fact, that way we can achieve much more material results, and I would like to see, in a few years' time, what kind of investment has been made. However, this is perhaps the main direction in Africa's development. We need European, American and Chinese private capital.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u7	Mr President! In international politics, the atmosphere has become tense and uncertainty has increased. We now need Finland to play an active role, we need to defend multilateral cooperation, and here, of course, the United Nations, the UN, and the European Union are the key players. The European Union is currently preparing with the African Union for the summit which will take place at the end of November. The main theme of the meeting is youth employment, which is an important theme in terms of the population structure in Africa. Young people under the age of 25 are about half the population of Africa, with a total population of 1.2 billion people. I think it would be great if Finland could include a youth delegation in its own delegation. It would be in the spirit of the Youth Act and would also raise the profile of young people — and Finland’s profile in the implementation of UN Resolution 2250. It is, of course, regrettable that, at the same time, Finland is cutting back on development cooperation appropriations, because it is development cooperation that is able to address root causes, i.e. promoting youth employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u8	Madam President! There is now a new shift within the European Union and plans to see what the European Union will be like in the future. I ask Minister Soin: What general guidelines does Finland now have in view of this debate? Are there also countries that are our allies in this debate? Where are the main priorities at the moment in Finland's preparation? My question to Mr Mykkäs is: how do you see that Finnfund's funding can be secured in the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u9	Madam President! While you, Mr Soini, were still party leader — while you still had a party —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u10	Mr President! Last week we were talking here about defence funds and preparedness, and more resources have been made available to them. But the other side of the matter — making it possible to prevent conflicts, resolving conflicts — has remained in a worse state in Finland’s foreign and security policy, mainly due to resource cuts. This leads to the question: how has the government now considered and formulated a strategy, a vision of how to proceed with the Finnish measures, for example, in terms of promoting disarmament and the dismantling of armed tensions? These are issues in which we have missed more initiative and activity from Finland as well. And when a lot of good is done in development cooperation and priorities are highlighted and added, it happens in a situation where at the same time you have to go elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u11	Mr President! First of all, I would like to warmly support Mr Urpilainen's presentation of the Youth Delegate to the EU-Africa Summit. It is an excellent idea, and since the meeting deals specifically with youth unemployment, Finland could indeed set an example here. In recent weeks we have read disturbing news about Myanmar, where ethnic cleansing is taking place. I would have liked to have heard what the Foreign Minister thinks of the situation in Myanmar, but there is also another crisis point, Venezuela, whose democracy is completely falling apart. These two parties are particularly concerned right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u12	Mr President! Minister Soini, you mentioned that peace and security are central objectives of Finland's foreign policy, and many Finns are following the heart of the North Korean crisis today. It involves the uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons. In the UN too, a number of countries, more than 122 countries, have taken the initiative to ban nuclear weapons. Finland is leading a group of friends in mediation at the UN. I am sure that you have discussed with the high authorities at the UN what could be done in the situation in North Korea. Could the U.N. be of any help in this noseball? Mr Mykkänen, you mentioned very good priorities in development cooperation, but you mentioned the unfortunate fact that the GDP share of development cooperation is falling. What can we do about this? What is your plan for us to be able to join the Like-Minded countries, level 0.7?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u13	Mr President! Development cooperation in the form of loans also plays a very important role today in bringing the poor and fragile countries on their feet. It is quite clear that without private money flows we will not be able to meet the objectives and challenges of Agenda 2030. There is a huge need for new, decent jobs. It is precisely the developing countries and the poor, fragile countries that need to be strengthened. It also requires, among other things, development funder Finnfundi, whose projects are mostly climate and energy projects. But I'd like to ask you a more specific question, Minister. I hope it will succeed, and I understand that the priorities would be education, health, circular economy and cleantech, peace and security. If you could open up a little bit, what will be done about this innovation campus in these regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u14	Mr President! According to a recent opinion poll, 85 per cent of Finns consider development cooperation important. More would also be prepared to raise the level of development cooperation. However, the trend in the budget book is the opposite, and this applies particularly to UN agencies, of which Finland cuts up to 80% of grants: over 90% from UNDP, 65% from UNICEF. It is good that the first priority is the government of girls and women, but even in this sense the curves point down. In a few years, the grant to this person has fallen by more than 40%. It is a good thing that the government has this stated-out goal of reaching 0.7% in the long term, but, as we heard, next year the level will be 0.38. Fortunately, GDP is growing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u15	Mr President! Of course, development cooperation money must be in proportion to the situation and the ability of the nation to pay, and, as Mrs Judgments said, it is always out of place. We've been asking a lot of questions about Finnfund. On 6.9.2017 I looked at the news where Finnwatch, a non-governmental organisation that evaluates global impacts like this, has found that Finnfund's certain investments are questionable — invested in fossil fuel-producing companies, meat production, private schools and such Western perfume, jewellery companies — and according to research, services are targeted at the rich population of developing countries and Western countries. At some point Mr Mykkänen has replied that this would not be the case, but here the Executive Director says that only 16% of cases are in poor countries. How, Minister, will you respond to your monitoring of this development cooperation money?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u16	Madam President! The cuts to development cooperation appropriations are extremely regrettable, particularly when they target ideological NGOs, who are working very long-term and who are trying to influence the well-being of the whole community there. Furthermore, the government's policy of cutting is also remarkable in the sense that it is precisely the causes of migration that can be influenced by the funds, and then, among other things, by the aid of disasters, that those refugee camps should be kept in a more or less decent state. I would have asked, therefore, when citizens have the great will to help those in need, whether it would be possible to consider once again considering this right to tax deduction, namely that it would be possible to support these NGOs through a tax deduction. This, I think, was on the table during the 2011 government negotiations, some sort of quick check, but it was then buried. Time has changed since then. Could it be?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u19	Mr President! Two questions to Mr Soin: The first is based on this changed security environment in many ways. The basic question is: does the Minister consider that the current preparation of Finland's own political and civil servants is one of these, in view of the threats of widespread security, that there might not be a need to set up a certain type of Security Council in Finland under the leadership of the President of the Republic? The second question, from North Korea: we know the nature of its debate, it does not need to be referred to. We know that the UN has acted in accordance with its own resources on political realities, but does Minister Soini believe that it would be possible to manage the peace mediation project through the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u20	Mr President! I support that good initiative by Mr Urpilainen to include the youth delegation at the African Union-European Union Summit. It's a very good and correct signal. Mr President! Yesterday I met a fellow party leader, Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. We discussed the common challenges facing the European Union for the future. Yes, the big challenge is that, south of the European Union, if you think geographically in Africa, the population will grow to 2.5 billion by 2050, that is to say double, and half the population will be under 25 years of age. According to some calculations, 18 million new jobs per year are needed to give these people a view of the future. In that debate, the idea arose as to whether it would make sense now to join forces between the Member States of the European Union. Now roughly one-fifth is being used together, through the EU, and four-fifths will then be used separately for development aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u21	Mr President! International military exercises will always have a foreign policy dimension, and a specific criterion has been set for this, how these exercises will be assessed when there is something completely new or particularly heavy in terms of foreign policy. Several Finnish politicians have expressed their desire that Finland should also accelerate sabering on its own soil and organise major military exercises in Finland. We all remember that at the Rissala air battle exercise, the American National Guard invited itself and the American leader of the Hankonieme landing exercise said that we are here to show strength. How do you, Mr Soini, assess how such action is in line with the stability policy of the Baltic Sea promoted by the President of the Republic, Niinistö, when I understand that, on the contrary, the President of the Republic's will is to curb such an excessive international force?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u22	Mr President! Minister Soini, you referred to the speed and unpredictability of changes in the security environment and in the world as a whole. After all, we are living in a very eventful and unpredictable time and, in fact, this time is constantly testing, every single day and hour, our foreign policy, its mission and its ability to function. Now that you have been in an important foreign minister's seat for the third year, you are also a skilled wordsmith, so could you briefly, on the basis of these experiences, crystallize Finland's foreign policy concept today, without succumbing to liturgical explanations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u23	Mr President! First of all, in my speech, I would like to thank Minister Silky for the fact that he has repeatedly and several times raised the issue of girls and women, sexual and reproductive health issues and legal issues. It is extremely valuable and important to talk about it in terms of reality. It is also important because studies also prove that these are the very elements that will bring about the long-term and good development. At the same time, of course, when we start to mirror it in terms of funding and this 0.7 objective and how far away we are from it, that contradiction is very obvious. It is also sad from the point of view that, last week, when we talked here about Agenda 2030 and its objectives and we were eager for a historic moment in which we can change the direction of the world, this development from a financial point of view does not support the momentum that we also have at hand. The financing of the private sector is what gives rise to most distrust, and I would like to hear the Minister's views on it: How to reach the most vulnerable of all: girls and women? How to import there
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u24	Värderade fru talman! Finlands bistånd ligger långt effecter den målsättning på 0,7 % av bnp som vi borde försöka uppnå. Det är bra att regeringen ätter till lite, men det är långt, långt ifrån tillräckligt, och vi är ästlängder effecter den nivå som vi var på 2015. Vad är regeringens konkreta plan för att öka biståndet? Hur ska vi vara en trovärdig part i internationella sammanhang om vi inte på riktigt försöker efftersträva det rai målet inom en rimlig tid?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u25	Mr President! Last week, the UN General Assembly saw a very rare presentation in which two UN Member States publicly threatened each other with warfare and the destruction of another country, involving the United States and North Korea. Both countries are nuclear countries, one officially and the other de facto. This debate has gone to extremes for a very short time. It can be said that for the first time we are close to a situation in which nuclear weapons states are publicly on the brink of war. This is particularly alarming, the impact extends to the lives and security of millions of people, and to the whole of mankind. What will Finland do to stop using nuclear weapons as a means of resolving conflicts? And especially, do we have a role to play in calming the situation in North Korea?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u26	Mr President! Knowing that the majority of asylum seekers who come to Finland are from Iraq, it is quite justified that Finland has been strongly involved in the Iraqi training operation, and I think it is very important in that respect. I would like to hear from the minister concerned: how do you see the situation in Iraq now that Isis has been forced to withdraw from many areas and the future of this training mission, the role of Finland, in it. Another question related to the fact that the government is actively seeking the establishment of a UN innovation campus in my home city of Espoo and Otaniemi and is preparing to support campus activities over the next two years with EUR 2.5 million: what is the timetable for this application process, and what is expected of Finland and Espoo in addition to the funding that is now being shared? Of course, when I am from Espoo, I ask: how do you assess the benefits for Otaniemi in Espoo?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u27	Mr President! Mr Wallin and Mr Henriksson pointed out the importance of no further cuts in development cooperation, and I am in exactly the same line myself. Finland’s main country partners are largely African countries, where child marriages, among others, are very common. I would like to ask Mr Mykkäs: how do you consider it possible that funding is linked in a way to the extent to which the problem of children's marriage in these countries and the situation of children in general, and girls in particular, can be improved? Then the second question relates to this Business Finland: Apparently, the ambassadors’ role in promoting exports and as country leaders is being increased. I am a little concerned about this — although, on the other hand, it certainly contains good ideas — because not all ambassadors are commercial persons. How will this division of labour be resolved in these countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u28	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u29	Mr President! Let us start with Mr Urpilainen, who is now specialising in mediation on a good quality, opened up by Mr Haavisto — this is a way of cooperating across party boundaries, without having a narrow look at group interests. It is very important that we are active in mediation, and I am open to this idea of youth delegation. We must also be involved in promoting the cause of women and young people, especially in mediation, because these are the groups of people most affected by these conflicts in general. Then, on behalf of the Vice-President, Mr Salolainen. Yes, this permanent structured cooperation is important, and one big strategic issue is keeping Britain as close to the European Union as possible in the field of foreign and security policy when Brexit comes to fruition, because Britain is currently the most capable country in the European Union. Then the representative of the Judgments spoke of influence. That is right, Finland has numerous coalitions and partnerships. Amongst other good initiatives are the Baltic Sea air safety initiative that the President has presented, the black coal always comes up in our discussions, the Arctic Council's own agenda, most recently President Tarja Halonen has been appointed to a high peace panel, so on. We also drive Finnish people strongly into international tasks. I'm always happy to do that across party lines. From Myanmar: it is regrettable that the former freedom fighter is now sitting in the throttle of his hands when people are being killed and persecuted. As far as Catalonia and Scotland and others are concerned, each country decides independently on these matters, Finland does not go there to guide them. Then to Mr Kanerva: a wide-ranging debate on security policy will take place. We have now had a report on foreign and security policy, defence policy and internal security. I don't need new institutions right away. Then this P5 peace process and North Korea, to which reference was made, including Mr Heinäluoma. This is extremely serious and we are involved in these discussions. Fortunately, we have good relations with Sweden, among others, which is now a member of the Security Council and with which we can obtain information and consult. Sweden also has a delegation in North Korea, Romania, Bulgaria and others, and it is important to be involved in this. This is very dangerous, as Mr Heinäluoma said. I don't mean to scare you, but I don't think this is the way it is. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u30	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u31	Mr President! First of all, representatives of Vanhanen, Salolainen and Meri referred to Finnfund and other forms of investment financing. Since 2012, Finnfund has not financed any projects that rely on fossil energy. It is then a matter of value that, for example, all projects involving agriculture and food, where investments are supported if they involve goats or chickens, are listed in the Finnwatch report as wrong measures for meat products and so on. In the last year, with the capitalisation of EUR 200 million, Finnfund has made new financing decisions, more than half of them are for climate finance. We have large solar and wind farms and so on, and three quarters, Mr Meri, are precisely the poorest and lower middle income countries. So there are quite a lot of aggravations in this report by Finnwatch, which I personally appreciate. In fact, I would see, as Mr Salolainen and Mr Vanhanen have pointed out here, that we actually have a considerable amount of leverage on important issues, such as access to clean energy and hence to development in the poorest countries, precisely through these projects. This new form of interest subsidy loan has already created a project pipeline of EUR 400 million in the first application, which means that there is always at least one third of Finnish value added involved and the public sector project in the developing country on the other. Representatives Paloniemi and Elo referred to the United Nations Innovation Laboratory (UNTIL). In this regard, we went through this last week with the Deputy Secretary-General for the UN Administration, and we are now very far along. Legally, this is a complex process within the UN, but we are trying to conclude this autumn. I'm not going to lick you till I drop. Sectors: When Finland’s strengths are that we have good education and skills exports to developing countries, that we have excellent health actors, circular economy, cleantech actors, how we get these innovations into UN procurement, UN systems, their programmes, is the core of this. Of course, representatives of Wallin, Haavisto and others called for a long-term programme for the share of gross national income in development cooperation here. I think one thing that is quite clear is that we must now allow GDP to grow several years faster than our public spending, so that we can control Finland’s debt — unfortunately, the country will also spend more than it will make in the next few years — and then we will probably be able to achieve more significant increases in development cooperation. That's how it went after the last recession in the '90s. But surely this will be one of the questions of the next government negotiations, especially if good economic development continues. Representative Toivola was very supportive of the issues of girls and women and sexual and reproductive health and asked about them. We will also have measures planned in the form of investment for the capitalisation of next year, such as the Women's Entrepreneurship Fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u32	There's still time for one more debatable tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u33	Mr President! The minister here said about the Business Finland project and the role of Finnvera and Finpro. After all, during the last parliamentary term, 150 export ombudsmen were terminated in this project. That's a hell of a lot of expertise right now. I very much hope that now that we are building Business Finland, it will be taken into account that it is precisely the export industry, because Finland is an export dependent country. It is good that resources are being combined, but the combination must take place in a way that will then result in a better outcome from the point of view of export countries and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u34	Mr President! Development cooperation, crisis management and cost-effective mediation — they really affect people’s living conditions so that they do not have to leave their country of origin. Thank you to the government for your efforts in these matters. Recently, there has been another talk in Finland about female genital mutilation. Let's talk about how to bring those responsible to justice. I would like to say that with civilian crisis management, however, we can contribute to the failure to follow that inhumane, painful and life-threatening habit again. For example, when I was in our region of Darfur as the UN Police Commissioner and was leading campaigns against female genital mutilation, the most impressive thing really was that we first had long discussions with tribal leaders and talked them into speaking to their communities against this repulsive practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u35	Mr President! I will return to this matter of Korea, on which the Minister said in his reply that, of all the threats that have been addressed here, this is the most pressing problem at the moment, the consequences of which can be terrible. So far, since Nagasaki and Hiroshima have not used nuclear weapons and now this risk is a genuine one, the central issue of our foreign policy is how we can contribute as part of the international community so that the use of nuclear weapons as a means of resolving military conflicts and conflicts in general is not accepted. This would perhaps require a clear statement from the government. I agree that it would be good to go through this decision-making system with regard to Finland's foreign policy in peace, at a peaceful time. When more speeches have been made publicly on this initiative of the Security Council to which Mr Kanerva referred, it would be good if this issue could also be dealt with between the Government and Parliament and not just in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u36	Mr President! Very few nations would ever have become independent if it had been dependent on the desires of the host country. Support from other countries is also needed in the process of independence. Does Finland support Catalonia’s independence efforts? Then there is the second point about this development aid: Everybody knows a lot of it goes to waste, but nobody really knows which part. Would it be possible to make a better analysis of this so that in proportion, the amount of money would bring the effectiveness of what it is seeking? Finland is training military forces in Iraq. We are not going to find ourselves in a situation where Finland trains the opposite parties at the same time, because now there is a threat of that happening?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u37	Mr President! Finland’s development funding is assessed and evaluated very carefully in many ways, especially this so-called traditional gift-based development funding. Unfortunately, however, it is precisely this funding that has been cut very much, up to 40%, at the start of the government, and in particular the most effective of all, i.e. the financing of development cooperation by NGOs, which, according to the evaluation reports, is the most cost-effective and effective of all development cooperation. Mr President! The Government says that the target is 0.7 per cent of GDP, but it is far and further away from it next year. It's weird to say at a bad time that you can't afford 0.7, and at a good time you say you can't afford 0.7. When can we afford it? I think that's a matter of value. But, Mr President, I would also like to thank Minister Silently for the important emphasis on women and girls.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u38	Mr President! Peace mediation is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Finland implements and finances projects supporting mediation and invests in strengthening national expertise. Minister Soini, you spoke last week at the United Nations General Assembly in New York about the role of women as peacekeepers and the fact that we have much to offer in Finland on this issue. What kind of reception did the emphasis on women's role in peace-keeping missions come to, and how can Finland contribute to strengthening women's role in conflict prevention, peace-keeping and peace-building?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u39	Mr President! I had not asked to speak, but perhaps I can use it anyway. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u40	Mr President! Finland is committed to the 2030 Agenda objectives, and the Minister is already well aware that the appropriations now being proposed, this level, are not sufficient to achieve these objectives. I would like to ask: when will this game become so honest as to talk about the right things and the real adequacy of the budget? Then to this financial investment by Finnfund, which is, as it were, outside the spending limits. I would now ask: is there a ministry like two separate safes, one of which is like a normal budget safe and the other is like a virtual cash safe, from which Finnfund gets this money outside everything? This would be good for the public to know where this Finnfund money actually comes from, when the minister here many times says that this does not affect the budgetary framework in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u41	Mr President! 3 minutes is a short time, I know that from experience, and that is why I want to give Mr Mykkänen and Mr Soin another chance to tell us about the path, the vision that Finland will at some point achieve the 0.7% GDP target set by the UN, even in a situation where, fortunately, GDP is now starting to grow. At the same time, I would also like to ask how this first priority — women and children, girls — is reflected in the budget in a situation where the figures tell a harsh language, and since 2014 the amount of money allocated for this purpose has fallen by 44%?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u42	Let me give you the following answers: Mr Juhantalo, Mr Heinonen and Mr Lindtman. Then the ministers' answers, and then we change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u43	Mr President! It was particularly good to hear both ministers, Mr Soin and Mr Mykkänen, talk about setting up Business Finland on the basis of Finpro and Tekes. This is a step in the right direction to promote exports, which can be done by developing the work of the embassies. It is like the Russian trade, which we have seen this year, between January and June, with an increase of 19%. It is the growth that enhanced action will bring. Last year it was still falling by 6 per cent. Let us compare, for example, to 2015, when the decrease was 35 per cent. Only the determined work of the organisations and the government has done this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u44	Mr President! The security situation has also changed significantly in our neighbourhood. Russia has been practicing its own defence with its partner country. Sweden has been practicing to defend its own country, and among other things we have been involved in it. Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö and Chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr Kanerva, have presented a larger, multinational exercise in receiving international aid in Finland as well. Finland practiced the defence of Sweden in the Aurora military training, defence training. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, now that there has been a debate in Finland, that this would send the wrong signal about our foreign policy policies: how you feel, what kind of signal it would be, what kind of foreign policy message if we were to practise with our own countries, including our own countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u45	Mr President! Finland has been, and has been, a bigger factor in defending and promoting stability, peace, human rights and democracy in the world. It has, of course, been accompanied by the fact that we have dealt with our own affairs in such a way that our voice is heard. Development aid cuts in this respect will undoubtedly bring a small stain, and would like to see the Foreign Minister’s heart beat a little more in this regard to Finland’s continuing on a responsible course. But it has also included an active foreign policy and, among other things, the promotion of disarmament. Mr Foreign Minister, today is the UN Day of Disarmament. In this spirit, I would like to ask why, unlike Sweden, Finland did not go on negotiating the agreement signed by ten countries last week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u46	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u47	Mr President! Let us first answer Mrs Kääriäinen's question about Finland's foreign policy concept, about which I think this is about safeguarding Finland's independence and sovereignty through her own work and international cooperation, with the aim of a fair, just world of peace. You can put this on a house-to-house program or something.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u54	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u55	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to return to what Mrs Rinne pointed out in this previous round that we have indeed, quite rightly, as many as 120 million new job seekers on top of the present people in sub-Saharan Africa over the next ten years, and that is exactly what they are going to be. That is why it is at the very heart of the matter that, apart from having the opportunity for girls, we will have access to jobs for young people, particularly in Africa, and we will reduce the threshold for investment that leads to industrial work — a little bit of the model that, fortunately, in a large part of Asia, one billion people have risen to the lower middle class with this. And that is why I firmly believe that this opportunity for us to use investment-based risk-sharing funding is an extremely good thing for the future. This is Mr Toivola and also Mr Toivola. Mr Laukkanen referred to the fact that, of course, this creates a beak between the various beneficiaries or different cash users, which is perfectly understandable when, in many areas, we have had to reduce the budget, that is to say, the grant, but we have been able to increase the investment form. Once again, as I said a year ago and many times, no euro that we invest through Finnfund, the World Bank or the IFC or any other route is out of place. They're really in that separate safe, like a representative. Even Laukkanen had already noticed and mentioned, [Department :Where do the funds come from at ] Mr Toivola pointed out that companies and organisations were synergistically united. That is why we have now also increased these partnership funds, so that this is exactly what Finnpartnership and BEAM would create even more. Mr Sarkkinen and Mrs Wallin returned to this overall level, and first of all I would say to Mrs Wallin that the situation is a little better than the figures you have presented for next year, both in terms of the proportion of women and girls and in terms of the overall level, because this government has now deliberately increased EUR 11 million between this year and next year and in fact more than EUR 40 million from 2016 to next year in euros. Of course, these old figures are effective here, but when you ask me about a long-term plan, I think that the basic point is that at that point you can afford to raise your debt briskly, the Finnish state will no longer be in debt, and in this respect you will be able to get out of the deficit – then it will certainly be a place for serious discussion, if you are honest. Mr Huhtasaari rightly referred to better measurement and abuse, and one year from now, when we bring the evaluation, the report's overall implementation, my dream is that we will be able to identify the results much more precisely than before and also possible abuses. Unfortunately, a certain percentage emerges — quite steadily through the help of the organisations, fairly evenly in the country programmes and, of course, in our investment-based projects, so that in so far as this does not allow any instrument to be prioritised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u56	Now we move on to the administration of the Ministry of Education. Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u57	Mr President! High level of education, impressive early childhood education and high quality and free education are the foundation of Finnish welfare society. The Government ensures equal and high-quality education for all Finns. The atmosphere in this budget debate is very different from that in the past. Difficult financial decisions are now behind us. In the Government’s mid-term debate, new investments of more than EUR 200 million were made in knowledge. It is now a pleasure to be able to bring these to fruition. Finland strives for knowledge-based growth and wants to be the best country of education in the world in the future. We are now moving in a brighter direction. This is reflected, for example, in the fact that when Finland’s economy has turned to growth, the key issue has become to ensure the availability of skilled labour. This is an important priority in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Mr President! I will list some picks from next year's draft budget. Customer fees for early childhood education will be reduced from the beginning of next year. The impact of this significant reduction is about EUR 70 million, and it is absolutely good news for families with children. Fees for a family of small and medium incomes will decrease, and the second child's Si-saraste will be 50 per cent of the current 10. The average-income family of two children saves more than 1200 euros a year with a discount. In addition, the Government will launch an experiment on free early childhood education for 5 year olds together with municipalities. EUR 5 million has been set aside for the experiment. The number of university-educated kindergarten teachers will be increased. A total of EUR 28 million has been added to the development of the personnel structure of early childhood education for the spending limits period, with an increase of EUR 5 million for 2018. It has been agreed with universities that 1,000 new university-educated kindergarten teachers will be provided with money. Equality in comprehensive school will be strengthened. Equal opportunities funding to support primary schools in challenging areas will be doubled. The increase is 15 million and the total amount is 30 million. This funding has never been so high in the state budget. In addition, additional support of EUR 10 million will be allocated to schools and municipalities which do not participate in development programmes for various reasons in order to strengthen regional equality in education. EUR 24 million will be allocated to the pilot and development of digital learning in comprehensive schools and to language experiments and the promotion of the accessibility of basic art education. An appropriation of EUR 23 million is proposed for the renewal of initial and continuing training for teachers. The Government will also submit a presentation on the language experiment in another Finnish language. An increase of EUR 5 million will be made in the quality of science and mathematics education. Upper secondary school education will be renewed. The aim of the reform is to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school education, strengthen the quality of upper secondary school education and facilitate the transition from upper secondary school to higher education. With regard to liberal education, I would like to highlight a new form of education specifically intended for immigrants, which will start next year. Its main contents are studies in reading and writing and in Finnish or Swedish. From the beginning of 2018, the reform of vocational education and training will enter into force. Reform is the biggest educational reform in 20 years. In the same context, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture will be transferred to a degree-oriented labour market training and part of labour market training leading to a qualification. As a result, the appropriation for vocational education and training will be increased by EUR 50.7 million in the Ministry of Education and Culture’s section from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. An additional EUR 15 million will be proposed for next year to support the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training. The right to psychological and curator services under the Student and Student Care Act will be extended to all undergraduate students and students in preparatory education. EUR 5.6 million will be invested in the expansion of services. With the change, about 50,000 students will be admitted to the services. In order to reduce youth unemployment and meet skills needs, the supply of vocational education and training will be increased by 1000 student years. The cost impact of the increase is EUR 9.4 million and this was agreed in the budget debate. At the heart of the Government’s higher education policy is the promotion of the quality, effectiveness and internationality of higher education and research. A concrete example of the turnaround of the Finnish economy is that we now have areas where the economy is growing rapidly and we need skilled labour. Already in May, the Government decided to allocate a total of EUR 20 million to the skills needs of the regions for a positive structural change. This model, the FITech University of Technology, was agreed at the time and is an excellent model, which will also receive EUR 12 million in funding over a period of three years. Now the government has added EUR 2 million to that, so that cooperation can be extended to areas other than the south-west of Finland's positive structural change. Polytechnic education is also strengthened in the area of positive structural change. The Academy of Finland will be presented with a mandate to implement flagship research centres, EUR 25 million for 2018, and a corresponding effort for 2019 has been agreed in the spring budgetary plan. The flagship programme strengthens Finnish science and promotes the effectiveness of research. A budget of EUR 33 million has been set aside for the development of data management and HPC, of which EUR 12 million will be allocated for next year. The development programme will raise the research infrastructure in this area to an international level and strengthen research and training related to AI. Universities of applied sciences and universities are capitalised according to the Government Programme. A new appropriation of EUR 5 million will be allocated to the research, development and innovation activities of universities of applied sciences to meet skills needs and develop working life in the regions. Mr President! In the state budget, the Ministry of Education and Culture accounts for EUR 6.6 billion. When municipal investments are included, the total will increase to up to EUR 16 billion. Finland believes in education, research, culture and culture. We ensure equality of opportunity for every Finnish child and young person. Each of them deserves the best education in the world, nothing less.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u58	All right, and now there is the opportunity to ask for answers, and they will begin with Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u59	Mr. Speaker! This big picture is positive now that we look at next year's budget. We have now lived past the time when cuts had to be made to make Finland turn around, and now we are in a situation where machines can slowly be driven up again. There are very important specific targets here, those on which different parties have agreed. The Minister mentioned many of them. Of course, the reduction in early childhood education fees is similar to the targeted efforts made in primary schools. The story of Finland has always been that all schools are equally good regardless of whether they are located in Eastern Finland or Northern Finland or in different parts of the city. This must continue to be the case. I would also like to raise the issue of the student care-sharing breed, which is significant. When we made the reform, where the general housing allowance became the main form also for students, we made a specific raise for the guardians — a very important one, even for the city center, for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u60	Mr President! These small additions mentioned by the Minister are of course good, but they are like a Band-Aid for a large open wound. I would like to ask you, Minister of Education, when I think that Mr Rinne, President of the SDP, made an important proposal on Saturday, that in some time our constitution should include early childhood education. That's where it says it. Civil rights: "Everyone has the right to basic education free of charge." In the future, it would be "free early childhood education and basic education". It is just so important now, even in the light of recent studies, that we must move in this direction. The second question: In practice, the budget will now put an end to the skills programme for young adults, which, at the end of which, at the end of which, some 16,000 young people without a qualification received a vocational qualification. It has been found to be quite effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u61	Mr President! Education is the best thing we can give our children and young people. It is actually the guiding principle for Finland as a whole. We are living at a turning point where, you can say, for a long time we will be able to say that we are investing in education. These examples raised by the Minister indicate that they are very important. Increasing the freedom to pay in early childhood education is also a very important activity in the economy of these children's families. We are also living in a situation where we are at a turning point towards a future in which technological change, robotisation, artificial intelligence will change the working life of our children and young people. The question then arises as to how our education system will respond to the challenges of the future. I would say quite well: we have a higher education field in the reform phase, we are reforming high school, we are reforming early childhood education, and we are also moving the curricula of primary schools forward by investing in:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u62	President! The education sector has undergone drastic cuts during the two parliamentary term. Now, finally, there's light at the end of the tunnel. There are many good things to which reference has already been made. For me, it is a very valuable thing that we have achieved the reform of secondary vocational education last spring, which has been commended by experts. It is extremely important that there is now additional funding for implementation. It is therefore important when you hear messages from that field that, when the focus of education is extended to work-based learning, companies are increasingly taking up this opportunity and information is passed on to businesses and given incentives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u65	Mr President! The EUR 15 million allocated to support the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training is welcome in order to implement this major, important reform. Vocational training will be made more practical, which is a good thing. Nevertheless, I am concerned about the adequacy of the resources of vocational schools. Vocational education has been cut for several years and the organisers of practical teaching are constantly struggling with the adequacy of resources. I would like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: is this EUR 15 million sufficient money for the implementation of the vocational training reform in relation to the scale of the project in question, and above all, does it suffer from local education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u66	Mr President! The Board of Directors of Katainen significantly increased funding directed to comprehensive schools to reduce class sizes. Stubb's government halved it, and this government took the rest of the money away. This has led to a significant increase in grades in primary schools during this term of government, according to Vipuse, the Statistics Service of the Education Administration — in fact, it is already at a higher level than before the Katainen Government's contributions. At the same time, massive cuts have been made on the second stage of the profession, which means that local education needs to be reduced on the professional side, where the drop-out has already been a problem. It is influenced by the lack of local education, it is influenced by the high price of teaching materials. Now my question is: What is the future for Finland if the government increases the class sizes of comprehensive school and reduces local education and at the same time
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u67	Mr President! When you look at this budget as a whole, the first idea that comes to mind is confusion, because the budget combines conflicting issues. On the other hand, there is a huge amount of anger and a desire to reform and create education and society and culture in the future, which is truly something to be supported and valued, but at the same time it is not possible to ignore the fact that a series of hundreds of millions of cuts in education continue to be carried along alongside them, which threaten the foundations and the whole, and also a threat to what the Minister is talking about, that every young person can get the best possible starting point for taking it forward in his or her own life. This contradiction is very difficult to understand and these cuts also threaten that reform. One current example is university pedagogy: how much has been invested in it in recent years, supported by researchers in teaching, so that all the different learners can learn it, and then the future cuts, and then the teaching will be reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u68	Värderade Talman! De regionala språkförsöken kommenter att leda till ökad ojämlikhet i och med öjligheten att läja brt det andra inhemska språket. Det är nämligen omöjligt att sia om sina framtida kunskapsbehov när man är 9-10år gammal. Försöket har också utbildningspolitiska consevenser. Regeringen frångår den alldeles grundläggande principen om att skapa Jämlika förutsättningar för alla barn. Vi borde focusera på att tidigarelägga all språkundervisning och på att sporra våra barn och unga att lasa flera språk, inte färre. För villa är detta också första steget till att göra all Svenskundervisning frivillig i våra skolor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u69	Mr President! I would also pay attention to the growth of groups in early childhood education and basic education. Too large teaching groups make it impossible to invest our skilled and skilled staff individually in young people, and especially those who are disadvantaged, those who develop less slowly and have learning difficulties, are left behind in large groups of children. These central government participation cuts amount to over 6.5 million from 2016. Another thing that will affect us is the special allowance that has been in force since 2010 due to the reduction in age groups, which has now been abolished. I would have asked the Minister: what is the way in which we take care of what Mr Puumala said here, the level of quality, the fact that from Hanko to Nuorga it does not matter where the child goes to primary school? This is no longer true at the moment. We now have very clear differences between schools and municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u70	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, in the presentation of the draft budget, said that the employment rate of people without basic education is 43% and that something needs to be done about this. On several occasions, the SDP has raised the issue of raising the compulsory age, increasing the right to study, free secondary education to respond to this call.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u73	Mr President! I am very pleased with every euro in which the government cancels its own huge cuts in education, but at the same time it must be said that I think it is a misconception to talk about new investments in education in the face of cuts of EUR 0.5 billion and an increase of only EUR 50 million in permanent funding. Of course, I give my unreserved support to reducing the fees for day care, but at the same time I would like to ask the Minister for Education one question about subjective day care rights: what measures will the government take now that the municipalities have a clear message that the restriction of subjective day care rights has not achieved the savings expected by the government? In practice, the limitation of the right to day care has been challenging in the everyday life of day care centres. Although you have sworn that the change does not affect the quality of early childhood education, the voices in the field speak something else. Child groups have grown and grouping is difficult when part-time and full-time care needs to be combined with the same groups. Last question crystallized:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u74	Mr President! Education and civilization are the foundation of the nation's success. Here a few years ago, when the cuts in education were at their worst, it was asked what you would spend the last euro in society: food, the environment or medicine. The answer was clear that education, because education and education will be the problem solvers of the future. That is why it is good that, under the leadership of the Minister of Education, the whole field of education is now being reformed with a strong approach to the challenges of the future, from early childhood education to higher education. There are good points in that budget, including this thousand new jobs in vocational education and training, thereby preventing the exclusion of young people. The abolition of early childhood education fees from 6,700 families is a great, great indication of support for work and early childhood education, and for example, that sister discount means a saving of EUR 1200 per year for a middle-income family.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u75	Mr President! Finland wants to be the best in the world, as has already been repeated here several times, and education is the key to this. Many Finnish success factors are influenced by mathematics skills, but different measurements have shown that the mathematics skills of comprehensive school are deteriorating. We are now making more money for luma substances in this budget, but I have already begun to wonder whether such development on the basis of project funding is a good thing after all, whether that money will achieve what is sought for, or whether any other movement of posture is now in order. How can we get more kicks in this math, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u76	Mr President! There are a number of points on which we can agree with the Swedish parliamentary group, but on this question of language testing we may disagree. The Blue Parliamentary Group is very much in favour of this regional language experiment, i.e. that you can study all levels of education without studying Swedish — or Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u81	Mr President! Now that this symbol issue is of great importance to the Blue Future, it is good to remember that when the student swedes were abandoned, it was once justified, among other things, by giving the high school students room to read other languages. What's happened? Today, fewer languages are read than before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u84	Mr President! As has been said here before, it is important to gradually increase the investment in education. And as Mrs Parviainen pointed out, the knowledge of science and mathematics is strengthened by this national development programme, and this is important because Finland's Pisa success has continued to deteriorate between 2000 and 2015, especially in science and mathematics. In 2006, Finland's performance in mathematics was 548 points and in 2015 only 511 points, the same trend is also in natural sciences, so additional contributions are needed. Then, briefly, about this language experiment: Indeed, the government has made a proposal for it. It would allow a maximum of 2,200 pupils to be exempted from studying another domestic language. The presentation is in itself good and along the right lines, but of course it would be desirable for a much larger number of students to be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u85	Mr President! Separately, of course, these reductions in early childhood education fees for families with low and middle incomes are the right trend and so is this experiment with willing municipalities on the free provision of early childhood education for five-year-olds. But it must be said from these cuts in vocational education and training that the efforts now being made are completely inadequate and that these government cuts have already jeopardised the equality of education and have reduced up to 1600 jobs in vocational education and training. This cannot in any way be seen in the quality of education, in the number of local education courses or in the right of young people to equal education. So I ask you, Minister: how can equality in education be secured in concrete terms? Are you prepared to make vocational education and training materials free of charge so that no young person has to drop out of their studies because of financial difficulties?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u86	I will give three more speeches to this debate, to the representatives of Eloranta, Kosonen and Sarkomaa, and then we will take a second round after the Minister has replied.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u87	Mr President! Over the last three decades, more than 600,000 jobs have been lost in Finland, for which primary education has been sufficient. Indeed, the employment rate of those dependent on comprehensive school has fallen so that only 43% of them actually work. Only those who go to primary school are at work, not their working age. In Finland, there are huge numbers of over 600,000 people of working age dependent on primary education. Still, of each age group, about 10,000 young people end in comprehensive school, and this is a major social and educational problem. It is therefore absolutely essential that we secure at least a secondary degree for each young person. Extending compulsory education to cover a secondary degree would also eliminate the problem of paid learning materials. It would improve the employment of young people and pay for themselves soon. Are you prepared, Minister, to take up this SDP proposal to extend compulsory education or the right to study? It is worth remembering that only Turkey has a shorter compulsory education than we do in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u88	Mr President! Indeed, there is a lot of good in this budget: the many times mentioned here are that early childhood education is free of charge for five-year-olds, this experiment, and then, in general, the reduction in early childhood education fees for those on low and medium incomes. In the area of positive structural change, this FITech network and cooperation between technical universities will be carried out and models will then be developed to disseminate this new cooperation with companies that has been learned there. I would have asked about this, given that this problem is little everywhere in Finland, i.e. we do not really have the employees and the skills and businesses to face: what kind of measures do you expect, Minister, to take, and what timetable will it take for these models to spread to other regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u89	Mr President! Next year's budget will be good for 100-year-old Finland. In the back are Minister Kiuru's cuts and foot-on-hand renewal time. We are now reforming education and genuinely becoming a new resource for education. The Social Democrats seem to be digging into the old trenches of education policy: extending compulsory education, stretching it, does not help any young people. It is really good that early childhood education is possible for all, its quality is improved, the quality of basic education is improved,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u90	Now, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u91	Mr President! Thank you very much for the many good speeches that have been made in this Chamber and I am happy to comment on them. First of all, this big picture. The main goal of the government is to bring Finland back to growth and growth, to increase employment, and in this goal we are now longer than we can say for a long time. After nearly ten weak years, Finland's economy has turned to higher levels and employment has improved. It is also good news from the point of view that it will allow us to invest again in education. The last term of government was gloomy in many ways in terms of education policy. There was a Social Democratic Minister for Education, during which education was cut off, but in practice there were no reforms; new legislation on vocational education and training was prepared, it was not done; there was no special attention paid to the fact that Finland is lagging behind in education in other OECD countries; however, youth unemployment came to work, but it was not very impressive because youth unemployment increased; learning science and mathematics, for example, was not given much attention at the time. In other words, many important reforms were not made during the previous term of government, and that is what we have now made a change to. In practice, we are undergoing different kinds of reforms at all levels of education, from early childhood education to lifelong learning. When it comes to youth unemployment, the most important thing is to try to influence the social exclusion of young people as early as possible by supporting families and investing in early childhood education, and now increasing the participation rate in early childhood education has been made a strategic goal for the government. Early childhood education fees will be reduced next year, quality will be strengthened through new early childhood education plans and the strengthening of the number and skills of professionals. In other words, early childhood education is now in the direction of increasing participation in early childhood education in an increasing proportion of the age group. The free trial for 5-year-olds is a very good start. In vocational education, the big reform has in practice already been adopted here in Parliament, and it will come into force from the beginning of next year, a major educational reform. Representative Gustafsson asked about the skills program for young adults. It has been a small fraction of vocational education. Now we are building an integrated system of vocational education and training, which is also able to serve this challenging target group of young adults even better. In addition, the government has a programme in paragraph 19 to reduce the exclusion of young people, and the key issue is how we prepare children and young people for occupations and jobs that do not yet exist. Working life is changing so rapidly that we must be able to increase responsiveness also in education, to increase the links between education and working life and to prepare children and young people for the future of working life, and for these reforms I will use all my energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u92	Now we're going to continue the debate, and we're going to begin it with Mr. Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u93	Mr President! The Minister spoke of impressive reforms. During the previous government term, the Youth Guarantee was implemented and as part of the Youth Guarantee, which guaranteed the 9th graders a continuation. I went through a ten-year period before the month of education and a couple of years when it was in force, and its effectiveness is really reflected in the statistics: in the first two years of implementation, the proportion of those who did not start after the ninth grade fell by nearly one third, that is, thousands of young people. This is, of course, a wonderful, fine, impressive education policy, and many people in this House are in favour of following it, and one way of continuing it is precisely the continuation of compulsory education. Personally, I would like to talk about 12 years of basic education as a long-term goal. Well, in last week's referral debate here, Minister Orpo said that the government is not going to implement the second-degree freedom and referred to other means of ensuring secondary education. Now I would like to ask the Minister: what are these?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u94	Mr President! It is excellent that the government is now investing in early childhood education by lowering early childhood education fees and, at the same time, increasing the start-up places for kindergarten teacher training over several years. These are the right things to do. In basic education, the State Economic Research Centre has examined the financing of positive discrimination and found it very effective. I would like to ask: could this kind of funding also be considered for early childhood education? It could have its place. My second question concerns exercise and moving school. Today I was able to watch some 3,300 children move as School Action Day in Vantaa, and 100,000 children moved throughout Finland today. The mobile school has been a success story, but it is currently project funding. However, the aim is to stabilise the activities. At the same time as modernising teachers' continuing and basic training, how can we take into account the fact that functional education and physical activity in education can be taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u95	Mr President! Unfortunately, the efforts of a nice school to prevent school bullying are not enough. There are constantly new and new contacts about the continued bullying that has been going on for some for years. I would therefore like to know what action the government is taking to improve school bullying, which is very unfair and marginalising and causes mental health problems. Are we prepared, for example, to put a binding provision in the Basic Education Act that someone in school really does need to see to it that once bullying measures have been taken and detected, that bullying will also stop? When will we get aftercare, which already has good models in Finland, as part of schoolwork, so that when these cases of bullying are found, students will also receive aftercare?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u96	Mr President! The Minister of Education spoke beautifully about how the mood is different now than before in this Chamber and that times are better. It is now my sad duty to remind the Minister for Education that the Sipilä Government is a government that will be left behind in the history of its massive cuts in education and that this government failed the promise of education given to students: you promised before the elections that studies would remain student money-oriented, but you have made it and made it loan-oriented. The government will cut by 0.5 billion in education and 50 million in permanent funding, which means you will cut the gap you have made by one tenth of the amount. This cannot be considered a good policy. You also spoke beautifully about the fact that prevention is an act of exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u97	Mr President! A study of the OECD was published a few weeks ago, which found that Finland is at the top of the statistics on funding education: Finland spends the third most public money on education from the OECD countries. However, the participation rate in early childhood education in Finland is exceptionally low internationally: 87 per cent of 4 year olds in the OECD region participated in early childhood education in 2015, 74 per cent of 4 year olds in Finland. The participation rate is not much higher for 5-year-olds, but only for 6-year-olds taking part in pre-school education Finland reaches the international average. Mr President! The Government has set itself the objective of improving the quality of early childhood education and increasing the participation rate. An experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds will be launched with willing municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u98	Mr President! Unlike the Greens, the Finns of Finland welcomed and welcomed the limitation of subjective day care, because it has been a viable solution to reform day care. Secondly, the experience in Vantaa shows that all families who need subjective day care for their children for a particular reason have in practice received and receive it — the response rate was over 90 — that those who applied for it received it. In that sense, subjective day care has not weakened access to day care for any child if necessary. In this context, we are forced to throw a little ball in the direction of the Social Democrats, because we are now back in Vantaa with the ball returning to the direction that we are going back to making subjective day care possible, and we are losing the savings of millions of euros and the good experiences we have had. I would therefore like to see Mr Lindtman catch this and take the line put forward by the officials in this regard. I would have asked the Minister if we could be a little more ambitious in that when there are only a thousand more places for vocational training and we know that we have
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u99	Mr President! It is true that in Vantaa the Finns and the Coalition Party found each other and limited the right to day care and we opposed it. In this connection, I wanted to ask the Minister for Education: This cap saves the state money 15 cents per Finn per month. Is it worth it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u102	Mr President! According to a recent survey, as many as 40% of kindergarten teachers are considering changing the sector. The causes are poor pay and mental and physical stress. Increasing the size of early childhood education groups, as decided by the government, increases the workload of work and can exacerbate the shortage of labour if it increases the sector's turnover, and thus the very necessary increase in the number of kindergarten teachers as such can be wasted if people change the sector to an increasing extent. How does the Minister of Education view these findings? In addition, the goal of raising the participation rate of early childhood education can be wasted if people fail to take their children to early childhood education because of a deterioration in quality. But, Mr President, there is now experience of the abolition of subjective day care rights, and these experiences are harsh: inequality by municipality has increased, changing groups, inequality between children, bureaucracy —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u103	Mr President! First of all, when it is said here to enhance and improve the teaching of mathematics, why not, certainly so, but do not let the concept of humanism disappear. Under no circumstances do you stop history and social sciences.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u106	Herr Talman! Det auri språkexperimentet som kör igång med 2200 elephant har ventilerats ai i salen. Med tanke på att utgångspunkten hos tillskyndarna antgligen var ett femsiffrigt tal så är 2200 ganska lite. Det gör egentligen det ox försöket till en papperstiger, i stort sett. Men inte för dem som berörs, de 2200, de riskerar hamna i en sämre sits än de som lär sig språk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u107	Mr President! The success of our country has been based on strong knowledge and the fact that every child can become anything, that our education is of high quality and strong
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u110	Mr President! There are in particular three points of light in the field of education and education: The long and fervently desired increase in the guardianship of students will come next year. It is 75 euros a month, and it is a big hand extension for low-income learning families. There are many reforms in early childhood education, such as the reduction of early childhood education fees, and more than 6,700 families are admitted to zero, which is a big thing, and free early childhood education for five-year-olds is also being tried. And every Finnish child is entitled to early childhood education at least 20 hours a week, at least 20 hours. We need to remember this. To the last breath, I say that there will be more places to start vocational training. It is a good sign that vocational training is being invested in after those heavy cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u111	I will now give the answers to the representatives of Heinonen, Aalto, Gustafsson and Puumala, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u112	Mr President! Personally, I do not believe that social democrats are pushing for a study run, but rather that we are looking for ways to support different students and encourage different learners. A covered student does not stay in school, and that is why it is worth looking for other ways. I welcome the fact that under the leadership of Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen, early childhood education fees will be reduced and many families, almost 7,000 families, will be able to access free early childhood education. The early childhood education fees for an average-income family fall by over 1200 euros a year. These are significant investments. But I'd like to ask you about this five-year-old experiment. Do you already have any idea, Minister, how many municipalities, how many cities are involved in the experiment and how many families are involved? And thank you very much for also investing under your leadership in increasing the education of kindergarten teachers,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u113	Mr President! I repeat my question to the Minister for Education:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u116	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Sarkomaa very understated the fact that the Social Democrats are digging up some old things when we talk about the right to study, the age of compulsory education. I can tell you that the President of the Economic Council, Professor Uusitalo, has welcomed the raising of the learning age. Similarly, Juho Saari, professor of social and health policy at the University of Tampere, senior professors of the younger generation, sees that 16 to 17-year-olds should not be left on the couch, but use modern pedagogical methods, work and rotation of studies and so on. That now awaken from this dream, the blue dream that the coalition lives on. You were against comprehensive school at the time, you were against polytechnic reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u117	Perhaps we should now give Mr Sarkomaa a reply after this speech, and then Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u118	Mr President! The fact that the social democrats have a close eye there in the past was again confirmed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u119	Mr President! In the centre we are talking about the right to learn, not the obligation to learn, and this right of study would come without party political passions and without moats to look at in peace. Now it will soon become a pretty good and strong research evidence, and then we'll see it together in peace. At least we maintain the sensitivity of the party, because we always think that the interests of young people must be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u122	Minister Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes, and then we'll switch to another topic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u123	Mr President! The government takes the exclusion of young people very seriously, and the most effective way to prevent the exclusion of young people is to increase the participation of children in early childhood education and support families. In other words, early intervention and prevention are at the heart of the issue of preventing the exclusion of young people. This does not mean that we should not also devote all our energy to helping young people at a time when young people are falling outside working life and education, and that is also what the government has prepared for with the 19th paragraph programme to prevent exclusion. The reform of vocational education and training is an overall reform which also brings new tools to prevent drop-out of education, because we have had a valuable guarantee of education, which is firmly adhered to and which has been the subject of good work, but the problem has moved on to the next point, which is the drop-out of education. This will be reduced by the reform of vocational education and training and by the individual paths that define the need for support for young people. We have very different students in vocational education and training: we have target young people there who, for example, will soon go out to the World Cup to compete for the best titles in vocational education and training in the world; we have those in work who need to update their own skills or are the changers in the sector; then we have young people in vocational education who are losing their way to life and who need very much support, so to speak, on the path of exclusion. All these groups of our vocational education and training must serve, and it is a big and challenging task, and for that the vocational education reform is needed. There is also a need to invest in teacher training and in continuing training opportunities for teachers. The programme of this government is to develop teacher training. In practice, the Teacher Education Forum covers all higher education institutions providing teacher training, and there is also a strong involvement of all stakeholders, and there, together, professionals will build future teacher training. Our teachers are at the heart of Finnish education policy. Finland has the best teachers in the world, we have excellent teacher training, and this is something we must continue to invest in. This government has made such investments in teacher training as none of the governments of the recent past has done, which means that we have invested specifically in the opportunities for the professional development of teachers and, among other things, in a new model of tutoring, which has also been a strong recommendation from the teacher training forum. Our priorities are to strengthen equality in education, improve learning outcomes and strengthen teacher education. I would like to say a few words about language learning, because it was strongly raised here: Language experimentation is a record in the Government Programme, and this experiment in another Finnish language is being carried out. But in the big picture, the goal of the government is to advance language learning, i.e. to start learning languages earlier, and to diversify. In addition to this, we want education to become more international, that young people have more opportunities for internationalisation already during education and training, with various exchange programmes, at home internationalisation and so on. At the moment, Riitta Pyykkö, Vice President of the University of Turku, is preparing a national language strategy that defines the future of our language learning in a changing global world, and I expect much from this report. There was a lot of discussion about early childhood education here, and that is good because it is quite central. It may sound a bit like going to the lily groves now, but it is not at all: could we start talking in this Chamber about early education instead of day care, because they are two completely different things? Early childhood education is goal-oriented, systematic, pedagogical early childhood education. We don't have day care anymore. It's the past. Early childhood education is the right of every child from now on, at least 20 hours a week, and if the child or family needs more, the child will receive it. The key to the implementation of education policy is that we need to hear the message of experts and researchers about the most effective means, and one example of how this has been done is that the government is investing in these equality funds. So now, with the VATT study, there is evidence that it has implications for strengthening equality, that we are strengthening the conditions for schools in the weaker regions and that we are bringing more support to where the need is greatest. Another aspect is the strengthening of this regional equality, which is very important. A study on material costs is currently under way in the Finnish National Board of Education and we will return to its results as soon as it is completed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u124	Secretary Terho, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u125	Mr President! The draft budget for next year includes numerous reforms and development projects in the fields of culture and art, sport, physical activity and youth work and student support. A monthly increase of EUR 75 is proposed for the study allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u128	We now have the opportunity to ask for answers in this area and they will begin by Mrs Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u129	Mr President! Let's get out of here. Let's get out of here. Let's get out of here. Let's get out of here. You have recently received a very good piece of work from a working group on what should be done with sport and sport, Minister. Now I would like you to take a position on how you respond to the report presented in that report. I think it would be the first time that a report has been produced on sports and sports. Personally, I think it is highly justified when it comes to how much money flows are moving in the movement and how many administrative sectors it actually goes to. We often don't think about it. Secondly, what do you think of that fund, in which the state would invest part-time, and whose return on capital would support young athletes in particular? I also thought it was a good performance. Then I would also ask about the position of the Sports Council. Do you think it is good that it is there under your ministry, or should it actually be under the authority of the Prime Minister's Office, in which case:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u130	Mr President! I'm asking about the same subject. In the past, the Sports Council has repeatedly drawn attention to the same issues that the working group led by Harkimo has now drawn attention to. The sport funding system is constantly talking about the field. On the one hand, it is important to support sports clubs, sports federations and the provision of sports facilities for everyone, and on the other hand, we must remember that we also have adequate forms of support for top sport if we want to ensure our success in the future. Like Puumala, I am also interested in how Minister Terho views the presentations of the Harkimo Task Force. It also raises the question — and I am also sitting on the Sports Council, and it has now been consulted on various areas of government, and it has been said jointly — that physical activity is something that is in fact common to all sectors of government, and yet we often encounter border fences blocking effective action. How do you see this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u131	Mr President! I take this opportunity — I did not see that there would be a separate debate here on European law — when the Minister for European Affairs is here, and I would like to ask: how does the Minister for European Affairs see the present integration, and how does Finland view it? I would also like to ask the Minister for European Affairs: what is your view of organising the European referendum now? You have said earlier in the spring that you personally consider this to be a good thing during the next parliamentary term. How do you view it, and what is your attitude and the attitude of the Finnish Government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u132	I think it is appropriate that there should also be a debate on European policy in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u133	Mr President! Last Friday, British Prime Minister Theresa May gave a very important line on Britain's relationship with the Brexit process, the UK's EU separation. There are now more options. Perhaps the most important thing has been the so-called over-expenditure agreement, in which the agreement would be in force while Britain has finally resigned from the EU. On the other hand, an agreement could be concluded whereby the relationship would remain as it is until Britain resigns from the EU, or a third possibility would be a unanimous decision to extend the withdrawal period, which would be possible under the Treaties. I would like to ask the Minister for European Affairs: how do you see these options for Finland? The role of the Finnish Government is, of course, to reflect on Finland's national interests and, for example, the ability of our companies to function in this difficult situation, as I see now a large EU Member State.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u134	Now that there seems to be a greater need to discuss this issue of Europe, it seems reasonable that this debate should be divided in such a way that I request that those who wish to respond to the European theme should now ask for their response. Then we will take the Minister's answer, and then we will return to the affairs of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u135	Mr President, just like that. — President! I am sure that practice will determine here in this Chamber, so I would like to ask you, Minister for European Affairs, in connection with cohesion policy: In line with the earlier decision, the Commission should submit by the end of 2017 a proposal for a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) from 2021 onwards, and because of those Brexit negotiations it is possible that future negotiations on the financial framework will be very, very exceptional. We have these well-known European challenges, but then we also have this Brexit issue. Even as a net contributor, Finland needs to aim for better recovery, particularly in the EU's cohesion policy. How do you see Finland's position in that financial framework and, above all, the guidelines of Finland's cohesion policy in future negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u136	Are there any further contributions to the question of Europe? Mr Essayah, then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u137	Mr President! My question also concerns this Brexit and its consequences for Finland and Finland, particularly as a net contributor country. I would have liked to have heard the Minister's and the Government's views on how we are going to proceed to these future developments, the size of the budget, whether Finland has any vision for the negotiations on the financial framework. We have tried to keep this common budget at 1% of GDP. How do you think, for example, of the number of meps in the future when British meps leave? What is Finland’s view of these questions? As Mrs Katainen mentioned earlier, the entire future financial framework period, when the large net contributor country of Great Britain leaves the Union, will certainly have to be considered in a whole new way. Has Finland defined the priorities that are important to Finland, the possible way in which the budget should be adjusted, so that we can continue to have important things there and then the overall size of the budget does not fall apart?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u138	Now Minister Terho, three minutes from the topic of Europe, and then we come back to the subject of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u139	Mr President! Here came this kind of surprise twist, we moved to a meeting of a large committee, but why not, for the old mep? Let's start with this May thing when it's quite topical. His speech has also been welcomed here on the EU negotiating side and has been considered constructive, and rightly so, in my opinion. Of course, we do not have negotiations on the basis of speeches, but we must then complement them with clear programme papers and policies on what Britain really is driving. After all, the debate is taking place right now this week and at a very important stage as to whether significant progress can be made on how to talk about this second stage of the negotiations at some point, which is not yet even getting off the ground. As far as this transitional period is concerned, it is one of these points, for which further clarification is needed. It is certainly conceivable that Britain may need some kind of transitional period, but we really need to have some more detailed debate on what they are looking for in this transitional period, and that is precisely what our negotiating party, Mr Barnier, as the representative of the Commission, is currently having this debate there. Cohesion policy — an old and familiar subject: It must, of course, be fair, clear criteria must be respected and conditional. Of course, Finland is seeking the greatest possible share, as is the case with all the other countries, which requires that we have good projects and ideas about what this money is being spent on, on the same conditions as the other Member States. When the budget is discussed, Finland will have a basic starting point that, as the EU gets smaller, the budget will also decrease. There is no point in filling everything, as it were, an empty space that arises in different situations, and this is also true for this Parliament. When 73 seats are about to be released from the British, we do not think that they should all be filled immediately. We must be prepared, not only for these reasons of principle, that it is not always intended to be as large as possible, but also that, in the future, there may be a need for some other countries to have these places, and then, as it were, this creates room for manoeuvre. Nor do we support the transnational lists that have been presented — well, Mr Essayah already knows — of the European Parliament quite often and in a long history. The question was raised here: how do I react to the reform of the EU in general and to the vote? There will certainly be a great deal of discussion about EU integration this autumn. That is what Mr Macron is giving us in front of the press at this very moment, and of course they will be answered and commented on, as has been the case with Mr Juncker, and we are already pre-empting this preparatory work, both on the basis of the Government Programme and on a weekly basis, at the meeting of the Committee of Ministers of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u140	Now, at this point, I will no longer allow a debate on the European theme, but we will continue with the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u141	Mr President! During the time of Mr Grahn-Laasonen, if you look at the Olympic success and compare it with the Olympic success of the previous sports minister, you went down like a cow. This was also the case for Minister Terho, if we look at the success of the World Cup in athletics. But this is not relevant, it is essential how to move children and young people. Of course, high-level sport is needed to promote national positive cohesion and serve as a model for young people. My question is as follows: when Mr Grahn-Laasonen cut the social aid — tried to reduce the administration, cut it and directly to the grass-roots level — how, Mr Terho, do you intend to act? Are you going to return the money that was cut out of the follow-up aid that directly helps that grass-roots activity? The second question is: what other ideas do you have on how to bring down the costs of leisure activities for children and young people when studies show that up to a third of children have to leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u142	Mr President! During the time of former Minister of Sport Grahn-Laasonen, ministers also celebrated a more moderate success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u145	President! After all, the cultural budget is largely based on the profit margin. After all, this Finnish system is extremely magnificent — we can only imagine what funding for cultural life, artistic life, scientific life and sport would be like if we did not have such an opportunity. Like the Finnish Cultural Fund, created on the basis of civic activism, these are a kind of stone feet. Now my question is a kind of hybrid. I would like to ask the Minister if he has any information on whether there are any plans within the EU that such a system, the exclusive right of gambling, might eventually be dismantled in the EU. And I can't wait to be a member of the Civilization Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u146	Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of percentage art. I am pleased to welcome the fact that the percentage art is now extended from visual art to other forms of art. Perhaps I would have asked about how to start this enlargement as if to promote it. It might also be thought that when the principle of percentage art has perhaps been the most familiar form of art, how we then encourage the regional use of very wide variety of art forms. Another addition, which is coming to percentage art, is that art and culture could also be taken into social and health services, and I also salute this with joy, the various cultural and artistic services on that side are very welcome. However, perhaps we take into account such a certain division of the art field or concern that art does not become like a replacement job for these things to patch up social and health services, but it is an addition and still preserves the freedom and creativity of art?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u147	Mr President! Today, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we heard that the overall level of funding in the field of cultural activities will fall while: The proceeds from the bet will increase from this whole. Is this not a worrying development, and what action has the Minister possibly taken to remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u148	Mr President! The problem and concern of Finland as a whole is immobility, and this applies to people of all ages. More effort should be made to prevent and promote well-being, because some diseases can even be prevented by exercise and by paying attention to food habits. We should consider effective means of promoting physical activity, and so I ask about taxation: Sports services are treated differently, there are 24% alvia and 10% alvia. It is difficult to distinguish between the actual physical exercise service, which is the education service and the teaching service. Personal trainers and coaching activities are considered to be at the expense of 24% VAT. Is it possible to think that it would be 10%? I was also part of a working group that sat and dealt with sports and sports culture all spring. We made 17 concrete proposals,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u149	Mr President! "In the course of an hourly exercise day, an excellent school project has been launched and 81% of schools have In this Chamber, we will certainly recognise these human aspects of physical activity affecting well-being and health and the economy, and, as has been said here, physical activity should be strongly in every administrative sector in the reflection process so that in every way we can improve and increase it. This study by the Harkimo Group contained excellent proposals, one of which was to finance sports organisations, whether it could be longer-term than it is at present. Now it's very project-oriented, fragmented. Could we even move on to the term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u150	President! Veikkaus makes more than EUR 550 million available to the Ministry on an annual basis, an increase in total. But it is not a very difficult situation in which Veikkaus, a significant importer of profits, is co-directed by the Ministry of Ownership Steering, the Regulating Ministry and, in addition, the Beneficiary ministries, at least the Minister's Leppä, Mattila and Terho ministries — quite a few hats. That is why we should take this matter quite seriously in the long term to ensure that Mr Veikkaus is able, in an ever-increasing competitive situation, to cope with this kind of money shampoo, and I would ask Minister Terho to respond to this shampoo issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u151	Mr President! The report on sports policy is certainly more appropriate than in this situation, where the Finnish sports and sports organisation field has once again sought new organisation and has already completed it: fitness and health sports and high-level and competitive sports under the new Olympic Committee. I would have asked the minister: What are the views on this whole, first of all on the reform of the financial system for sport, the role of the Olympic Committee in the future system, the way in which the Ministry will continue to set criteria, monitor compliance with them, and then the role of the State Sports Council? So the size of this huge, big entity, and why not... Representative Kanerva here also mentioned the money pool that brings out its biggest return on physical activity and sports. In what way should all these things be able to think now for the decades to come,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u152	Mr President! The government’s achievements in the field of student allowance surgery are extensive. First, the student aid was removed from the index. Just cutting the index wasn't enough. They took out the index. Historically, 25 per cent of the student aid was cut. It is a large sum of already small aid. The maintenance increase, which has now been decided that it will come, is good, and that is what we are in favour of, but even after the custody race, the support will remain below the cut. It is notable that during the time of the Katainen Government, when the Minister Arhinmäki was the minister responsible for student aid, the government made major adjustments, but the student aid was not cut by one cent. But these cuts are not enough either, Mr President. Now students, especially those living in a group room, are going to be vaccinated with a change in housing allowance. I would hope that Minister Terho will stand up for the students when the matter is dealt with in the board, that such a proposal would not be produced in Parliament. I've had enough of the discipline of the students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u153	Mr President! There will be an increase of EUR 75 to support students with a family, which is a very good thing. But, at the same time, the problem is that the student considers the economy as a whole, and we currently have study social benefits under two ministries, which has just come up. The fact that we are going to have a so-called part-time housing standard may mean that it is a death blow to a group living, but it is a very inexpensive way to live. In one way there comes a bit of such a state that when these things come time and again, students can experience that the carpet is pulled under their feet. I think it is right, on our side of OKM too — Minister Terho, to press on! — that this group housing standard can be wiped out because it simply does not have a head or tail.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u154	Mr President! When you, Minister Terho, also started as Minister of Culture in charge of youth in the spring, you said in the interview that you wanted to correct the shortcomings in the aid criteria for political youth organisations, and you probably had in mind the situation of young people, especially in Peruvian countries. Now I ask: has this process progressed in some way this summer, and what is the situation at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u155	And Mr Hakkarainen, and then the Minister's reply. Then we'll take another round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u156	Mr President! Thank you very much for the floor. I don't quite understand about this, that culture and art will be presented to 457 million euros and correspondingly for exercise will be presented 166 million euros around round. Why is this imbalance in placing so much money on culture and art and so little on exercise in relation to that culture and art?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u159	Minister Terho, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u160	Mr President! Here perhaps the most came from exercise and sports issues, so I will start there, and when we still have another round, then you can complete it. I believe that the most topical and perhaps most important issue raised here is this working group work that Mr Hjallis and also Mr Elomaa were doing, and many others. Here I would like to say first of all that I welcome the idea of a government report and will take it forward. In other words, some of the questions relating to the development of this very complex and wide field will be answered. The reflection of this working party will be taken into account in all relevant respects, and then the Government report will be carried out on top of it. And on this basis, let us move forward with this field, which the working group described to me, I am sure, quite realistically, quite complicated. More simplicity is needed and efficiency is needed in the resources available. The role of the Sports Council was also overlooked in this working group work. I am not yet taking a direct stand on how this will be organised later. This structure in this respect is also one of these issues to be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u165	Now we will continue the debate on this topic of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u166	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has recently been profiled in Parliament as a supporter of a strict and restrictive alcohol policy, so I understand his indignation at the fact that unfortunately the evening was a long one in the celebration, but I think that the Finnish people would rather take medals and then give Heinonen the opportunity to disapprove of this than the other way round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u169	Mr President! It would be nice if it were so simple to change the Minister that our success in sport would spark a new glory. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and that is why we need to think very carefully about what we can do about it. My question also concerns this social assistance. During the Arahinmäki Ministerial term, it was certainly a good idea for this support to be directed directly to the grassroots level. However, I myself, for example, have worked in the Federation of Species and now in the Government of the Olympic Committee, and the question may also be asked whether all the resources allocated to physical activity are being directed in the same direction, in line with the objectives set by the Ministry. At the moment, the Olympic Committee and the Ministry are working together on this division of labour and are trying to clarify it. At the same time, I believe that consideration should also be given to the effectiveness of all the instruments currently available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u170	Mr President! I will return to this working group's work and to that proposal, to support the most talented young people aged 18 to 22. The working group actually proposed an extra 1 to 2 million for them, and that is an extremely worthwhile idea. We in South Savo have tried this for many years and found it to work, because at that point it is the young person who makes the decision — and often it is an economic question — that he will be able to invest fully in top-notch sport. That way, we may have the peaks that we support them at that very important turning point. This worked out for Christmas gift money last year, and now I ask Minister Terho: is it possible that in the future this would be an integral part of the budget, perhaps even after a year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u171	Mr President! There has been much talk here today about the importance of physical activity and certainly not without cause. This is indeed also a very important issue for public health. A good example of this increase in the importance of physical activity is the Mobility School project, which has also been discussed a great deal, and its aim is indeed to allow comprehensive school pupils to move within at least one hour of school day. The fact that schools have been very well involved in this project has also been highlighted here today — but more than 10% of schools still seem to be outside the project. So there is still a long way to perfection, and I would like to ask Minister Terho what concrete steps he could take to ensure that all schoolchildren have access to increased physical activity. Just a quick second question about the Olympic Stadium: can the Minister tell us what the situation is at the moment with regard to the renovation of the stadium and what the renovation is?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u172	Mr President! I would have repeated my question in the previous round, reminded the Minister of this percentage art and the extension of the plan to proceed with it, and also of the introduction of cultural and artistic services to the social and health sector. In addition, I would have asked about the entire budget for next year in general. Quite often in politics, when it comes to culture and art, we are accused of some kind of weakness or lack of intensity. I would have asked the minister for his view if you looked at next year's budget, specifically as Minister of Culture: how do you see for yourself what is the leading figure in next year's cultural and artistic policy — some aspect of what you think is important, what you are proud of — or what is the tip of what we can also communicate outwards, that we see culture and art as an important part of Finnish society?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u173	President! What you can really be proud of in sports is the Mobility School project. I am very pleased that we have it in the government programme and that 89% of schools are now involved. But it's a cultural question. That is where the biggest picture relates to the state aid reform, which is now under way. The working group is sitting, not yet ready for the presentation, but the interim report has arrived. What do you think, Minister, at the moment of this reform of the VOS, whose objective is very good and worthy, to get the freelance field better involved and a fair place in the cultural field as a whole? Perhaps those declarations, when the working group was originally set up, were somewhat exaggerated in relation to what is the reality, but the objective is in any case the right one. For example, are there additional resources available for this now? Have you thought about it yet, when there are situations in which someone is going to be less than he has been in the past? What's the status?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u174	Mr President! It is a great thing that the system of state subsidies has begun to be reformed on the cultural side — one can say that it is ambitious. Another aspect that I would like to highlight is the livelihood of our artists, which, in fact, today is very fragmented and increasingly fragmented. At the same time, the question arises as to whether we could come up with some new operating models. There is an artist alliance in Sweden where the artist is in a certain way in a paid relationship with this alliance and unemployment benefits are paid to the Alliance. So, in practice, artists are also seen across the boundaries of government as a whole. My question is: at what point are we moving forward with the artist alliance? However, it was highlighted in one of the action plans, as this would also be a good example of the activation of basic leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u175	Mr President! I watched the news from May about Helsingin Sanomat, which indeed have these percentages of how gambling funds are distributed. I would have asked, when about 10% is allocated at the discretion of the Minister, whether he or she will tell you what criteria you may have, or whether it will be shared elsewhere. Then you have pointed out here that you want to improve the livelihood of artists and cultural entrepreneurs, precisely what Mrs Lauslahti was talking about, particularly with regard to copyright and the social security of entrepreneurs. Have you been able to move these forward? Artists are having a really hard time. I know a lot of painters, and living it is really nothing simple. I would have asked about this: how are your projects progressing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u176	Mr President! Top sports are neither easy nor cheap. In Finland, it has been found particularly difficult to train and pursue a young athlete who is seeking to reach the top. In December last year, the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy also took note of and gave an additional contribution of almost EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u179	Mr President! The creative sectors and their potential for creating new jobs are a treasure trove whose door has only been opened a little bit. Music, design and dance, they have reaped a reputation abroad. But what I'd like to ask you about is the international giant record companies. They are also taking over the industry and the market online, where small Finnish operators are in a state of turmoil. Although this is probably a matter for the Minister of Economic Affairs, I would like the Minister to give him my best, that when these big foreign giant companies are supported, it is remembered that small Finnish operators are in trouble here. I therefore believe that national culture can also be at risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u180	Mr President! When you talk about art, culture, exercise, youth, all at once, so often it happens that sports and sports catch a lion’s share of the conversation. But it is important that we also talk about art and culture in Parliament — at the same time, remembering that the hand measure keeps both a representative and a minister away from art: it does not define its contents or what is good or bad art, it belongs to the art field. We must ensure that structures are those capable of supporting artists and making art. From this point of view, state aid reform is an important issue. It's been going on for a long time. There have been breaks. What are your ideas, Minister Terho, on the reform of state participation in cultural institutions? Is it in any way able to support children, young people and adults who use less?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u181	And Mr. Toivola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u182	Mr President! I would also like to raise the issue of the reform of the VOS system. As has already been pointed out in previous speeches, this is an extremely timely and important reform. I would also like to have heard about the timetable and the timetable for the presentations. Then I would have liked to point out, as a thank you, that it is extremely good and important that this money has been put into the work of designing the renovation of the small stage of the National Theatre. Hopefully, then, in the future, we will be able to commit ourselves as soon as possible to the next steps, so that the project can also be carried forward there. I would also like to raise the issue of the av incentive, which has been clearly popular. It is great that this kind has been accomplished, and it is great that it will also be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u183	And Minister Terho, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u184	Mr President! - I have to bring the file with me. — The principle of percentages is now in place when it was missed in the last round. So it really is now set aside for 10 million. I do not directly micro-direct, but in the long term the aim is to establish artistic and cultural welfare services as part of social and health care structures and the monitoring of welfare as a whole. In other words, the objectives are great and lofty, and I also think that the means are good. This is good, new thinking that when art is brought precisely close to people’s everyday lives, it lowers the threshold that sometimes seems to grow far too big, as if for the general public, who do not necessarily feel that they are consuming art or culture themselves, it brings that art into their everyday lives and close to them. So I am very happy about this project. Then we'll go in exactly the order in which I have time to mark things up: Arhinmäki quickly referred to the initial direction and supervision of the Olympic Committee. Of course, they do happen all the time, but the officials are monitoring and, of course, I am not politically directing, for example, recovery issues or others. I am not currently planning any changes to follow-up support. But this hobby guarantee, about which you asked: OKM is doing information and information management here, and is working closely to get municipalities and schools involved as widely as possible. That is what practical work is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u187	And at this point, we move to the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. — Minister Lintilä, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u188	Mr President! There has been a long-awaited turn in our economy. This year we are accelerating to 3% and the growth is wide-ranging. The views are positive across Finland. If we look back on the past, our last economic growth was 3 per cent in 2010, which means that between now and now the newborn has reached school age. Predictions for the coming years are also promising. The direction is encouraging. However, we all need to work towards further escalation of the growth curve. The government's economic policy has three main points. The first is to improve employment, the second is to support business reform and growth, and the third is to provide a solid basis for public finances. Without higher employment, we will not succeed in getting public finances on a solid footing. The improvement in employment, in turn, requires that our industry is able to renew itself and thus to create more jobs. The government will continue to pursue an employment policy that has led to more and more unemployed people getting jobs. Employment has not yet improved at the same rate as the economy is growing. A stronger turnaround in employment will be expected in the coming months if the old signs are true. The increase in employment has increased slightly, but the pace is not yet sufficient to achieve the government's employment objective. The availability of skilled labour must not become a barrier to growth. For example, the bridge agreement proposed by the rapporteur for the positive structural change, Mr Aho, allows for the dismantling of labour shortages. More and more SMEs need to be involved in exports and grow. New entrepreneurs and skilled employees enable Finland to succeed. Ideas must be processed into products and services for the world market. We must ensure that the business environment is competitive and that the financing of growth works. New jobs are mainly created in the SME sector by a small number of growing companies. Faith in growth has been strengthened in the SME field. In the latest SME Barometer, 87 per cent of strongly growth-oriented enterprises believe that the economic cycle will improve. It is therefore particularly important to support the growth and renewal of businesses in order to strengthen their ability to employ. In order to promote business as the most recent activities in the budget debate, we decided, among other things, to facilitate the right of the unemployed to start business with unemployment benefit and to focus further efforts on promoting business transfer projects. The draft budget for 2018 for the Ministry of Employment and the Economy responds well to the needs of business growth and internationalisation. We have prepared a Business Finland reform to bring together the services of the Innovation Finance Centre Tekes and Finpro. Business Finland lowers the threshold for taking up innovation, product development and internationalisation services when they will be found under one roof in the future. We are putting forward additional efforts to support growth, internationalisation and innovation policy. Business Finland's aid mandate will rise to more than EUR 270 million, which is EUR 30 million more than in the current year. Borrowing powers will also increase by EUR 10 million. VTT’s core funding will also be increased by EUR 2000, while strengthening the expertise of SMEs and growing export sectors in particular. Further funding for universities of applied sciences and R & D will also support the renewal of SMEs. The development of tourism is one of the growth leaders of the government. The Tourism 4.0 project will be supported by €8 million next year. The draft budget for next year also includes an additional EUR 35 million to be used to compile the Fund for Growth Funds — this is the third in order. The goal is that a fund of more than EUR 100 million can be built up to support the growth of Finnish companies, driven by the central government's investment of EUR 35 million. When the fund is born together with private investment, it enables companies to grow a multiplicity of hundreds of millions of dollars. Finally, I would like to point out that the promises made by the friend are being kept. Last December, my predecessor promised you that his successor would take care of the continuation of regional transport aid, and this has happened. Regional transport aid will continue next year and the following year. Mr President! Here is a brief overview of the budget lines for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u189	This speech should give rise to a small debate and move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u190	Mr. Speaker! This government proposal and the Minister's speech enable the section to approach this issue quite differently in the preparation of the budget than a year or two earlier. The enthusiasm that is in the ministry will certainly be taking hold of us too, and the government has responded well to the wishes expressed by the section over the years in terms of content and subject matter. We have listened to over 60 experts and plenty of statements, and our work is on a good basis. There are so many sectors here, and especially warm thanks for that promotion of tourism, which we have given serious attention to, both in terms of demand for labour and in terms of appropriations. I thought I'd find a larger amount of money for tourism, for the future, for Business Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u191	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction and for the positive news and, in particular, for your investment in exports and innovation. But my question actually relates to this system of export promotion. You are talking about Business Finland and how it will change, develop and hopefully even grow. But at the same time, when we have cut the foreign affairs administration, our embassies network is not as strong as it used to be and at the same time our rival countries are investing more and more in exports and export-driven growth, how you believe, Minister, that with the change in the name of Business Finland alone we will be able to acquire the skills — which we now have been failing for a few years — that can make growth so sustainable that this growth, this good economic growth,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u192	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that entrepreneurship is now being facilitated while the person depends on unemployment security. This is a clear step forward in what has been done so far. I too would be interested in this export promotion — that Business Finland will be in force when Tekes and Finpro’s operations are combined. Have we got the guidelines yet? How will SMEs in particular be able to obtain advice and support through this new system? In addition, I am still interested in the project of looking into changing summer time in schools. You mentioned, Minister, that tourism is supported and progress has been made, and that is an excellent thing, but one problem is that summer time for Finnish schoolchildren is different from that for the rest of Europe and it causes difficulties for many sectors, such as tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u193	Mr President! In recent years, the Finnish tourism industry has grown and internationalised faster than other industries. Tourism income has been more than EUR 14 billion for several years and can reach up to EUR 20 billion by 2025. The number of international tourists and comparable tourist incomes have doubled in the 21st century. Tourism is the only export sector whose consumption takes place in Finland and which pays VAT for its activities. However, the state's efforts to promote tourism have remained rather stagnant — you mentioned, Minister, that EUR 8 million. I would ask you, Minister: would it be appropriate to have a longer-term plan to promote tourism to Finland and perhaps a small improvement in this budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u194	Mr President! You said, Minister Lintilä, in the spring, that it was not possible to cut corporate subsidies and come back to them in the autumn. Well, despite your promises, they were not actually returned to them, and the government's message has been that cutting corporate subsidies is difficult. Is it really the case that cuts in education, cuts in R & D funding or even cuts in development cooperation are easier than cuts in enterprise aid? This is despite the fact that according to researchers, according to economists, and even your own ministry officials, there are many business subsidies in Finland that should be reduced. You couldn't even find a cheese schmuck, even if you're in the bourgeois government. You are convening a parliamentary working group on business subsidies, but it does not affect the 2018 budget. You are aware, Minister, that this is the kind of use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u195	Mr President! Research and R & D expenditure remains at a worryingly low level, although research and R & D inputs, in particular through Tekes, have been found to be the most effective and effective form of enterprise support. The current structure of business subsidies is more conducive to the preservation of the old than to the construction of new ones, although it is precisely the creation of new solutions and new jobs that should be supported by business subsidies and industrial policy in particular. In fact, the idea often arises when old-fashioned business subsidies are lobbed out loud, that who would speak for unborn jobs and non-born industries. Who would speak for the future? But it has been decided, Mr President, to set up a working group on the reform of business subsidies. I hope that doesn't mean that it's buried and nothing is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u196	Mr President! Contrary to what Mr Vartia said here, it seems to me that it is a matter of political wisdom that parliamentary consideration should be given to this development of the business support system. The Green Left has labeled these business subsidies very far as they are old-fashioned, but we must ensure that our support system is fair compared to the competitor countries and that they can operate in the same way on the international market. We should not be naive here and think that we should give up subsidies and expect something to be good for us. This was a really good and wise decision. Then, thank the Minister for the continuation of the transport aid. This is where the Treasury every year tries to cut it, but it's great that it goes on. The amount of 5 million is small, but it is very important for companies in Northern Finland, including sawmills, as they come closer to the same line as companies in other parts of Finland. It is absolutely essential that this support system should continue in the future. Then thank you, too, for your good attitude towards Finnvera's resources,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u197	Värderade Talman! Tack till ministern för en bra inledning. — Just a few comments: When public R & D investments are targeted here, I think it would be good if it also looked at a little how these private companies are investing in research and development on a market-based basis, that it is in some sense and that it is involved where market-based it is worth participating. This will lead to these internationally competitive concentrations. The Minister has also spoken very much about artificial intelligence, and this was a good thing in The Economist magazine that summer. I think it was that by 2030, the world's combined GDP would grow by 16,000 billion using these new things. You also spoke of an artificial intelligence strategy earlier. Is there something new to tell? It would be interesting to listen to. Finally, perhaps we could also thank the Minister for his support for this next phase of the Kvarken liaison project. It is of strategic importance to both the marine industry and the energy technology industry than may be understood. That will probably come back to in the amending budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u198	Mr President! Since May, we have had the Presidency of the Arctic Council and the Arctic Economic Council, and the leadership of the EU in Arctic matters is right for us. Looking at history, the Northern Dimension was incorporated into EU policy in 99 C.E. For example, in the field of environmental policy, billions of projects were launched, such as St.Petersburg's wastewater treatment plant, and as a result our small and medium-sized enterprises received supplies. We would now need a similar boost in these Arctic matters. For example, the Arctic line, the north-east cable, Highway 21 and many other infrastructure projects should be mobilised. How do you come, Minister, to promote these Arctic issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u199	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. For Lintilä, on these many positive policies, which are linked to your ministry's remit. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has just sent a competition proposal for electricity support for renewable energy to the consultation. According to some experts, the aid seems to be largely for wind power companies. According to estimates, wood and other bioenergy sources are unable to cope with wind power under the conditions presented. For example, the percentage of applications used in installations must exceed 90 % and the production must be committed for more than 15 years. It is a long time from the point of view of the availability of both the plant and the raw material. Energy companies should not build combined heat and power production under the conditions given, even if it is the most profitable for society in terms of exploiting natural resources. So I ask you: can you, in this context, assess these competitive proposals and perhaps assess whether the Ministry can correct them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u200	Mr President! A brief market economy defence from this red-green edge to the bourgeois government: The market economy is a brilliant system. It efficiently allocates resources where they are worth using. It is not too much for us politically to decide which sector is doing well and what is not, because, in general, those resources are being sought from productive sectors and transferred to less productive ones. In other words, we are destroying value with it. I would prefer to encourage the bourgeois government to help businesses by, for example, reducing the tax burden on labour, because the money you collect must be taxed first and it causes damage. This is the mechanism. When you speak in favour of these subsidies being paid, it completely forgets the disadvantage that arises elsewhere, and there is no economist who defends the current kind of business aid. This is such a huge amount of money, and when we and cats and dogs are looking for savings elsewhere, would this not be a good place for the bourgeois government to save money?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u201	Here, Mr Rantakangas, answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u202	Mr President! If the Green Supporters This speech was heard outside Ring Three,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u205	Mr President! When you talk about corporate subsidies, you have to think about what the purpose is, what they are used for. We Social Democrats believe it is important to think further about innovation reform, industrial and industrial restructuring, but at the same time we also need to think about raw material efficiency and emissions. I went to the Outokumpu Tornio steel factory and heard and saw with my own eyes that it was the world’s largest recycling center for steel — that is to say, reusable steel. It is a very important observation because it shows that current energy subsidies are also capable of directing its development correctly and also of affecting emissions. The same applies, of course, to these ship subsidies, because if we think that we do not have compensation subsidies for passenger ship personnel, that would in practice mean that no ships would fly under the Finnish flag, and it would also be of great importance from the point of view of the national economy. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u206	Mr President! Minister Lintilä analyzed the economic turn and rise with the right tunes. Now it seems that the regions' prospects in this respect are slowly becoming more enlightened, at least such information has come to light in the last few days. Southwest Finland here is particularly well-equipped, that is a great thing. And that is where the former Prime Minister, Aho, in his report, offered this bridge agreement procedure, which would essentially eliminate labour shortages, but would probably also try to boost growth there. You have pointed out that this bridge agreement procedure could be extended to the whole of the country, with the specific features of the regions, of course. And while you are, Minister Lintilä, the unconquered king of economic predictions, could you be a little more specific about how this extension to the whole country could happen, and with what timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u207	Mr President! For this business support debate. Representative Rantakangas spoke about the division of Finland and the Vapaavuori line and all the irrelevant things that have nothing to do with this matter, this is a miscommunication of the debate. In short, when discussing these inefficient corporate subsidies, the best experts in Finland have said that this is a loose money issue, it could be used better, and the minister's own officials have published this report, which says quite frankly that this money could be better allocated. This is quite an essential speech in the sense that if we have savings to make, it would be a good place to start, and it would also be good for the government parties to catch up on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u208	Mr President! Erkki Virtanen, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, wrote in his column on Yle this morning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u211	Mr President! First of all, a brief statement to that recent debate is that we do not have a prosperous Finland without the whole country being involved. But then to this bioeconomy. Of course, wood plays a crucial role in the development of the bioeconomy in this country. Innovation funding is essential for this. I was looking at Tekes' last year's guidelines — Tekes plays a key role in this innovation funding — and they point out that the bioeconomy reflects the need for the renewal of the forest and other process industries, where large companies play a key role. On this basis, how does the Minister now assess what this policy means in practice? Does this, as it were, exclude such new bioeconomy startups and their funding? In other words, does this policy in practice mean that innovation funding for the forest sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u212	Finally, I would like to respond to Mr Turuse, and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a few minutes. Then let us continue with the debate, there are still a few, not many, that have been asked to reply. — Mr Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u213	Mr President! Indeed, a parliamentary task force has now been set up to check out these company subsidies. I welcome the fact that it is parliamentary, so that all the parties, the parliamentary groups, will then be involved. On the other hand, it is also extremely important that, if this work produces fruit, then it is committed to more than government periods, with a little longer time span, because yes, business subsidies and many tax solutions and things like this are extremely important for the operating environment. There shouldn't be big swings like this. These energy issues belong to Minister Tiilikainen, but I heard that a position has already been taken here on the issue of this new temporary production aid for renewable energy. Where is it now? According to my information, it has been consulted — or is it still in the consultation? — and is coming to Parliament gradually.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u214	For the Minister at this stage three minutes and then again — a few questions have already come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u215	Mr President! A few questions, indeed, will be asked very quickly. First of all, the chairman of the section, Juhantalo, really does have enthusiasm in the ministry, and we want to develop the sector. The 8 million will therefore be additional funding for tourism, it will be additional, and 8 million will also be available for the next year. So we got an extra 8 plus 8 in the middle row. Mr Skinner — exports and innovation — then asked where we can find knowledge and growth in the destination country. When we set up Business Finland, we will have together Finpro, Tekes, it will also release resources for new targeting. Then we will be able to apply for the priorities that are central to exports. And, of course, it will play a very central role. The representative, Mr Kauma, also referred to improving the advice of SMEs and increasing exports. Our problem is that our exports are big business-oriented. SMEs must be better involved in the export market. I believe and trust that through this new Business Finland it will be easier for them. That threshold is lower to go along with it, and we also have a corresponding person in each province who comes from there to help with this. You also asked me about the assessment of summer holidays, which I have put in motion through my own ministry. Its investigation is on the move. In other words, from the point of view of tourism, it is intended to see how the transfer of summer holidays for schoolchildren would be affected and what its significance might then be for the national economy. Representative to Kiviranta also for tourism: So it's an increase, the 8 million. And as far as tourism is concerned, it is currently the fastest growing industry in Finland. Then to this business support, Mr Vartia, Yanar, and I think there were a couple of other things. I'd be happy to expect from you what your options are. With this report we will also be able to launch an international study of what international aid is, that we are in the same competitive market. I also want to know how the Finnish paperman will cope in that situation if we radically change the subsidies for our energy taxation. There was a reference to ship support. Ship support is a subsidy that is currently marked in the collective agreement and in the kiky agreement. It is quite clear that the government will not touch such a situation if we want to keep the Finnish ports open. Mr Sarkkinen also referred to these business subsidies. Strand had a research and artificial intelligence strategy. Both are extremely important, extremely central, and will be very strong priorities. The AI reports come in October, which attracts a great deal of attention internationally. Now, President-in-Office, if you don't mind, I will continue with the next speech. Half the questions were left here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u216	Mr President! Thank you first of all to the Minister for this realistic and positive approach as soon as he accepted the Minister's appointment. Not everyone in Finland believed that we were growing, and that is how it is. We have a lot of work to do to achieve this target of 72% employment, and we hope that these employment measures and problems will be resolved. The Minister must also be commended for the fact that last year, when the aid for innovation was cut off, it was discovered that it was a mistake. Now 30 million more have been added. In particular, this reform, which is what Business Finland is about, is welcome. Personally, at least I can see that when the MEK ended at the time, the tourist operators did not have a real interlocutor. I hope that these ambassadors from the previous debate will also be strongly involved in this export of Finland. What is also interesting is that we will receive 35 million new money for industrial investment in this growth fund and thus receive more contributions, in fact innovation aid, to this growth fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u217	Mr President! I would like to continue with this business support debate a little further. On the other hand, I can well understand, for example, Mr Vartia's frustration about how many of them are there and how few of them have been reduced, even though we have been talking about this for a long time. I myself have considered the support of wind power in particular, but I have often received an answer that they are tied to long-term contracts. The same obviously applies to many other subsidies. Now that this parliamentary working party has been set up, I think it is a very good option, but on the other hand I am also a little concerned about whether the result will be a plus or minus sign, where it will end up. I very much hope that results will be achieved there. Then there is another question on this point. I will also continue to discuss exports. I have heard from other Nordic countries, particularly Sweden, that there large companies have taken over small and medium-sized enterprises, which they then help the world with. When we have a big problem here too, that SMEs cannot really get there on their own, do you think, Minister, that we could take the lead in good practice in other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u218	Mr President! I would like to pay attention to two things. Growth, investment and employment have picked up somewhat, and that is a good thing. But it is good to remember that we still have very serious problems with exports of high technology and high processing and that it is not at the level we should be aiming for. We need an innovative, knowledge-based, export-driven growth strategy, and this in turn requires longer-term growth conditions that can be supported by research, product development and innovation. Although research and product development funding has now been increased, the cuts are much larger and the overall impact is not what should be achieved. For business aid: let us make it work now so that at least something can be transferred here to research and product development, the Tekes side, first of all. Another issue that I would draw attention to is the challenges facing work and workers in the future. It is a long-standing story and it would therefore make sense to set up a broad-based working group with a mandate to deal with a wide range of issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u219	Mr President! Real exports are important when Finland does not get out of the hair by pulling itself, as has been said many times. Mr Kääriäinen referred to the bridge agreement on the west coast, where there is a good bet. There, too, small towns — Rauma, New Town, Pietarsaari — have a good bet. Indeed, exports are partly based on a lower cost level, cheaper living there and a very good workforce, and that is something we should appreciate. I mean, it's a ship's order. Representative Vartia could say that we would not have orders for ships in Finland unless there was a state guarantee in these. It is very important, there will be 7,000 jobs, perhaps 30,000 jobs over the next five years. Here we come to this mobility of labour, which is a key issue. We must be able to promote labour mobility. Would such a Swedish model of migration aid for taxation now be a good new instrument that would be necessary to get people to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u220	Mr President! I hope that the key word and clue of the Group on Enterprise Support will be an impact assessment, i.e. it will be possible to shift the focus of business subsidies to business subsidies, and specifically to research, product development, innovation. I'm sure there's also some of those impressive targets outside Ring Three. Mr President! There has been talk of vocational education and training today, and education is increasingly also an industrial policy. The fear on the ground is that the skills of graduates do not meet the labour needs of companies and the skills of graduates may be at a low level, so that they may not be directly employed by all young people and may be an obstacle to business growth. The budget also includes cuts in labour market training in vocational education and training, although retraining could help to alleviate unemployment and mismatches. How does the Minister see this situation in vocational education and training as having an impact on the labour supply of companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u221	Mr President! There has been a debate on tourism, and it is true that we have quite a lot of growth in tourism. These growth figures are in particular in Lapland and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and, according to my information, in Eastern Finland as well, now Russia's intensified economic situation is starting to revive Russian tourism a little again. In this context, I am concerned about how the so-called Central Finland could be better able to get to this hard-hitting of tourism, the interest that Finland has in Central Europe and Asia as a tourist destination. How can we help now, even through these good additional efforts that will be made — Visit Finland has become a lot of praise, it is a good operating model — so that Central Finland can also be included in this good growth and absorption of tourism, and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u222	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to join in thanking you for the continuation of transport aid. It is indeed important for the companies in the north. When you look at Sweden there is ten times the level of transport aid compared to Finland, and this is a considerable competitive advantage for Swedish northern companies. And, of course, I would like it to be possible not to have to fight about it every year, but also to be able to raise the level with some time span. But then it's a shame to shut down the Barents Center. It was one of those wood chips that, however, took companies to get to know each other in advance and prepared companies to be ready when the projects started. And this was then decided to end, which provided all information, for example, on what calls for tenders from Russia would become. The response of the TEM officials to this was rather harsh that now you can look online at those calls for tenders in the future. This is not enough. I believe that Finland should seriously consider setting up a new Barents Centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u223	In this debate, I will give Mr Vartia, the section president, Mr Juhantalo, and then the minister the answers. Let us then see whether we can continue or move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u224	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, you asked what will be answered by a paperman who will be unemployed if the subsidies are cut. In principle, I believe that it is not up to us to answer anything. Around 200,000 jobs are lost in Finland each year, but new ones are created. The fact that we are politically choosing the jobs that we want to protect through subsidies is not, in my view, our task. It is our job to ensure that as many new jobs as possible are created. My party is more moderate in terms of how business subsidies should be cut — my list is quite long. But I admit that when subsidies are cut, it cannot be done at once, big enough, but it must have a clear programme of how they will shrink over the years, just as the right to deduct interest on mortgages, for example, has been reduced. In addition, in the direction of the city center: Representative Rantakangas said that the lights would go dark outside Ring 3, if company subsidies were cut. All right — if business aid is based on regional policy, then it should also be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u225	Before the section president, Mr Rinne, you have the reply. Then Juhantalo, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Lintilä, you are not only Minister of Industry but also Minister of Corporate Governance. With regard to this theme, I would now like to ask how you see the VR-related entity from the perspective of ownership steering. What does it mean from the point of view of state ownership, from the point of view of the value increase in ownership, from the point of view of the owner's profit? How do you see that without significant investment in rail transport, competition can provide passengers with a better future? These are important issues that need to be considered specifically from the point of view of corporate governance. It is particularly important — now that VR has contributed between EUR 85 million and EUR 150 million to the State each year — what will happen to the return on ownership in these changes. What is your assessment, and what is the Ownership Steering Unit’s assessment of these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u227	Mr President! Although the importance of exports has been mentioned on the sidelines, the total number of exports to Russia has been forgotten, which has grown quite unwittingly since last year, when it was 6 % negative, 32 % negative in the previous year, it has been 19% positive for the first time in this spring period, namely exports to Russia. It also includes the SME sector. This is a great honour for the reform of the Russian export organizations by the government — St.Petersburg The restructuring of the Finnish Chamber of Commerce, the East Office and so on — and has done a great deal of work to achieve this. And what is important is that Finnish food companies that have once been etabolized to Russia have also received:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u228	And now, Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u229	Mr President! Let's pick up the last one we didn't finish. Ojala-Niemelä asked about Arctic affairs. These — the northern line, the cable — are very important. Now that we are still the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, we have an excellent opportunity to raise them, and they will be raised. Mrs Hautala asked about support for renewable energy. This is now a matter for Minister Tiilikainen, but it is currently in the consultation process, and it is now, of course, a place to influence it. Mr Rinne asked about regional policy in urban areas and how the surrounding region was doing. In Finland, the infrastructure works everywhere. There are no successful cities without a successful environment. We will continue to develop the whole country, and this has always been the case and should continue. He asked about the Aho Bridge Agreement how it could be extended to other areas. It can be modified in all those areas. Hopefully there will be a positive structural problem in as many areas as possible. It is my earnest hope that we will modify it according to the needs of each region. After all, it is a matter of bringing the players in the region to a common table and the state's representation, and also of taking action to achieve the best possible result for each region's solutions. Congressman Korhonen asked about big companies and Tekes. We are currently in a situation where 77% of Tekes' funding goes to SMEs. In other words, it cannot be said that it is a large company. And then the basic situation is that we will need companies as big as small in Finland. You can't use Tekes to start putting them in the package separately. Representative for Turku: Parliamentary Group — good. In my opinion, one of the best aspects of the parliamentary group is that this information is now available to all parties involved. By the way, it may very badly affect some when the information comes what all the business subsidies mean. There's social housing, there's public transport and so on. By the way, I think there was additional support for construction in the green alternative budget, there was additional public transport subsidies... What else did you have? I can't think of anyone else standing here, but there were a lot of them. I agree exactly with Mr Ihalainen; innovation funding is definitely the key issue. And the second, this problem of matching: a completely central bottleneck we have. We had the last encounter problem group in 2007, but then the recession came and solved that problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u239	Now, let's go back to this debut for a while. Here I have comments to make: representative Ihalainen, representative Turunen, representative Pirttilahti, representative Kauma, representative Skinner, representative Hakkarainen and representative Kiviranta. These things go, and maybe even a little bit more then. — Mr Ihalainen, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u240	Mr President! I will return to this encounter with workers and jobs. This negative structural change really needs to be turned positive. That is why we need measures and a number of measures at the same time: housing policy, education policy, pend-up measures, so as not to create a situation where our growth and employment are becoming a barrier to this lack of matching of labour. That is why this is a big social issue, and that is why it is also good to think that there would be a partnership there to bring about its positive structural change and a form of partnership agreements or bridge agreements in all regions to overcome these challenges. With this I just wanted to emphasise how important it is to start work like this even with a view to the next term of government programme. This problem will not be solved in a year, but we should find common solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u241	Mr President! That's news for tonight too, isn't it? In my opinion, this is the news that the Greens say to the paperman that nothing is said... [Department : No interest! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u242	Mr President! It is worth pointing out now what is being said to the paper worker who is going to be unemployed, if business subsidies are cut back, what is being said to all those unemployed who remain unemployed because we have an ineffective system, or what is being said to the taxpayers who are being taxed more than necessary, and the money is being distributed in an inefficient way. I would like to emphasise: every year around 200,000 jobs are lost in Finland. New ones will be created, but the higher the tax rate we have, the fewer of them will be created. It is much more effective to help businesses by keeping taxes on labour in particular as low as possible. That will not be possible if we tax money, distribute it to companies, and, as scientists have examined, economists one after another say: this is an economically harmful activity. That is why I would ask that you also feel pity for those jobs that are not born.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u243	Mr President! The debate is kind of like a discussion at municipal council level about whether a business transaction is effective or not. I see here that it is better first to look into this matter in greater depth and then start throwing away these business subsidies. Indeed, we have one bottleneck where we can make innovations in Finland into a product and business. We have Slush, which brings foreign investment and so on, but very easily these innovations go out. What's the answer to this bottleneck? The positive thing at the moment is that young people are more enthusiastic about starting up businesses than they were in the past. That should be answered. A very good thing now for the ministry is that we are also going to clean up these changes of ownership, and I hope that we will succeed. But one big thing about it is that we should continue to dismantle that red tape of change of ownership and proceed under that sector. I still see the importance of how the new Growth Services Act will contribute and make it more effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u244	Mr President! When we want to go to the heart of the debate, I would now like to go back to this situation in the SME sector. We certainly agree that we want the Finnish SME sector to grow and internationalise. Then why do we have a problem? We used to have so-called strategic excellence centers in Finland. Last year, the SDP proposed to your predecessor, Minister, the introduction of a so-called stand model to support the export of Finnish SMEs. We therefore proposed making choices not only for the bioeconomy, but also for the sectors that are currently in demand in the world, and creating a whole in which SMEs can also participate. Of course, we also have a problem with the fact that we have too few of those big locomotives compared to the competing countries. So I ask you: are you now prepared to consider this stand model proposed by the SDP?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u245	Mr President! I certainly have nothing against business subsidies, on the contrary, and thank the government for having done a good job in terms of the economic situation, but I want to address them. Of course, I got a partial answer from the minister, but such an example: Transport subsidies we have are based very far on the fact that there are spending-returns, but when you go to sparsely populated areas, among others, in Kuhmo, then you leave for 30 cargoes a day but that city may need three transportations a day. After all, it is in a different position than some company in Western Finland, Southern Finland, where there is an all-out return. For example, has such a matter been taken into consideration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u246	I will give the floor to the representatives of Kauma, Kiviranta, Louhelainen and then to the Minister for 2 minutes, and then to the next section. — Mr Kauma, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u247	Mr President! The business aid issue is certainly not as simple as what some Members here want to believe. For example, the French defence industry would not have been born without the support of the State, including the Chilean wine industry. The question is essentially whether we decide to support certain sectors or to support certain technologies. For example, GPS technology has emerged from the fact that the US State decided to support the air force and the army in the development of this system in general and, as we know, it then spread elsewhere. In other words, the question is that neither should we make it difficult for Finns to succeed in the world by cutting down. That is why it is very important to reflect on this issue in this parliamentary working group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u248	Mr President! In this debate, we have already overlooked the support system for passenger shipping, which, in practice, allows three shipping companies to receive several hundred million euros per year. This is an overwhelming competitive advantage, which is achieved through the non-taxation of value added and excise duties as well as through the payment of crew costs. Restaurant and hotel entrepreneurs in the mainland are unable to respond to this competitive advantage. Timo Lappi, CEO of Matkais- ja Ravintopalvelut Mara ry, has written on this subject: "It is impossible to justify subsidies to travelers from the point of view of central government finances. Why does the government support dinners and alcohol consumption at the ship’s restaurant? Why does the state support foreign travel rather than domestic tourism? Why does the state support the acquisition of alcohol abroad?" So, Minister, what do you say to the entrepreneurs in the tourism and restaurant sector in the mainland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u249	Mr President! State ownership policy is based on a socially and economically sustainable result. State property is used effectively both for the active development of existing ownership and for the creation of new business. SoteDigi was set up to develop the solutions of the national customer and patient information system and other digital solutions in social and health care. The capital of EUR 90 million will be invested in SoteDigi Oy and is an example of the new financing element of the new development. Minister, do you see that SoteDigi is moving in the right direction and is able to respond to the ict challenges of social welfare reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u250	Minister Lintilä, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u251	Mr President! Let us start with Mr Ihainen, the problem of confrontation: in my opinion, it is absolutely central, absolutely central to the growth of Finland as a whole, how to remove this bottleneck of the problem. There is housing policy, there is education policy, there is partnership agreements — all of these must be taken into account, and this is certainly something that needs to be tackled and resolved on a very broad front. And I am very prepared to discuss it with all the parties involved. Turunen asked about Päijänne-Saimaa channel. I think the next speaker, Mr Berner, knows more about this. Vartia, economists on business subsidies certainly think so. I asked the various parties in the mid-term debate for proposals to cut back on business subsidies. They came and everyone hit the neighbor's property. It's not easy, it's not easy. Everything must remember predictability, stability. The State must also be predictable and stable in terms of investment. For Skinner on the stand model and the fact that we are too little involved in the SME sector: This new generation is no longer talking about export trade, but they are talking about international trade, and I have such a keen belief that those who do so are less and less using those elements of the state to do so. And I trust and I also believe that there will be a new impetus for this issue, but of course the state and the state will support it in every way they can. Mr Hakkarainen, there is no change in the criteria for transport subsidies. Representative Kiviranta, as I said, vessel support is included in the collective agreement, in the kiky agreement. I'm not going to interfere with the ship support. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u252	We're moving to the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. — Minister Berner, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u253	Mr President! The Government proposes approximately EUR 3.4 billion for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The draft budget is in line with the Government Programme's guidelines and further efforts aimed at improving Finland's employment and competitiveness. In particular, they relate to the rehabilitation of debilitated corridors and the creation of a growth environment for digital business. Standards that prevent development have also been dismantled and dismantled. The renovation debt programme for basic bus maintenance agreed in the Government Programme will be continued. At this stage, it can be said that the correction debt has already been reduced by the 2016 measures and the good direction continues. EUR 453 million will be spent on the write-off of the repair debt next year. The state aid increases in private roads will continue next year, with EUR 10 million. Almost EUR 0.5 billion will be spent on infrastructure development investments. New development investments will be launched in four locations: Ring I, Laajalahti section, West Metro extension access arrangements and Vuosaari and Kokkola seaways, which will be deepened. The Government has also decided that one or at most two development projects will be prepared so that they can be decided in the spring 2018 spending limits debate. In addition, the Government has decided to improve transport connections between Hailuoto and the mainland by means of a life cycle model. The annual fee will in future cover the operating costs of the ferry. A decision to launch the Hail Luoto will be taken in 2018 in addition to the draft budget. In connection with the draft budget, the Ministry of Transport and Communications will submit proposals for the continuation of the halving of the fairway fee and the abolition of the rail tax in 2018. The presentations will boost economic growth, support employment in railway and shipping industries and reduce the cost burden. Mr President! The promotion and exploitation of digitalisation in improving productivity and effectiveness is seen as a strong red thread in the entire draft budget. Communications networks and services are mainly produced on market terms in response to demand. Public funds are used to ensure access to basic services. In addition, the adaptation of the media industry in the transition phase will be promoted by streamlining regulation and budgeting. Most of the communication appropriations, approximately EUR 508 million, are transferred from the budget to the State Television and Radio Fund to cover the public service costs of YLE. In next year's draft budget, the funding of YLE has been transferred outside the spending limits. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to: EUR 2 million is proposed for support for news and up-to-date activities in the public interest channels. The aim of the aid is to ensure the diversity of news activities and alternative sources of news on television reaching all citizens and to encourage the expansion or start-up of news and current activities. In order to increase the security and operational security of the digital society, EUR 2 million is proposed to strengthen FICORA’s capacity to support citizens, business and state administration in information security and privacy-related preparedness. Mr President! In the spring 2017 spending limits debate, it was decided to invest EUR 100 million in the measures of the Government's energy and climate strategy between 2018 and 2021. EUR 16 million has been earmarked in the 2018 budget for the implementation of the strategy, for transport activities. The aim is to target emission reduction measures in transport in a balanced way so that the impact on business life, on different regions and on different categories of mobility is reasonable and targeted as evenly as possible. Electronic transport and changes in the way urban areas move are promoted, inter alia, because people living in rural areas or driving old cars alone would not be paying for emission reductions. A total of EUR 6 million is reserved for procurement of full electric cars and conversion of gas and flexifuel vehicles per year. The development of public passenger transport in urban areas will be supported by EUR 3.5 million. The change in people's mobility habits will be supported by an increase of EUR 2 million in rail transport. The construction of the charging and distribution network and the electrification of urban logistics will be supported on an equal regional basis by EUR 4.5 million. In addition, the Government agreed in the budget debate that EUR 8 million will be reserved for car scrapping premiums for 2018. Mr President! Finally, I would like to highlight a small but even more significant issue in terms of the amount of the euro. The EUR 1 million investment in the compensation of the weather radar network in the draft budget for 2018 is critical, as the current network does not yet cover Finland as a whole. In fact, the weather radar network is comparable to the transport and communication network, where the maintenance of infrastructure ensures the functioning of society and creates a platform for service production. The network has become the most important measuring network for the safety of weather and conditions in air traffic and road transport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u254	This may give rise to a few replies. I now call on the representatives who want an answer, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u255	Mr President! We will be dealing with next year's budget, but it is completely impossible to deal with just one year's budget without a view of what is happening in the long term to transport. And now I would like the Minister in this debate to finally give us answers as to whether the model you are running for competition on the railways is chopping up VR, now the most sensible and the best model possible. For example, Eero Hemivaara, the first official of the Prime Minister's Ownership Steering Unit in Kauppalehti last week, can say, if not completely, then quite a knockout gave to these plans of yours. He notes that this will not bring benefits; on the contrary, this will have major disadvantages for the state's ownership value.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u256	Mr President! The Sipilä Government wants to invest and develop the whole of Finland with the resources that come from our provinces. Accessibility is a guarantee for all investments, exports, entrepreneurship, and that is why all these new bus projects will bring precisely the resources we need to the regions there. Thank you, Minister Berner, for all these fairway projects which are still being launched and which we can still expect during this parliamentary term. We can be particularly grateful for the investments made to maintain the transport network. It is now putting nearly EUR 500 million more as a key project package than in previous years, i.e. it is a record year in transport investments, including in the investments of the lower-tier road network, when we talk about the employability of wood supply, bioenergy and food production. That's why this coming year's gonna be a hell of a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u257	Mr President! The Finns thank you for the scrapping fee and ask how the traffic charge is progressing. We are a little concerned about this for long-distance travellers. Similarly, with regard to labour transport, we must share the concern of the SDP. The Finns would now like answers from VR. What is really worrying is the public perceptions, and the fact that the regions are moving competition and organisation is also questionable, because there are no provinces yet. How, then, when it comes to national sections, can the provincial boundaries go? Now I feel like I'm getting a lot of speed. It was supposed to be "Finland's OK," but it's not just "Finland's For Sale"?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u258	Mr President! Much has been said about security in recent days, and today security also means cyber security. It is therefore very good that EUR 2 million will be added to FICORA’s cybersecurity activities. In modern society, if the bits don't move, they'll soon run out of power plugs and cash from the vending machine. This has been the case in Ukraine, where a state-level cyber attack on the control systems of electricity companies has already cut off electricity twice. But is EUR 2 million really enough to protect the Finnish information networks? It's an unfortunate little money in these games. In fact, the consultation of the Committee on Transport and Communications in the spring revealed an acute need of at least EUR 5 million. My question is: does Finland really need to be subjected to a serious online attack before sufficient funding is provided for the cybersecurity of Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u259	Mr President! In this area of administration of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I am particularly warmed by the idea of a continuation of the correction debt programme and an increase in private road appropriations. But I would like to ask the Minister: do we have any specific theme, perhaps issues relating to the safety of light transport routes, which we could raise next year? At the same time, I would also like to hear about this regional reform: what does it bring to this private road funding, and how will it be managed in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u260	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Berner, for your good work. You have put many things in motion that have long been expected. The repair debt on our roads grew for years, and now it has finally been translated into a declining career, for which I thank you very much. The stakes have also come to the lower road network, which has certainly had to be done for a long time. In your time, they have been made. Thank you, too, for returning this scrapping fee. It's regenerating our fleet. It makes our cars safer and it is also a good sign that taxes should also be reduced. The reduction in the car tax that was made, in fact, has increased profits. The car dealership has picked up and, as a result, more profits have been generated. Mr President! I personally welcome the fact that things are also being set up on the tracks. People are not happy at the moment with what is happening on the tracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u261	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for channelling resources to the private sector and for the fact that the Northern infrastructure projects have also received state funding. This is indeed important if we are to keep Finland as a whole inhabited and vibrant. But my concern is that, apparently, the government's line is a little bit that everything should also be based on market conditions in sparsely populated and long distances in Finland. Although the market is happy to be created where there is demand, basic services such as mail or public transport must also be accessible where it requires financial support from society. I have to ask you, Minister, is there any point in splitting up VR from the point of view of central government finances when, according to estimates, the value of VR would be up to EUR 500 million and competition would only be beneficial if investments in the railways were made in billions. Minister Berner, where will the income deficit resulting from the break-up of VR be reduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u262	Mr President! We have just adopted transport emissions targets for 2030, according to the interim report of the Parliamentary Corridor Working Group. The important part of this is the substantial increase in public transport and, in particular, the increase in the share of rail transport. It also requires rail investment, Minister. There are few of them in this budget. Our network is 90% monorail. In the light of the debate in the Section for Transport, a national double track strategy should definitely be drawn up, as the bottleneck is currently at least Orivesi-Jämsä, which is an important channel for industry, and the main section of the railway line is the Seinäjoki-Tampere. What do you think of such a double track strategy over the parliamentary term and its preparation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u263	Mr President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is certainly a sector which has sufficient opinions and views on where to allocate the scarce euro available. This is a fact. The Government's transport and communication policy is indeed now creating the conditions for the development of Finland as a whole, i.e. employment and economic growth in Finland as a whole. In my opinion, it is very good that, among other things, basic infrastructure management has been invested and will continue to be invested in the future. The growth of road repair debt can be stopped, and that is a good thing. It is also a good thing that the entire road network will receive, among other things, an increase in the level of state aid for private roads, which will amount to EUR 10 million next year, and it will indeed be necessary. The whole Finnish road system really needs basic refurbishment, which I think we all have noticed. Of course, we would have liked to see more new bus projects, but the euro is scarce. I hope that, in addition to housing, the needs of industry and industry will also be taken into account in the transport routes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u264	Mr President! It is important that the government has now adopted subsidies for the conversion of gas and flexifuel ethanol cars and the promotion of electric cars, but I want the Minister to assess whether these measures are sufficient and in line with the Paris objectives. I would also like to point out that if, for example, you put gas cylinders in your car and turn it into a gas car, the car tax may rise when the car weight increases. Are you also going to synchronize car taxation in a climate-friendly direction? Mr President! I would like to highlight the fact that the government's recent cuts of EUR 13 million in commuter rail traffic have severely paralysed traffic throughout Finland and especially along the coast of Uusimaa. It would be particularly important to get the track in order and to return to normal rail transport. What are you, Minister, doing about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u265	Mr President! It is very important that work is now being done in the whole country to repair the routes, and that 453 million for the whole repair debt is a good thing. There's a lot of feedback coming from that truck side. The lower network is also hit by heavy consumption in the transport of the bioeconomy. There are also these new projects here. In eight years the Hailuoto bridge will cost itself back, nothing at all, but I hope, of course, that when a couple more projects are decided during the parliamentary term, there will perhaps also be the opening of the main route of Western Finland, the Thirds. Similarly, of course, on the railway side, as Mrs Wallin mentioned, that Orivesi—Whämsä would be important and, of course, in time also an additional track between Helsinki and Tampere. Some projects are really justified and it cannot be said that they should not be done. As far as car charging is concerned, that is a good thing, but let us not forget biogas. It will be important in the future, and biodiesel will be important in the future, even though it seems to be in a little headwind in the EU. Some low incomes have been in trouble,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u266	At this stage of the debate, I will give a reply to Mr Strand and then to the Minister for the first three minutes — more of them will then be granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u267	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u268	Mr President! Thank you for these questions and comments. The opening of competition in rail transport was already decided in 2015 in the Government’s interim question answer. Studies have been carried out almost two years since then and it has been estimated that opening up competition will bring more benefits to society than society will lose. It must also be borne in mind that it is a question of opening up competition, not of privatisation, and the fact that state and VR-owned capital is being made more active has proved to be useful in all the countries where competition has been opened up. Representative Turuse, who was no longer present: 6 million have been invested in the Saimaa Canal, planning bridges is made, and Päijänne can be reached by boat in Kouvola in order to promote tourism. Representative to Merelle: The scrapping premium has been agreed in the parliamentary working group for further progress. It has also been estimated that congestion charges are currently being settled there. In this context of opening up competition in rail transport, it has been estimated that in the future the regions will be able to be the organisers of transport and will then also be able to organise regional transport. This has actually been the case in all the countries where rail transport competition has been opened up. As a general rule, regional traffic has also been generated. Representative Plant, you stated that cybersecurity is a major challenge of our time. I can only agree with that. We have now requested and proposed that the Cyber Security Centre and the Finnish Communications Agency should receive more funding and that it should now be increased by 2 million per year. This is certainly not enough, and work on this issue must be continued, including awareness-raising. Mr Pakkanen asked how the safety of the light transport routes will be invested in the future. We have a project called Käpy, where walking and cycling will be promoted, and there is a Government resolution on this. In this context, a whole package to increase the safety of light roads will also be assessed. As far as regional reform is concerned, it is hoped that there will be separate funding for state aid for private roads, but there is not yet a final government decision on this. Mr Hänninen, you asked how services can be developed in sparsely populated areas. I personally believe that it is precisely by enabling different and diverse service provision that we will be able to make more money available for purchasing where it is needed, and where the market can operate, market forces will also be able to provide the service. Mrs Wallin, you said that we need more than parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u269	Let's go back to the debatt, and I'm gonna try to draw a lottery... — Mr Rinne, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u270	Thank you, Your Honor. It's quite clear that we need to improve VR's operations. Customers are rather dissatisfied with, for example, the availability of tickets and keeping schedules and things like this that require development efforts, and they need to be taken forward. With regard to those studies: If I have correctly understood their content, the opinions of those consultants, in order to benefit from the competitive process, it would require a significant additional track to be built, the volume of traffic to increase and the price of tickets to be affected. If I have understood those explanations correctly, it means in practice that VR’s value, as has been said here, will be significantly reduced and VR’s ability to generate revenue for the state will be reduced by 85 to 150 million per year, as has been said here. That is how I understood that these consultants, experts from outside bodies, those who carried out this study, were evaluating them. Now that you are shaking, Minister, I ask you: what do you base this position on?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u271	I give Minister Berner an immediate response to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u272	Thank you, Mr President. All in all, reports have been made, you can say, eight copies. Four of them have been carried out by external consultants, carried out by Ramboll, Carnegie and BCG, and the opening-up of competition has already been assessed in the past by the liquidator, the European Commission, the Commission regulator and also the Ministry of Transport and Communications. All in all, surveys have been carried out over several years, since 2012 we have been going through surveys. It is clear that more competition can be done in such a way that the level of service can be increased, shifts can be increased, which also reduces the price paid by customers, and thus improves the service up to a certain point, so that the current railway capacity is sufficient. This has been assessed by representatives of the Commission as well as by other actors around us. There are other studies, of course, but it has been up to us to draw conclusions from these reports and then to justify them. We have analysed all the studies and also reviewed the key values on which we want to proceed, and we have also drawn synthesis from them. The Ministry has not progressed on the basis of one study but on the basis of an analysis and conclusions of all eight studies. In addition to this, it is also clear that if we want to double the number of passengers, then there will also be a need for investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u273	With regard to this ministerial speech, with one exception, all the representatives of the SDP group present rose up, and when the group president is standing all the time, I will give Mr Lindtman another reply. Then we will move on to the broader spectrum of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u274	Mr President! There are a wide range of studies here. One is one that you have ordered directly, without competitive tendering, and then there are those that have been put to tender, such as this Boston Consulting Group report, which has come through the tendering process and which has clearly estimated that the model you are now pursuing will cost society millions and millions. What matters now is how you respond, because the model you are currently driving has been evaluated and the model will collapse VR's ownership value. It will cost society either as lost income or as rising ticket prices. Someone pays, a taxpayer or a passenger. All these promises of what this will mean, Minister, have been torn apart in these reports. I ask you once again, when you did not answer: what do you answer the criticisms of the owner-control unit, Mr Hoylovaara, and why have you moved?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u275	Let us not go beyond a minute's timetable in this debate. — Minister Berner, you have exactly one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u276	Thank you! — First of all, there has been no transfer of the civil servants in the management of ownership, but the Prime Minister’s Office has the right to appoint its representatives, and in this case they have chosen to appoint their minister as a representative. The second point is that the study commissioned by the Boston Consulting Group and the Corporate Governance Department only considers this operation from VR’s point of view,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u279	Mr President! When we discussed last year's budget in the Transport Section, we said that there has been a return to doing things in this area. It is evident in the provinces, in the cities, that much is now being invested, and this work is continuing. Three things are therefore important in this context in terms of economic growth: not only know-how, but indeed these investments which are important for the export industry and then labour mobility. By this I am not referring to the construction of steering wheels, which is also supported by the state in Finland, but should now really be invested in export routes. The report by Esko Aho mentioned important projects for south-west Finland, such as Turku Passway and Ysitie. There are other very important export routes in Finland — in Central Finland, in various parts of Finland — that should be put in order. Here's what I'm gonna do for funding. We now have a working group working on it, and in order to really get many, many projects going next year, I would like to ask how:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u280	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Minister Berner, for the money allocated to the extension of Ring One and the extension of the West Metro connection arrangements. Then the question of the Tallinn tunnel. Even a few years ago it seemed rather utopian that anyone would seriously present a tunnel between Helsinki and Tallinn, but now it seems that two different parties are competing for it. One of these is one that has been erected with private money, mainly from China. In fact, the Helsingin Sanomat reported last week that a project under Peter Vesterbacka is on the way, which is a bit like a competition for this FinEst Link project, in which both the Finnish and Estonian states are involved. I would now like to ask you, Minister, how you see the reality of these projects. The idea of Vesterbacka’s project is that construction activities should start next year. How realistic do you think it is, and are these projects competing with each other?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u281	Mr President! Thank you for the fact that this government will not shirk its responsibilities but will reduce its debt to EUR 453 million again. On the other hand, as a Member of Parliament in Central Finland, I cannot be satisfied that, despite the Ministry's presentation, Kirri-Tikkakoski road did not move into the budget, although this route is one of Finland's busiest two-way sections, it runs 15,000 cars a day, and it is one of the worst bottlenecks on the Four roads. The Centre unanimously proposed, as a parliamentary group, that when one of the two road projects was raised next year, our project would be that Kirri-Tikkakoski. Can we be sure, Minister, that this project will proceed next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u282	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Minister is moving forward with the repair debt for basic infrastructure management, as we have jointly decided in Parliament. Instead, we disagree, we do not have a parliamentary consensus, including whether we are now developing Finland as a whole. During this term of government, new investments will start at a historically low level of just 0.7 billion. Three times as much money has been spent on those projects in previous government terms. Digitalisation is, of course, the future, but we cannot help but notice the problems that elderly people, people in need of support and even us Members of Parliament have encountered in obtaining tickets, for example in relation to VR. That is why I cannot understand the Minister's will to compete with VR when we have tracks that are already full.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u283	Mr President! The budget proposed by the government for next year for transport is largely positive — perhaps the same concern that Mr Kalmar has for Kirri-Tikkakoski to finally have the next major project, which will then be launched. But the budget debate also agreed on a scrapping premium of EUR 8 million for 2018. Last time cars were covered by the scrapping premium, the cars purchased were low-emission, very small cars. I would then like the decision to be taken now to take into account, for example, a family of four who want to change cars, so that the limits are the same that family members can enjoy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u286	Mr President! There are positive aspects of this budget and then there are those aspects that cannot be applauded as positive quite directly. I'm gonna bring up one that has questions. The government is proposing several million euros for the Hailuoto project, but the formula for that project is not yet final; the general formula for its terraces in the sea area is being assessed by the Supreme Administrative Court. When drawing up the formula, impact assessments must be made on a number of issues. However, those estimates are currently not directed at the island of Hailuoto itself, its livelihoods, community structure, nature. Minister, will you ensure that the environmental impact is investigated in a comprehensive manner both on the island of Hailuoto and on the various points of its maritime area before the decision to launch that project?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u287	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the increased appropriations allocated to the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. A lot has been said here about opening up rail transport to competition, and I welcome this reform. I am particularly pleased to see it, particularly with regard to these low-speed lines. It may become their salvation. One such low-traffic line of importance to the export industry is the Suupohja railway, which at this stage would require an annual allocation of around EUR 20 million in order to replace it in a few years. How do you, Minister, now see the future of these low-speed lines? There is also pressure to bring these to an end, which would make it very unlikely that they would be opened in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u288	Mr President! We have 5% of the traffic on the rails, and I am sure this Chamber shares the view that this share needs to be increased. However, the means to achieve this are different. You, Minister Berner, have proposed opening up the competition to passenger transport. Up to now, VR's income has been approximately EUR 100 million. I wonder what the proceeds are from three separate companies. I have not yet received an answer to this. We have different track gauges and therefore cannot import equipment from Europe, and the rail network is mainly monorail. It is quite clear that without investment in rail, the share of rail transport will not increase. The model chosen by the government has nothing to do with the competition. VR will be chopped up, efficiency will be lost. Where do we get an increase in the service level, Minister Berner?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u289	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the Minister for a brisk approach to reform on the ministry's side. In the draft budget, I took note of the deepening of the maritime routes of Kokkola and Oulu in particular. I was pleased to note that bridge project in Hailuoto, which is a very important project for the people of Hailuoto. There is also a positive aspect of the budget for the retrieval of the basic infrastructure maintenance debt, which I was pleased to note. On the other hand, there would not be so much correction debt if there were enough annual management appropriations. I would like to ask the Minister: how will these resources be secured for the coming year and how will they continue to be secured?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u290	Minister, for three years I have been a crew designer at VR's headquarters, where shifts were planned for train drivers throughout the country. The most important thing in rail transport, as in air transport, is the efficient use of crews and equipment. It will bring cost-effectiveness and prices down. In rail transport, freight traffic is mainly driven at night and passenger traffic by day. Now the model is that these locomotive drivers and equipment can be used both at night and during the day in these work chains. In your model of splitting up VR into three different companies and forming regional monopolies, this synergy will disappear and prices will rise, I say.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u291	Mr President! Firstly, VR’s ability to generate dividends is by no means the result of the train traffic itself, but there are many other factors. But now that this competition is being followed in different roles, I would say, however, that the ministry is making excellent progress here. Here's the hard work behind it. These studies will then be analysed in a number of ways. This has been combined with a very comprehensive working group, with a wide range of stakeholders being consulted. So at least at this stage I am very confident about the progress of this tendering package. Then, of course, it must also be said that, in practice, this tendering model is almost the same as HSL is now coming here in the capital region: there is a vehicle company which will then start to compete with different operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u294	At this stage in the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Skinner and Mr Rantakangas and then to Mr Vehkaperä, Vice-President of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and then there is the Minister's speech, and if there is still room for further action, then we can continue for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u295	Mr President! Perhaps at least one thing we agree with in this Chamber is that we need to look at traffic and the development of transport routes in a longer period of time. Minister, on many occasions we have spoken with you about the European TEN-T network and how Finland will be involved in the plans for 2023. Now, however, it seems that Finland is once again falling short of what is happening in the other Nordic countries, not to mention Central Europe, which is still failing to come up with a comprehensive, longer-term plan that would convince our partners at European level. Could you open up what this is about, or could you open up what we could still do this year, next spring, that we would be involved in 2023 when the next billions will be distributed on this continent for the next ten years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u296	Mr President! Mr Berner will, in a positive way, remain in history. This period will see the transport sector shaken and reformed in an unprecedented way and the traffic management will be reversed in such a way that the repair debt will also be closed. 20 years have gone by when some projects have been launched each year, but basic bus maintenance has been forgotten. And this is the most important thing for the provinces. Of course, big projects are needed, and the Minister will also be in the history that all the key projects in the Oulu region will be carried out at once, but they have been good projects that the previous ministers have not carried out, which has, of course, been regrettable. When Mr Alatalo went here to praise and support other projects, I too am in favour of the 'Ott 4' project, Mr Kirri-Tikkakoski. A very good project and a joint project between the provinces. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that the opposition will be open-minded in this parliamentary work. Do not make party politics, look at this future of the transport sector for a long time. Be ready to accept even open-minded proposals,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u299	At this stage, I promised Mr Vehkaperä a reply. Everyone who asked for at least one reply before that checkup has used it. Since then, there have been requests to speak and we will return to them later. — Mr Vehkaperä, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u300	Mr President! We still have to address VR's situation, the opening up of traffic to competition. Social Democrats, do you accept a monopoly on one mode of transport in Finland, namely that only rail transport is in that position? We have long since opened up traffic to competition on land, at sea and in the air, and now, under the leadership of Minister Berner, we are really looking for the Finnish model of how it will be carried out, and VR will remain a 100 % state-owned company. This is the basis on which we start, and no bogeyman is known to exist yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u301	Now, Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u302	Mr President! Mr Karimäki, we have now received an increase of 2 million in the purchase traffic of rail services for the next year, and we have increased the volume of compulsory transport in the past so that we have achieved very much the level at which we were at the beginning of this reign. We now have a parliamentary working group which is specifically seeking to see how we can develop infrastructure investment in a long-term way, including these sections of the line which urgently need to be developed. However, Congressman Kauma, the Tallinn tunnel is now very much closer to reality than it may have ever been before. Rail Baltica is advancing, while the Arctic Sea is being studied in the north, and they and the Tallinn tunnel form one whole. At this stage, I do not want to judge whether different models are competing with each other. The most important thing is that we are able to create a will here in Parliament to see whether we are prepared to invest in such large and significant logistics projects in the future in order to increase Finland's competitiveness. The Government has decided on 1 to 2 further development projects during this Government term and next spending limits period. According to the LVM's assessment, Tikkakoski—Kirri is a key project that needs promotion, and Highway 4 is our gateway and trunk route, for which we also need good capacity. However, we have clearly, Mr Kymäläinen, launched 15 projects during this term of government, and we still have 1 to 2. It is quite true that our development projects are not at the level they have been at in the past, and that is why it is extremely important that we develop our investment and financing models, and that we also consider this in parliamentary terms, so that our ability to invest will be better in the future. Mr Wallinheimo, with regard to the scrapping premium, the aim is to ensure that we look at propulsion in a variety of ways — gas, ethanol, electric cars. This would also allow larger cars to be used in connection with the scrapping premium. Mr Hautala, the abolition of low-speed lines is not an option at this point. We need to assess whether regional transport can be developed and whether there are alternative operating models that could be such that a smaller and different type of return model could make services more profitable in areas with less traffic today. We absolutely must invest in rail service levels, and our objective is to ensure that we are able to increase the number of passengers to almost 10%. This is also due to the fact that, in terms of purchasing and compulsory transport, we will have a better response when we are able to: [The President knocks ] to tender the service we need. At the moment, we also face the challenge of having no transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u303	At this stage of the debate, I will give answers to the representatives of Meri, Lindtman, Kulmuni, Heinonen, Alatalo, Wallin, Plant and Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u304	Mr President! I would have asked Minister Berner, I'm from New Zealand, about that Hanko- Hyvinkää-Mäntsälä road. That's where we've been waiting for bypass lanes. We talked about the basics and the whole country. Even in the new country, it has been forgotten: when I looked last year, there has not been a great deal of funding for this country. Let us not forget, however, the transversal traffic, which contains a huge number of trucks, but not bypass lanes. That's what I'm hoping for. I wonder: The Finns believe that competition in itself is good if it is implemented correctly. I'm thinking about the situation in Uusimaa. You said we'd get more equipment. We have such traffic in the mornings that I too, when I take the train in the morning, wait for the express trains that pass. I wonder how that amount improves because we need more tracks and they are obviously not coming. If I compare, for example, with bus traffic, it will be easier in itself when it is possible to vary routes, but now that there are no more tracks, the fleet alone will not survive when the tracks are there
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u305	I will add to the previous list representative Juhantalo, which I did not notice before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u306	Mr President! Finally, Minister, on these reports, eight have been made, four before the model that you have been driving and four since, one of which, the one you have commissioned, supports your thinking. What you did not answer was Mrs Wallin's question. Now that you are splitting up, this synergy will be eliminated from both the staff and the fleet cycle. According to the most prestigious and experienced consulting company, this will cost society or ticket prices — or in some cases both — tens of millions, up to EUR 100 million. But, Minister, it seems that, in itself, if competition is properly carried out, as has been the case with freight transport for a long time, it will be useful. But now the benefits of this model of yours are
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u307	Mr President! Indeed, for the first time in a long time, it has been possible to make significant improvements to basic management, but also to get the first very significant funding to make emission reductions in transport, the first money for electric cars, conversions, many important things that Finland achieves its own climate goals. But you have concluded your response to European funding, and when we compare it with the Nordic countries, we are very much lagging behind, for example, Sweden in these funds. If one considers that Finland is going to be President of the Arctic Council for two years and many of our key infrastructure projects are also related to the development of the northern regions, the Arctic, the port network, climate, meteorology, space research, then we should be able to channel that EU funding into these projects to an entirely different extent. What could be done about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u308	Mr President! It is a good thing that the choice has now been made to take a closer look at new transport projects and also to direct money here to reduce basic maintenance and repair debts. That work must also be continued by the next governments, and I hope that there will be that broad common will. We need to find a balance between these two. We need new projects, which have been mentioned here, for example the Southern Lahti Ring Road, which are now starting to move. Mr President! I would also like answers from the Minister when I understand that it would be planned to give up winter speeds. In what way is this going forward? There is really no justification for them at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u309	Mr President! Congressman Skinner spoke of long-termity. For years we have been calling in this Chamber for such PTS plans to be made in Swedish style for the construction of corridors. Indeed, we had traffic reports, but unfortunately these reports were wiped out by the following governments, as happened during the previous government, Third Road fell down here. Traffic volumes and economic impacts should be the criteria for that assessment. In this respect, not only Third Road to Seinäjoki and ports, but also Ysitie is important for exports: it is an important route from Inner Finland to the port of Turku, which does not necessarily need to be deepened, it is already deep enough in itself – it is good in itself for export products, that we also have deep docking projects in Kokkola, Vuosaari and Oulu. As far as the communication appropriations are concerned, the freezing of the index has, of course, been a bad thing for YLE and must now be considered in the future. But it's good that the low incomes got a release,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u310	Mr President! One has to wonder that Vice-President Vehkaperä of the Committee on Transport and Communications has such poor knowledge of VR's competitive situation. Freight transport was opened up to competition already in 2007. Passenger transport competes with air traffic, bus traffic and the use of its own car. VR has lowered prices, the trains are full — as Mr Juhantalo points out, he does not want to get a ticket on Friday. During the five years, EUR 450 million has been produced in different ways for the state. Wait a minute, Minister, these are not enough answers for you. We must return to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u311	Mr President! The development of public passenger transport in urban areas, mentioned in the Transport Network Group's interim report, will take place in the budget as an increase of 3.5 million in public transport support for large urban areas and will therefore be directed towards the urban areas of Helsinki, Tampere, Turku and Oulu. But what is that money going to do in practice? The amount is earmarked for promoting digitalisation and the serviceisation of transport, which means that not quite bus drivers are bought, even though it is in principle public transport support. It seems that the first meeting in the Ministry for the use of that $3.5 million has only been held today. And why is this aid aimed at only four large cities? There is also a lot of work to be done in medium-sized cities such as Hämeenlinna, Joensuu, Jyväskylä, Kotka, and everyone can add a couple more from their own constituency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u312	Mr President! Again, I must thank you that it is great that northern ports, such as Kokkola and Oulu, have also received funding during this parliamentary term, but there is also Raahe, which is a very important port of export, without forgetting Kokkola and Kemi, which is otherwise not in my constituency. But we are an island: security of supply must be guaranteed, and we must ensure that we have a functional and comprehensive port network in summer and winter. I would have asked: Have we done this kind of port network surveying and carefully reviewed those needs, as now, of course, the ships' size is growing all the time and must constantly rend the passages deeper? On the other hand, Minister, I am interested in a lot of talk about digitalisation and the fact that it is the answer to improving the links between sparsely populated areas and sparsely populated areas, how they work in practice, when I too have a situation like this that the phone does not work inside, that we should go outside and talk when the Elisa interface does not work in the remote area. Although I don't live more than 20 kilometers from town, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u313	Mr. Speaker! The events of recent years have revalued the fact that the Pori-Haapamäki section of the track must be re-introduced. The port of Mäntyluoto is winter traffic, there is a gas terminal, and we could use gas locomotives on that track. At the other end is Siläkoski with its products and the minerals of Lapland. The transport of timber to the port of Rauma and the unique mineral processing system in the Pori region in Finland would also be able to get the direct connection they need. It is completely pointless, for example, to transport the products of Äänekoski to Vuosaari in Helsinki via a narrow and naturally narrow Tampere railway station. They would travel directly to the winter port of Mäntyluoto. This section of the track needs to be well clarified and re-examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u314	And the minister will be there for exactly two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u315	Thank you! — once again for this train. International experience shows that competitive tendering is beneficial. It is also supported by a very large number of international competition results. It is not the case that there is only one study that has been carried out, but that there have also been extensive surveys of the results of other countries. In Sweden, the need for State aid has fallen by between 10% and 32%, and in Germany by between 18% and 20%. The number of passengers has been raised, but more investment has also been made, and this has generally been positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u322	And now we're going into the administration of the Justice Department. — Minister Häkkänen, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u323	Mr President! An amount of EUR 941 million is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice next year. Without taking into account variable annual electoral expenditure, the level of appropriations in the administrative sector is EUR 13 million lower than in the current year. However, this reduction is mainly due to a reduction in additional funding for ict projects, an estimated shift in payments for the Wincapita package mainly for 2019 and a slight increase in savings. The resource situation in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice in the current and next year has been secured. However, the situation of the Legal Register Centre is challenging and its economic consolidation measures are currently being examined at the Ministry. The activities of the judiciary are one of the central tasks of the State. The conditions for this must be taken care of at all times. Legal security will be developed on the basis of the Justice Reform Programme and its updates all the time. These measures will ensure the legal protection of citizens, enable justice sectors to focus on their core tasks, reduce crime in society and develop a system of sanctions, and influence judicial cooperation in the EU and in the international arena. The measures will also help to secure a stable financial situation for the judiciary, despite the increase in savings and significant self-financing of ICT projects. The Government has submitted to Parliament a draft budget proposal for legislation amending the law on fines and fines and the law on driving licences, as well as some related legislation. In 2018, the savings on the extension of the scope of the fine procedure will amount to a total of EUR 2.2 million for courts and prosecutors. It is proposed to increase the legal protection of asylum seekers by EUR 2.5 million compared to the level of the current year in order to eliminate as quickly as possible the congestion of complaints against asylum seekers. In the fight against crime, the aim of effectiveness is to ensure effective enforcement of criminal responsibility, to reduce crime and its harm in all sectors of society, and to increase security and public awareness. The organisational structure of the prosecution system will be reformed. The objective is the entry into force of the new law in 2018. The capacity of the prosecution system to act will be improved by additional funding of EUR 0.4 million to combat terrorist crimes and to carry out criminal liability. Prisons, on the other hand, prevent violent radicalisation and extremism. An additional EUR 378,000 is proposed for the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The level change intended to safeguard the capacity of the Criminal Sanctions Agency and maintain the prison network will increase by EUR 5.1 million from the level of 3.7 million this year. The Government has submitted to Parliament a draft law on financial and debt counselling related to the draft budget. The tasks of financial and debt counselling are to be transferred from the Regional State Administrative Agencies and municipalities to the state legal aid and lobbying districts to the Legal Aid Offices in 2019. The transfer of financial and debt counselling tasks to legal aid offices will be prepared next year, with a proposal of EUR 4 million. The Ministry of Justice will continue to develop legislation on the prevention of over-indebtedness and on the status of over-indebted persons. In particular, the development of quick credit regulation will continue and an international comparison will be made of the second possibility for entrepreneurs. The Ministry of Justice also assessed the need for regulation of positive credit information during the autumn. In order to ensure that this preparation is effective, and in addition to other preparatory work and strengthening constitutional expertise, additional resources of EUR 160000 are proposed to the Ministry of Justice for staff. In addition, an increase of EUR 525000 is proposed to the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor in the implementation tasks of the EU Data Protection Regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u324	All right, now is the opportunity to ask for answers, and they will begin with Mr Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u325	Mr. Speaker! Thank you to the Minister for a good report. This draft budget now has an exceptionally positive stance compared to previous years. Of course, there are challenges, but things are moving in a positive direction. There's something I'd like to make sure of. Of course, it is mentioned here that Victim Support Finland receives additional funding and crime prevention, but a very barbaric issue is girls' circumcision, genital mutilation. You have made a good point of making a public statement on this matter, Minister. This is important prevention, isn't it? As far as I am concerned, criminal law is currently in place, but do you intend to deal more broadly with this honour violence, which includes forced marriages, at worst honour killings and so on? And are there any other legislative projects that allow, for example, the exchange of information between authorities, common approaches, training and the like? I would like answers to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u326	Mr President! The Minister is coming to the Legal Committee tomorrow morning to answer this question about the district court network, so I will not go into it very carefully, but I say this as a principle that it is customary for the committee to be able to draw up a report in its own way and not to be subject to the rules of the game when neither the paragraphs are changed nor the statements are made — this is for tomorrow’s information. I refer to questions such as Raahe, Iisalme and Sodankylä. Now to this question of detention. You are well aware that the investment issue in Pelso Prison has been pending for ten years. The Ministry of Justice has systematically been able to prevent its investment from being carried out. You have set up a working group whose deadline expires at the end of October. Is there money in the framework for new investment in the coming years, because it is obvious that investment is needed? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u327	Mr President! There's going to be a lot of reform in the process of enforcement. A working group of the National Agency for the Protection of Human Rights is proposing to merge enforcement agencies, and this report of the Legislative Working Party has been on a wide-ranging consultation. In other words, a single national enforcement office would be set up, an enforcement agency. There is a great fear in the province as to whether offices will be abolished. This means for many workers to be on the road, in the worst case scenario to change places. But the same would happen to the customers, it would be a trip if they had to do business at a distance. So I would like to ask: what is going on here? The second concern concerns this over-indebtedness, which has been a great deal of talk. Today, young people are starting to have quick levers from there, here and there. Now, how do you react to that question of a positive credit register?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u328	Mr President! It is excellent that subsidies granted by the Ministry of Justice, including the maintenance of the Sámi cultural self-government and a number of other important issues, such as crime prevention, have been allocated a reasonable amount of over EUR 8 million. However, the report commissioned last spring by the think tank that promotes the cause of language minorities indicates that the rights of the Sami people are currently poorly realised in Finland. Language learning is not sufficiently available, and in the Finnish legislative process the rights of the Sami people and cultural self-government have been repeatedly ignored in several points. Minister Häkkänen, how do you intend to remedy this shortcoming that the rights of the Sami people are currently being implemented poorly in the Finnish legislative process?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u329	Mr President! I would have asked here when there is money to be spent on prisons: have any resources been made? I have received some communications from the prison staff that, in their view, there has not been an investment in the number of staff, but apparently some type of training in this radicalisation, if I have understood correctly. After all, it does not just increase by training. This is really a problem there. This is how I got the message. Then I would have asked whether the Minister is going to intervene in the measurement of the penalty — the more you commit crimes, the more you always get one third off — and also for the first time. There is talk of the public’s sense of justice, but the sense of justice also includes the fact that the sentenced sentence is sitting down, and then the fact that if you commit more crimes, there would be no discounts. That, in my opinion, was not the case in this case. How does the Minister feel about this, and are there going to be any changes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u330	Mr President! Thank you for the good mention in this section on sustainable development of this response to hate speech, this zero tolerance and the ability to tackle and identify hate crime and hate speech, the use of resources and the fact that the Ministry of Justice will also continue to implement the monitoring system of discrimination and then the first national fundamental rights barometer will be published — these sound like really good goals and things to be supported. But then it must be said that, here too, it seems that the courts will be cut off next year, and we will have to ask whether the resources are sufficient to guarantee legal certainty and to get these cases dealt with within an appropriate time frame. And then I must also express my concern about Pelso: I would like to see a solution as soon as possible and, of course, I would like Pelso's uniqueness to be recognised and that the construction of new buildings should be recognised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u331	Mr President! Thank you, the Minister of Justice, for having very well taken into account these many development needs of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and for having carefully read these. However, it must be noted that, as a whole, this drastic reduction of the district court network in Finland, and in particular the reduction of the seats, is quite exceptional at the Nordic level as a whole. I ask the Minister: How will this regional legal protection be managed in the future when it is thought that there will only be 20 of these places left? More than 20 of the district courts are also leaving. How will linguistic rights be implemented? Then there is this concern about the funding of the Legal Register Centre and also about the poor condition of prisons.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u332	Mr President! This is where my colleague mentioned over-indebtedness, which was also discussed during the last Question Time. Already some 400,000 Finns have default marking. I myself worked in the legal department of a bank and, among other things, in succession, and it was rather unfortunate to see how small a fateful and costly cycle for the individual usually began. It is probably good if we look at a positive credit register, for example, but it would be extremely important to do something about this system of default marking. In my opinion, it is unreasonable for those markings to hang sometimes for years, even though it is the debt itself that has been paid. In other words, when something is done, there will certainly be positive, economic, dynamic effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u333	Mr President! The public's perception of the fairness of criminal penalties sometimes arises, especially when it comes to drunken driving, violent offences and, in particular, sexual offences against children. In my view, these penalties and also the perceptions of the citizens are being evaluated during this autumn. Do you, Minister, have anything more to say about the state of affairs at this stage? Then the second question relates to radicalisation in prisons: We now know that in France and many other European countries, for example, when these acts of terrorism have taken place, there has been a background to the move from petty crime to more serious crimes and radicalisation in prisons. In what way have we in Finland prepared for this type of development?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u334	Mr President! Minister Häkkänen has indeed been able to jump on a moving train. Several structural reforms are also taking place on the Ministry of Justice's side, for example, the number of district courts that have already been raised a few times in this debate, and I am also concerned about its drastic reduction. How is this district court reform going now? Has it now taken account of regional and legal considerations? The Minister should and should be familiar with strong arguments in favour of maintaining Iisalmi's office, for example, based on the proximity of the Sukeva prison and its increased need for litigation and long distances to Kuopio, for example, where more should be built, while there are already good facilities in Iisalmi. It's all around this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u335	Mr President! Minister, your government programme contains a record of the transfer of immovable property from the perspective of Finland's overall security, in other words land transactions on strategically important sites, and I would like to ask: at what stage is the government's work on this matter? Previous studies have revealed, inter alia, that there are 300,000 properties in the real estate system that do not have a personal or business identity code in the ownership data. This information should also be of interest to the IRS. I would therefore like to encourage you, the new Minister of Justice, to play an active role in the preparation of the fourth EU directive on money laundering. It provides for the company to notify the register of so-called beneficiaries and persons holding more than 25 % ownership. Will we have a motion from the government no later than the end of the day?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u336	Mr President! EUR 378000 for the prevention of radicalisation and extremist movements — that does not sound large in itself, but, given the total cost of prison care, this will only increase the expense that foreign taxpayers pay both for free and in prisons. The largest, most modern, expensive prison in Finland is in Vantaa. There already more than half of the prisoners are non-Finnish. Do you know the total number of non-Cantasy Finns in prisons? This figure can then be expressed at the price of one day in prison, which I believe is EUR 180. When do you get caught in a big pig like this and you don't take little pigs like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u337	Mr President! In Finland, the public sector does a lot of things, and it can and should be asked more often what it is justified for the public sector to do. But then there are a few activities that cannot be done by anyone other than the public sector or specifically the state, and that is above all the security sector, the Defence Forces, the police and the judiciary. And, of course, the rule of law is absolutely and without distinction that the law should apply equally to everyone. You, Mr Justice Minister, have rightly pointed out that, thanks to multiculturalism, we have started to develop certain practices in which certain cultural groups engage in violence, for example in the form of mutilation against young girls, sending young girls abroad to be mutilated. How will it be ensured that the law applies equally to everyone and that such perpetrators and enablers of violence are held accountable for their actions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u338	Mr President! I would like to raise the need for a stronger criminalisation of buying sex in Finland than is currently the case. Now it is only criminalised if the victim is a minor or a victim of human trafficking. I would like to remind you that trafficking in human beings is on the increase all over the world and Finland has not escaped human trafficking until now, but its tentacles are increasingly extending to us. However, there are quite a few cases of submissiveness and poverty, lack of participation. We remember, among other things, the case recently when women were brought from Nigeria to prostitution in Finland and so on. In Iceland, Norway and Sweden, the purchase of sex has been completely criminalised. Can we in Finland now consider taking this line?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u339	Mr President! Representative Hakkarainen raised an important issue: foreign prisoners. As I recall, in 2015, we had 16 per cent of foreign prisoners in Finnish prisons, most of whom were Estonians. I find it a great miracle that Estonia cannot safely return these prisoners to carry out their punishment. Similarly, I would like to ask the Minister about the tightening up of the penalties for sexual and violent crimes at what stage is currently being taken here. As I understand it, these penalties are being tightened up. And it is also in the first-time convictions — it is now amazing that if I am convicted today of aggravated assault, I will be convicted again in five years’ time as a first-time offender of aggravated assault. These are such first-time cases, and they should be changed, just as life imprisonment should be life imprisonment, not 15 years on average.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u340	Mr President! The budget of the Ministry of Justice is rather tight and, of course, it assumes that the numerous reforms of the government will go through. But many of them have received very critical feedback in the Legal Committee, including the district court reform. It has linguistic issues, fundamental linguistic rights are deteriorating and distances are also growing. That is a very dubious reform. One of the good things about this budget is that the necessary EUR 2.5 million will be added to the legal protection of asylum seekers. I would like to ask you, Minister, your assessment of whether the legal protection of asylum seekers in this regard is sufficient now that the time limits for appeals have been shortened. Secondly, I would like to highlight the fight against the shadow economy, because there is no mention of it in this budget at all and the fact is that more resources are needed to combat the black economy effectively. How do you estimate, Minister, that this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u341	To this stage of the debate, I would like to give the following speakers the floor: Mr Marin, Mr Biaudet and Mrs Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u342	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Attorney General about three things. First of all, from the resources of the courts to asylum procedures and complaints: what is the way to ensure that sufficient resources are available to deal with these cases, so that processing times do not become excessive? The second question relates to the poor condition of the prison network, which was raised by Mr Laukkanen here in the debate. We know that we have a really inadequate prison network, and here investment needs are significant. How are we prepared for this? Thirdly, I would like to ask whether there are any new proposals or ideas coming from the government to combat the shadow economy, because we know that, through the shadow economy, we are losing money from common funds, so it would be important to tackle it much better than at present. The Social Democrats are coming to this again in our budget option.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u343	Mr President! A lot of important questions have come up here, which I had partly thought about asking myself. Congressman Paloniemi's question about the criminalization of the purchase of sex. I would like to ask: is it time to do a new study of this, because it seems that these crimes are not being investigated very much, even when they relate to the human rights conflicts? In that sense it is perhaps rather problematic that the law that has been enacted in Parliament is not being used, and for what reason, it would be interesting to know. It has been studied once when it was proved, and that may still be the case. The situation of the Sámi sufferers is very tight, and if the rights of the Sámi sufferers to participate in the decision-making process that concerns them can be realised, they must also have the capacity to participate fully in the making of statements. I would ask the Minister whether he feels that this is at a satisfactory level at the moment. The situation in the courts is worrying, and in that respect:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u344	Mr President! Warm thanks to Attorney General Häkkänen for the good work he has done so far. Three points I would have drawn attention to: the prison network, especially in the situation in Northern Finland, the prevention of circumcision for girls and the second possibility for entrepreneurs. Here, representatives of Tolvanen and Rydman on the prevention of girls’ circumcision already made good speeches — nothing more of them. Representative Rantakangas raised this prison situation in Northern Finland. The Minister has put forward a working group proposal on it, and that is a good thing, you took it up already in the spring, and the deadline is approaching the end of October. How, then, is the budget now prepared for the need for these new investments? Then there is this second possibility for the entrepreneur: you have made an excellent contribution to the debate, which is indeed important. How is it possibly progressing, and what are the budgetary implications?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u345	So many questions came up that it would be reasonable for Minister Häkkänen to have five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u346	Mr President! Thank you for the comprehensive questions! I'm trying to sum these up here. Firstly, on the question of the trampling on the rights and human rights of girls and women — cultural, religious or other traditions — and on the subject of mutilation. Of course, there have already been ten years of different action programmes in Finland on this issue, but action is still needed here. Now, of course, it is a matter of being criminalised in criminal law — even when there is little information in the public domain, as if this were not already criminalised — that it is assault or aggravated abuse and that it has been criminalised, but the principles and powers of criminal law do not necessarily mean that it is possible to intervene properly, but that it requires closer cooperation between the authorities, the movement of information from school health care, the movement of information from normal healthcare to the police and, therefore, to prosecutors, so that criminal responsibility is carried out and those people are brought to justice. This is a very complex and multidimensional entity that talks about the activities of certain members of the religious community and whether individuals, for example, have the courage to reveal this crime later. It's not just a criminal code that gets us anywhere. This is a very serious phenomenon, and under no circumstances must Finland allow this kind of parallel social thinking, in which some others live according to some of their own laws. Then there's the punishment for the hardening project. Last week, I have launched a memorandum of estimates which is now going through very thoroughly certain sections of financial crime, certain sections of drunken driving offences, parts of violent and sexual crimes. Now, at the end of the year, a memorandum of estimates will be prepared to draw the conclusion at the beginning of the year on which certain types of crime and types of punishment are now being tried to make these blackmails. In this context, several representatives also raised the question of whether first-time provisions are being addressed and whether certain specific reductions and others are being addressed. All of these are in the evaluation now during the autumn. An overall assessment is now being made of the various mechanisms by which penalties can be increased if necessary. I would stress that research data is used in particular for the assessment of prevention and re-risks, but ultimately the severity of the level of punishment is a social policy issue that belongs to this Chamber. Then questions arose about the linguistic rights of the Sámi. We have the Sámi Language Act before Parliament, and it is now intended to create obligations for future provinces, so that the province of Lapland in particular, which is particularly concerned by this, has obligations to ensure adequate linguistic rights for all residents of the region. In this House, of course, the Constitutional Committee will then set out the final conditions and other considerations as to how the players on the ground must act. Some questions came from the District Court Network. The proposal has, of course, been submitted to Parliament even before I myself began this term of office. In summary, it is about the need to pool some resources in an age of scarce resources. It may not even depend directly on resources, but it is often also a question of having a large-scale working community in the courts, of the ability of judges to specialise in increasingly complex legal problems and to obtain high-quality and firm solutions to the problems of citizens, businesses and organisations, so that credibility and trust in the judiciary are preserved and there is not the dangerous phenomenon that is already taking place, especially in the countries of southern Europe, that confidence in public bodies is falling. Radicalisation in prisons: the amount that is now being proposed is small, but extremely important. We already know from the various terrorist attacks in Europe that radicalisation in prisons and the activities around it are one of the main problems that must be addressed. Foreign prisoners are a matter of eternity. Unfortunately, it usually takes so long for the transfer of prisoners and the technical process that, for some reason, it has not been felt necessary to change small amounts of imprisonment. But you can count on me to find out in detail how we can reduce the number of foreign prisoners in Finnish prisons. Then came the resources of the judicial processes of asylum seekers. This was the subject of an in-depth debate in the government budget debate, and the government parties agreed that, in order to ensure proper and effective treatment, there is a clear need for more re-use of administrative rights and the highest administrative court, so that a high-quality judicial process can be secured for all but also effectively cleared up and dealt with quickly who will remain and who will return. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u347	All right, we'll take another round at the debat, and then the Minister can continue with the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u348	Mr President! Fenix ry Ujuni Under Ahmed's leadership, she brought the mutilation of the girls to a conversation. We have been taken to Somalia, Egypt, Iran and Syria to be mutilated, and it is good that you, Minister Häkkänen, are now getting involved in this matter. Yes, we must strengthen the obligation for health care professionals, school health care providers or nurses or something else to intervene when such a case becomes apparent. This is a human rights issue, and I would like to see all those otherwise active human rights fighters intervene. Risk assessments are an important issue. We should get court-martials binding on them. We have news all the time that professionals say that a person is dangerous, that he should not be released — the right of court to release. Could you, as a working minister, take care of this as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u349	Mr President! By criminalizing an act, society tells us that it is wrong. The aim of the legislation is to influence the change in attitudes and behaviour. A good example of this is the reduction in discipline violence against children and changes in attitudes through legislation. I would like to clarify the question of the representatives of Biaudet and Paloniemi: are there any plans now coming into Finnish legislation to criminalise the purchase of sex?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u350	Mr President! Now that you, Minister, have more than a hundred days gone by, it is possible to go into a little more difficult matters than Question Time. In fact, I would perhaps start with this common topic, namely the quality of legislation and the quality of the drafting of our legislation. How do you now see — since last spring you have been familiar with the Ministry of Justice and the preparation of legislation — whether we have the necessary resources to ensure that Finnish legislation is prepared at the level it should be? My second question relates to the monitoring of legality. We have been talking for years, if not decades, about the relationship and role of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman, for example. Do you have any ideas for developing this role?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u351	Mr President! With regard to the mutilation of girls, the mutilation of their genitals, which has now been strongly re-emerged in the debate on the basis of the Fenix report, I would like to ask when this requires a good flow of information between the various authorities: do you think that the legislation on what health authorities or school authorities have to tell the police, make criminal investigations possible? This is actually the first question when you referred to the need to increase the exchange of information between the authorities, which, of course, I quite agree with. Then another, maybe a bit of a mischievous point of view. When people wanted to ban begging in Finland, some of our constitutional professors said that it should not be denied because it is specifically directed at the Roma and is discriminatory. I wonder how this kind of special legislation, which in itself would be appropriate,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u352	Mr President! In this debate, there has been a good rise in over-indebtedness and its disastrous effects on young people and the tragedy of families in this regard. I would like to ask: How extensive is the preparation of the Ministry of Justice in general for the control of speed levers? And in this debate this positive credit register — what is its situation? And I would like to renew my question of the shadow economy and its effective fight: what do you think are the resources of the courts and prosecutors at present in the effective fight against the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u353	Mr President! You, Minister, have just said that it is not necessarily a question of costs when it comes to reducing the district court network from 27 to 20 — you talked about the quality of the solutions. But the question now has to be asked: has there been such a quality survey, a savings survey since the last district court network was cut off, and what have been the implications for citizens' legal protection? I understand that decisions in smaller district courts have not been less qualitative than in the larger ones. And I would have asked when the farm problems have been solved by expert consultations and also linguistic problems, accessibility problems: are you aware that, for example, there are good courthouse facilities in Raahe — working, moldless — and the staff are well-being there but In Oulu, on the other hand, there is a really large demand for investment to be able to sit there?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u354	Mr President! In this reform of the district court network, it is a question of citizens' legal security. As a deputy judge, I understand that specialisation is important in some respects, but when the district court disappears from the locality, the availability of justice will be considerably reduced: there will be a loss of legal services, and it will have a variety of implications for the locality when distances grow and there will be a need to go for justice on the one hand. I hope that the Minister will have the opportunity to receive this in relation to some of these areas which have been perceived as problematic pain spots. I am talking about Sodankylä for the rights of the Sámi, Raasepor and Porvoo for Swedish-speaking regions, Iisalmi has been mentioned here, there is a new courthouse in theft, and then there are these certain pain spots. That there's still a chance to think about it. But then I would like to ask about the summarizing issues: May was due for the presentation when it will come?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u355	Mr President! It is great that the prosecutors received additional funding for the prosecution of terrorist offences, because the police on the SM side have also received and the sum must not stand at any time. That's the way it's supposed to be. Many things have been done for the functioning of administrative courts: decentralised procedures, additional funding, more staff. Let us hope that these asylum issues, in particular, are moving forward quickly so that we can have decisions, because it is people's business that needs to be decided quickly. I have concerns about these general courts, especially district courts. It is clear that they need to be strengthened, because the starting point is that it would be the first and often the only court to deal with the matter. The permit for further processing is a good direction, and now we have this fine law, which will facilitate the work of the courts. And what is the situation, do you now have any other plans to strengthen these district courts in order to obtain expertise there and strong units?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u356	Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that these reforms, such as the Aipa project or the like, are going a little backwards if they are said to be so. Of course, it is not just a concern of the Ministry of Justice, but it is a matter of concern and general concern for the whole state administration, and it is, in a certain way, linked to these structural reforms. I would like to comment on this judicial office, on which the government has stated that it will be set up. The committee visited Rovaniemi and we said that there was a very good framework: there is law school, there is court of law and district court. It would be excellent if the minister could act in such a way that the main place would be in Rovaniemi — especially in view of the fact that jobs in the state have fallen from the provinces and have increased in Uusimaa, and this is also the substance criterion. Then, last but not least, I know that this Pelso issue is difficult for you and it has not been your fault so far, but from now on, of course. Ten years
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u357	Mr President! Two things. Debt fall: There are constant calls and contacts, and especially these after the recession of the 1990s still weigh heavily on many people's lives. Various reports from the Ministry have indicated that solutions to these issues are being introduced. Is there going to be a partial deleveraging for these victims of the '90s Depression? And here's the point of view of this court office: Now that this reform of the district court is under discussion, would it not be worth transferring this reform of the district court entirely to its new court office? They will then manage and actually see what the real need is, while now this will give rise to a huge amount of debate that is no longer possible with such a small district court network to manage the implementation of legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u358	Mr President! Although the status of the Sámi people as indigenous people has been recognised for some 20 years — which is a ridiculously short time, in view of the fact that this people has been living in Fennoscandia for thousands of years, long before us Finns — the Sámi policy in Finland is not all right and leaves much to be desired, and this is not just a language issue, Minister. The question is that, among other things, in recent years, the Finnish Parliament has taken many decisions contrary to agreements with the Sámi Parliament and also against Finnish legislation. Are you at all aware, Minister, and have the Ministry of Justice taken note of this report, which Magma, last spring, announced, which also presents a very large number of very concrete proposals to the State to correct these shortcomings? Among other things, it is proposed to respect the authority of the Sámi Parliament as the official body of the Sámi and to allocate sufficient resources to the Sámi Parliament to carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u359	Mr President! My question, too, was about the possibility for Sámi bulls to act legally. The second issue was this reform of the district court. Of course, it is true that there are a lot of complicated cases before courts and that requires knowledge, but language is one area of expertise. If language rights are not fulfilled, legal certainty will also not exist. For example, there are two-language courts in Raasepori and Porvoo, where each case can be moved smoothly from one language to another depending on what the parties and the parties need. It seems so sad to break such a functioning system and just hope and trust that someone else will be able to handle it in the future. I would ask if the Minister could consider leaving these services alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u360	Mr President! I hope that the Minister was just out of time to answer my question about real estate transactions. It is unusual that there are 300,000 properties in Finland in the real estate system that do not have a personal or business identity code in the ownership data. Do you, Minister of Justice, act firmly and decisively to remedy this? This debate has not yet raised the issue of the control of removal and the concern as to whether this great task will be confined to the resources and activities of the Ombudsman for Equality and whether the other tasks of the Ombudsman for Equality will therefore be affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u361	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that we have a Minister of Justice who defends the rule of law to the very last. Cultural reasons cannot be the reason for failing to comply with our legislation. I see Svinhufvud's firmness as a staunch defender of the rule of law, and that is the way it should be. But, of course, it must also be the case that respect for the rule of law and our legal system is maintained also for the general population, not least for the people of this Chamber who are in the process of enacting these laws. Just as a few years ago Parliament's groups signed a declaration condemning hate speech, would it not also be time to confirm — when such an idea was born — that a number of political decision-makers are not encouraging to defy court decisions — so that all parliamentary groups together would say that there are no messages from this Chamber that would call into question the Finnish legal order?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u362	Now, Minister Häkkänen, five minutes, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u363	Mr President! First, I will try to answer some of the questions that have just not been addressed. On this overall enforcement situation. That's a bit of a change, too. The restructuring of the enforcement is underway, and at the same time the National Agency is now making an assessment of the long-term outlook for the future of the establishment network. They will now be looked at carefully in the Ministry, firstly from the point of view of how to ensure effective enforcement in this country. It is a priority, and then, of course, all the other principles and criteria relating to that question will be considered. It is also intended to change the structures and practices of operations in order to ensure, in an age of scarce resources, that debtors pay back their money to creditors and recover effectively. In relation to the security of real estate: This issue is very close to my heart because it is linked to the overall security of society. Here we have questions from the Ministry of Justice as such, but also from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior sector, where security is assessed. We now have a working group of experts working on a basic assessment of what kind of legislative changes could be made to this issue and how this phenomenon can be tackled as a whole: whether there is a need for more legislative powers, or whether there is a need for policies which, for example, should be more alert to certain risk assessments. Now all we have to do is find the right mechanisms to properly tackle this problem. The whole of over-indebtedness is accompanied by a number of different legislative projects. The entrepreneur's personal bankruptcy — it's in the study at the moment, in the winter there is more information about it. A positive credit register — we had a good round table with financial market professionals and financial law professionals last week, and about early in the year it is time for conclusions. At the same time, legislation that tightens up fast credit, if necessary, will also be considered. It is very problematic, because we must also not send a message to the public about this Chamber that it is not the citizen's own responsibility to deal with economic matters that is the first priority. Public intervention is increasingly needed, but citizens also have their own responsibility as a matter of priority. The level of lawmaking became a question. The drafting of the law in Finland is reasonably good even in international comparisons, but we now have some problem with the timing of political alignment in very short parliamentary periods for large projects. This needs to be improved in the future. The question of defending the human rights of children and women. Mr Zyskowicz asked if the regulations were in place. Today, I have instructed officials in the Ministry of Justice to go through this situation with the Department of Social Affairs and Health and the Department of Education officials, what all the measures in the current reporting obligations are and whether they are working or whether there are any omissions or omissions, which is why these matters do not come to the attention of the police and the prosecutor, and what other measures can be taken. So the mapping of this is in preparation. The grey economy: the role of prosecutors is very important and, of course, there is always a need for more resources for prosecutors. As far as I am concerned, the grey economy should be eradicated more and more. But we have a pretty good situation, we still have some grey economy resources at the bottom for the prosecution, and we now have a small increase in prosecutors' resources for terrorism regulation in general. But the role of prosecutors and the judiciary in this fight against the shadow economy is as important as the role of the police, that is to say, this chain thinking, which Mr Tolvanen, the chairman of the Legal Committee, has just said here: if resources are added to the police, then it should also be added to the prosecutors and the judiciary at the same time, so that the whole process works effectively and people are brought to justice and the law and order is carried out in this country. The concentration of summary matters is to be brought here very soon and will respond, among other things, to what the chairman of the committee pointed out that district courts are able to focus on the essentials and that all actors in the process are able to concentrate on the essentials. Situation and funding of the prison network: A study is ongoing on the permanent farm solution for Pelso and the northern region, which will be completed at the end of October, and a longer-term solution for funding will then be considered by the Government. Then I am sure that in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights we will come back to this whole. The Court of Justice is to be set up on the basis of a decision and, above all, calls for the money that the Minister of Justice needs on this basis and is under discussion. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u364	Now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u365	Mr President! We also have a Government proposal here to amend Articles 5 and 8 of the Act on customer fees for early childhood education. With this proposal, purchasing power will increase and around 6,700 family members will be exempt from early childhood education fees. Reducing customer fees for early childhood education will enable other consumption of families with low and middle incomes and multiple children to be increased by an equivalent amount, i.e. purchasing power will increase and thus facilitate the financial situation of families. The biggest reductions in payments are targeted at the lowest income categories. For families in the first income category, payments are virtually eliminated and, as a result of the change, 6,700 families would be transferred to the zero pay category. In the proposal, the customer fees for early childhood education will be reduced by around EUR 71 million by changing the income limits of families and by reducing the contribution to the second child in early childhood education. This is certainly a good proposal from the government, even if, of course, it is not enough. With this proposal, raising income limits will reduce customer fees, especially for small and middle-income families. The biggest rebates apply to families with multiple children. Payments will decrease for all families who have paid a fee below the maximum fee and for almost all families whose income level has just been in line with the maximum fee limit. In addition, thousands of low-income families are moving to free early childhood education as a result of the change. According to the proposal, the customer charge for the second child is proposed to be adjusted so that the fee would always be no more than 50 % of the first child’s monthly fee instead of the current 90 %. Currently, the maximum fee for the first child is 290 euros. The maximum fee for the second child in the future would be EUR 145 instead of the current EUR 261. According to Statistics Finland, families with multiple children are the least on high incomes, so the majority of this reduction is targeted at families with low and middle incomes. I also welcome the fact that the incentive trap effect will be reduced. The incentive trap effect of customer fees for early childhood education is the main concern of single-parent families with low incomes and families with multiple children. In general, an incentive trap means that working is not economically attractive. As a result of lower early childhood education fees, family incentives are reduced. As the incentive trap effects fall, it is estimated that some 4200 people will be employed by 2021. As a result, the need to use early childhood education will also increase but at the same time tax revenues will increase and social security expenditure will decrease. Mr President! I also welcome the extension of the right to psychological and curator services under the Patient and Student Care Act to all undergraduate and preparatory students. Students covered by the current Student and Student Care Act will receive approximately 49,000 more students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u366	Mr President! We have moved from a violent dive of the economy in the last parliamentary term to a strong rise and a sense of the future. The economy is growing, exports are pulling and unemployment is falling, and, best of all, this positive development concerns the whole country, the various regions of the country. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Mr President! I have always stressed in these debates on the budget that this country is only living with its full strength. There is no prosperous Finland without the whole of Finland being involved, and vice versa: the whole of this vast country has enormous potential and resources that we can use to improve the momentum and well-being of the national economy. Public finances are divided into regional economies and employment development in all regions is therefore important. If the regions are to succeed in their employment objectives, we must be able to work together to support the development of their attractiveness. That is why we need to be able to support, for example, competence in Finland as a whole, but also to compensate for differences in income collections. That is why, among other things, the system of state aids and the compensation system associated with it is in the interests of the whole country, even though it is often misunderstood, either unintentionally or intentionally. I believe that this budget proposal is balanced and fair in many ways from the point of view of people and regions. The priorities of the proposal are quite rightly employment, care, knowledge and security. Debt reduction, a number of improvements to basic security, investments in services and an exceptionally strong reform policy will continue in a country that has not been reformed for far too long. A few specific items of the budget: First of all, our domestic agriculture is the foundation of our entire food system. It is therefore unreasonable for our agriculture to be subjected to a number of factors which have led to the extremes of profitability and resilience. The operating environment of the farms has become more predictable due to the higher price volatility of products and inputs. Of course, there are positive things in the draft budget for our agriculture, such as improving the situation of compensatory payments, but it is clear that we must be able to increase the share of the market in agriculture. The poor position of producers in the food chain must be corrected. It is essential to improve the functioning of food markets through various means, including through legislation and contractual practices. This is where the government and Minister Leppä are moving forward. President! Finally, the municipal policy of the government. The municipal policy of the government has largely restored the confidence of the local authority towards the state, despite the extensive reform of the taste-sites. Local government finances have strengthened significantly for various reasons. Municipalities themselves have made adjustments, positive economic development has strengthened the tax base, and the government itself has strengthened the local government economy. It is particularly important that the drastic central government cut-off line in the last parliamentary term has been abandoned. The government has no longer transferred the sovereign debt problem to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u367	Mr President! As has already been said in many speeches, this rapid improvement in central government finances is all praiseworthy and wonderful, and the government has played its part in the fact that the situation is now going better than anyone could have expected. There is one thing I would have raised here. The reduction in household income has been one of the most important factors in terms of employment and the decline in the informal economy. The other has been these repairs subsidies, including those for lifts and other repairs, which have brought forward the installation of lifts in old houses. When a new law was adopted on these repair grants in 2016, it was a mistake to make old lifts unhindered. And now that page 821 of the budget book states that'support measures for housing are aimed at making it as effective as possible for older people and people with disabilities to live in their homes', it would be good if the Section of the Committee on Finance took note of the fact that there is now a small addition to this text that this money, which is already earmarked for the budget, can be used to make old lifts unhindered. These are the kind of elevators that in time have been made so narrow that you can't fit in with a walker, and then it's very dangerous to be in them. However, in many cases the elevator shafts of these houses are so big that without any additional structural renovation, a new lift can be installed there. This was a little run-in right here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u368	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke about the economy last week when we started this budget referral debate. That's all I'm going to do. I would like to comment on Mr Laukkanen's speech as chairman of the Housing and Environment Section of the Committee on Finance and I welcome and support the proposal. It makes sense that money could also be used to upgrade this type of elevator. That is quite justified. I would like to raise a few points in this referral debate: Origin labelling of food, which has now made significant progress by this government: We have extended the origin marking requirements to foods such as the meat potato sauce box and this type of food, and also to the fact that the origins are marked even if the animal has been slaughtered in a different country, for example, from where it has resided. We are also in the process of preparing a regulation in which the labelling of the origin of food would also be compulsory for lunch restaurants, cafés and restaurants. That is a good line, and it is good that we are moving forward in this direction more vigorously than has been achieved in the EU. As far as the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is concerned, I would like to highlight the mooses that were not mentioned earlier in my speech. They're gonna be a lot of feedback. We have an exceptionally strong white-tailed deer population and also a lot of elk, and we need to be able to build more elk than is currently being done. Otherwise, in that debut part of the administration, I was able to go through it. I was also talking about sports in the past, and I would like to highlight this report on sport and sports. It would be good if such a report were made, as has now been presented, for the first time in Finland and to look at this whole thing. In the State Sports Council, chaired by the Olympic champion Tapio Korjus, the issue has been considered and specifically how to influence cross-administrative mobility and sport. We have had a visit to the State Sports Council by all ministers — I think they all have now — to tell about their own field of government. It has become clear how much could be done if these barriers were not so high. Our aim is also to have a discussion initiative on physical activity and sport now under the leadership of the State Sports Council in this Chamber so that such a topical debate on sport and exercise can take place. A lot is happening on the Ministry of Education and Culture's side. Early childhood education fees will be reduced. Early childhood education fees for middle-income families fall by more than EUR 1200 per year, for 6,700 families early childhood education is free of charge and the first experiment is launched on free early childhood education for five-year-olds. I personally think it is important that we should be able to guarantee free early childhood education for these five-year-olds as soon as possible throughout Finland. I also welcome the emphasis on teachers, both by increasing the training of kindergarten teachers and by developing further training for teachers. These are things that can be done a lot, and it is good that they are now being done. It is also the first time that this government has addressed the fact that secondary education is no longer free of charge in this country. It is good that we are now looking at the costs that will be incurred there. It's not just the materials. It is not just the costs of matriculation examinations, for example, but also transport costs, transport costs and housing costs. When it is said that we want to have a second degree free of charge, as it should be, it must also be about going to these schools, that study is possible for everyone regardless of their place of residence. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Parliament for finding a majority of parliamentarians and parties to put the country in order. Now it looks like we're on a good growth path. It needs to be confirmed that we will achieve
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u369	Mr President! This autumn's budget debate is taking place in a completely different situation in Finland from that of just over two years ago. Finland was then in serious distress, both economically, politically and mentally. No decisions were made, reforms did not progress, Finland was in a closed knot in many ways, in a downward spiral in terms of the economy and employment, among other things. Under the leadership of the Sipilä government, a turn has been made, but the gloves really cannot be nailed yet. Economic growth must continue to be fed and hence employment. At the same time, debt is constrained. Debt is halved on an annual basis from 5.4 billion to just under 3 billion euros. Reforms are progressing: for example, the government will ensure progress in the reform of social welfare and health care by allocating more than EUR 300 million for next year. From now on, it is important to ensure that as many Finns as possible and the whole country participate in Finland's rise. This is what the centre required in the budget debate, and this is now reflected in the decisions of the budget line. Next year's budget will focus on employment, knowledge and security. Of course, there is not yet too much allocation, which is why next year's budget has shown some relief in the benefits of those who are just underprivileged. Mr President! Bad decisions have been made. However, it is essential to note that our country's competitiveness has substantially improved. Sweden has already been reached and Germany is being achieved through a competitiveness pact and wage moderation. We are finally able to renovate what we have been waiting for for for many years. In next year's budget, the government will continue to pursue an employment policy which will hopefully lead to more and more unemployed people getting jobs. This line is worth continuing, as there are now nearly 50,000 fewer unemployed job seekers than one year ago. In particular, young people's unemployment will be tackled with a new grip. A further 1000 student years will be offered to vocational education and training in order to facilitate youth unemployment and also to meet a wide range of new skills needs. Additional places will be specifically targeted at the unemployed and young people at risk of unemployment. The Government also invests in young people's low threshold service model, or Ohjaamo operations. In addition, the provision of pay support for under 30-year-olds will be increased in connection with periodic interviews. These are all, therefore, in order to improve the employment of young people. Mr President! In the context of a small allocation reserve, the budget debate also took care of the weakest. There is going to be an increase in the number of guardians, early childhood education contributions will be reduced, and the guaranteed pension for the lowest-income pensioners will be increased. Every euro is important in the situation of those receiving a guarantee pension. Justice was also held to. The solidarity tax remains as it is today, the well-earned participates in joint efforts, and this must be the case. Mr President! Finland’s security environment has changed and citizens’ sense of security has weakened with previous cuts. The government is restoring internal security to its proper value, its role is definitely strengthening in our operating environment. The decisions taken last spring and in the budget debate are about to increase internal security by around EUR 100 million. This will enable the police, the protection police and the Border Guard to improve their ability to function. Special targets are the prevention of radicalisation and the fight against terrorism. In addition, in order to speed up the processing of asylum applications and asylum complaints, additional appropriations will be allocated, and this is an extremely important target. President! The budget for next year is, overall, a successful whole. The government is getting closer to the employment rate target of 72% and the end of debt. The measures taken will also bring us closer to sustainable public finances, among other things the economic situation of municipalities proves this, but achieving this will require determined implementation of the agreed reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u370	Mr President! A human future budget is needed for this moment. Restore government cuts from education, research and the weaker. Frozen social benefits and cuts in medical and travel allowances must be reimbursed. Additional funding will be provided by reducing subsidies that are harmful to the environment. There are strong grounds for this, as the VATT study shows that many business subsidies are ineffective. It makes sense to target them in another way, to favour SMEs and new creative, innovative entrepreneurship. Environmentally harmful subsidies, such as the refund of the energy tax on large-scale industries and emissions trading compensation, also prevent our important task of combating climate change effectively. The time for major structural reforms is now, for those who put people to work. The coordination of work and social security is central, as is the reform of family leave and the change in the focus of taxation. Work is taxed less and more than pollution and consumption. Tax reductions should be targeted at low-income earners, as the Kiki Agreement is the most targeted for low-income public workers through drastic cuts in holiday money. Many kindergarten teachers are doing more and more of their valuable work when both day care and salary have been cut. I want a child-friendly Finland where we invest in the prevention of exclusion from day care. The right of the child of the unemployed family to full-time care must also be restored, and education must be invested at every level. The government cuts EUR 0.5 billion from education and now seats EUR 50 million in permanent funding. Vocational education and training has been the subject of the most severe cuts. Many young people are excluded when not everyone can find a place for education after comprehensive school. However, local education is being reduced from vocational schools. Government plans to increase the teaching in companies sounds good, but the performance is without concreteness. How to get companies to offer young people practical training? The negotiations on the basis of the government's university cuts are shocking. It is estimated that as many as 2,500 jobs are disappearing from universities alone. The foundation on which Finland’s well-being has long been based, high knowledge, threatens to crumble. Research resources have also been weakened by reducing Tekes subsidies. Students escape the children of deprived families when the government has made the student support system more loan-oriented. Loan-oriented student support is not suitable for a modern age where working life is unstable and fragmented and there is no guarantee of permanent post-graduate work. In an equal Finland, the needs of older people are taken into account and combat pensioner poverty. The government’s planned increases in guaranteed pensions are not enough to cover many drastic cuts. It's unbearable for an old man to take off his meds so he can afford bread. We have to leave this world to our children in a better condition than where we got it. The sixth extinction wave is real. There is an urgent need to increase nature conservation areas and protect species. The appropriations for the acquisition of natural protection areas shall be returned to at least 2015 levels, After two thirds of them have been cut off by the Sipilä government. The government is delaying the mitigation of climate change. A new market-based auction support is needed for renewable energy already. In the world, solar and wind energy is growing at such a rate that they will soon be profitable in themselves. One bottleneck for climate-friendly traffic is the poor condition of the tracks. A more ambitious investment programme must be used to boost the renovation of railway projects. Renovation of the shoreline of Western Uusimaa is essential in order to provide well-functioning daily rail transport for those living along the railway line. State aid for commuter trains, i.e. purchases of train services, must be reimbursed. The government did great damage in cutting this important support in people’s everyday lives. In the fight against the shadow economy, the government does not propose any additions, although it is an effective means of increasing tax revenues in the national economy and improving the operating capacity of responsible companies. Additional resources are needed for courts, prosecutors, police and tax authorities to fight against the shadow economy. Politics is a choice of values. We have heard that ministers are agonizing about painful cuts, even though the income gap is growing, the rich are getting richer and the poor are taken the most,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u371	Mr President! Today we have discussed next year's revenue and expenditure estimates for many different administrative sectors, and it goes without saying that I would like to say a lot, but when the government has often asked us social democrats for constructive proposals, I thought I should concentrate on them. Firstly, Mr Heinose, who unfortunately is no longer here: yes, we made good proposals in the Group on Physical Activity and Sport, in which I myself was a representative of the opposition, and I hope that the 1 million people who are deprived will be able to exercise as soon as possible. We also hope that the government will finally understand the importance of investing in health when we talk about social costs, genuinely and truly. If we do not mobilise the Finns, we will never save EUR 3 billion on social costs. That is clear, and we all understand that. But then I want to get back to the bigger picture. We heard today about Foreign Minister Soini and Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Mykkä. I myself was in Tokyo about a month ago to witness what it feels like when a North Korean missile flies over Japan at 6 a.m. — though, fortunately, I was in Tokyo, not Hokkaido in Northern Japan. But the reason I'm saying this is because it's good sometimes to go far away, to see close, and thanks to the Finnish Embassy, our competent Foreign Service, we have competent diplomats, despite all the savings that can tell us here in Helsinki and Finland what is going on with the world and what we should do. But my concern is that we have cut so many years and so much of that structure, that is, the Foreign Affairs Administration, that is, just Business Finland or any change in the name we do not export Finnish and Finland’s visibility will bring it to the level it has ever been. Fortunately, Japan is a fine exception. It is the only country where we have a genuine competitive advantage compared to other Nordic countries, for example. We have just talked about the fact that the Finnish economy is doing well, we have caught up with Sweden. I couldn't agree more. The Swedish business structure is much more diverse, they have consumer brands, something that we do not have — and if we do not have anything else, we will not be able to operate in the country and abroad. But then to the concrete presentations. Minister Lintilä, Japan's Deputy Minister for the Environment, Ito presented the following to me: We talk a lot about sustainable development, we talk a lot about environmental technology, clean-tech and its exports, but the fact is that Finland is a small country, we have small businesses. Our Japanese colleagues told us that what if we did things together, for example, that we would clean up the millions of cities in Africa — water, air and land — and together we could seek funding from the World Bank and do really big things. Unfortunately, Finland alone cannot catch up with big projects, big projects. I hope that both Minister Lintilä and Minister Even the brickie will stick to such suggestions, such as those of Japan. Secondly, I would like to talk about tourism. Quite rightly, Minister Lintilä, 8 million for tourism is a good thing, it is growing, but what is it doing with 8 million? Where does it go? You talk about Visit Finland, great thing, but why don't you give it to the cities, the cities that know what they do with that money on the spot, wherever they are in Finland? I think it would be a good idea to try this out for, for example, $5 million and see where it leads.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u372	Mr President! I was not able to ask the Minister about development aid at the debatation, but we can talk about it now. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will provide EUR 886 million for development aid. A total of EUR 546 million is proposed for development cooperation itself. In addition to the actual development cooperation, support for investment in developing countries will be continued through financial investments. Regionally, Finland emphasises Africa. For decades, money has been poured out from the state budget for development cooperation, and the situation is still that the effectiveness and effectiveness are obscured. They are, after all, a key issue, and certainly not a part of GDP. About a year and a half ago, when we were discussing development aid, I told you about former Ambassador Matti Kääriäinen, who worked for 40 years in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on development aid. A few years ago, a book was published about him called the Curse of Development Aid. In an interview with Helsingin Sanomat in January 2015, this former Ambassador of Finland to Mozambique and Kenya said that if Finland stopped developing aid in Mozambique immediately tomorrow, nothing in Mozambique would change. It is self-evident that the help given by Finland also drowns in corruption. Anyone who says that money is not going to corruption could tell us where it is going, he said. Poverty has not been reduced much in sub-Saharan Africa, precisely in those countries that have received development aid. With strong population growth, the number of people living in extreme poverty in these countries has increased despite decades of development aid. So development aid does not reduce poverty. The aim of development aid is not to produce results but to make a certain amount of money go away, he said. Mr President! With debt money, the pursuit of development aid is a meltdown of madness. That amount, EUR 886 million, would significantly improve the life situation of many Finns, and this is a single year of spending. When you add up tens of years of development cooperation money, you get a figure that, even if it is roughly estimated, is horrendous. But, as has been said, the most important thing is what it has achieved, how many euros have come through. Why is Africa’s population growing out of control, even though the issue of birth control has long been the subject of sexual education? Mr President! I think there's a situation where when you go in there, you tell the medicine man, "That's the money for you, you give me credit." The result is plus minus zero. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u373	Mr President! In my speech, I would like to comment on the Government's draft budget, mainly as regards the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in the field of energy. Unfortunately, the proposal for the Ministry of the Environment's budget for the following year seems to suggest that the large-scale environmental and nature conservation saving measures implemented during Prime Minister Sipilä's reign will be patched up with small sums; in some cases, the cut-off line will continue. The Government has already acknowledged that Finland will not remain in its UN commitment to halt the decline in Finnish biodiversity by 2020. The need for conservation efforts is further increasing the government's extensive felling targets, which in the light of expert knowledge [Standard Call] Metso funds have developed as follows: In 2015, EUR 26.8 million was budgeted for them and EUR 8 million in 2016 and 2017 respectively, and EUR 16 million has been earmarked for the coming year. Also on the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's side, Metso funds have not been returned to the level before the operation. Overall, cuts in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment during this government period have been considerable. The total budget for 2018 is EUR 181.2 million. In 2015, the budget was still more than EUR 200 million, which did not even include the correction grants currently included in the budget. In real terms, the reduction is still around EUR 38 million. This is the wrong direction. The entire spending limits for nature conservation funds during the previous government period were EUR 38 million, now 26.6. During the last term of the government, the programme for the protection of bogs put on ice by the then Minister, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, is still on ice. This government does not have a great deal of oceans to brag about with respect to nature and the environment, even though this budget is not just a matter of criticism. In honor of Finland's 100th anniversary, the campaign "A Gift to the Finnish Nature" launched by the two ministries in cooperation with the voluntary establishment of protected areas deserves praise. It's a great gesture from the government. A bit of a shame is that the campaign represents the policy of the Sipilä Government, which has become familiar with other matters, which is a policy of sequestering responsibility for dealing with matters other than the government itself. The state should also set a stronger example in these matters. It is contradictory that at a time when private landowners, companies and communities are encouraged to preserve our national treasures, Finnish nature, values, the government itself has tightened the performance targets of Metsähallitus in such a way that the state forest company has a great temptation, and even the need, to extend fellings increasingly to hiking areas, recreational forests, protected sites or their immediate vicinity and to old, valuable forests in general, which are priorities for the conservation of Finnish nature, species and habitats. I would have liked the government to encourage Metsähallitus, as well as thousands of hectares of the state company Vapo, which still has significant natural values, to take into account its contribution in the spirit of the "gift to the Finnish nature" campaign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u374	Mr President! I would like to bring something to the debate that has been written a little over the last few days. In this Chamber, when both government ministers and parliamentarians have taken the credit for the fact that the employment rate has now improved significantly, as it were, when the number of unemployed has fallen, I would like to shed some light on what is really at stake here, or actually ask the question whether this situation is really as bright as the government parties want to let it be. According to the statistics of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the number of truly unemployed job seekers has decreased by around 54,000. This sounds great. But According to Statistics Finland, the number of employed persons has risen by only about 7,000 at the same time. It can be summed up that, on the other hand, if the number has decreased by 54,000, on the other hand, the proportion of employed persons has increased by only 7,000, then somewhere these people will be when they are not working. It is not, therefore, a question of all 54,000 people being employed, as the government suggests, but of different other factors, where these people are. One of the reasons is probably retirement. Some positive improvements have also been made by this government, such as the retirement of the long-term unemployed, people close to retirement age. This is a positive thing. However, this statistics are also distorted by participation in employment-promoting services, or one of the reasons may also be that the automatic interruption of job search may have been the result of these new registration obligations and so on. This is something that we have not quite been able to explain yet how many people are involved in the whole. However, it cannot be said that this is the case for employed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u375	Mr President! In last week's budget debate, when both the Minister for Finance Orpo and some representatives discussed tobacco tax in terms of the state budget and the distribution of income, and the matter was still on the agenda at the turn of the week, I would like to speak briefly at this late hour in the parliamentary minutes. Last week we discussed alcohol and alcohol policy, and we have often wondered why two issues that have such a strong impact on public health, tobacco and alcohol, have gone in different directions in the last decade. There has been a huge positive change in tobacco, resulting in a significant reduction in cancer rates and heart disease rates. At the same time, however, alcohol consumption and harm have multiplied. The answer lies largely in different policies. With regard to tobacco, we have had a good tobacco policy for a long time in addition to education, the law has been constantly being developed and the tax has been raised. At the same time, alcohol policy has been loosened in many ways and a substantial tax reduction was still made in 2004. Only five moderate tax increases in recent years have turned alcohol consumption down. There are strong evidence-based measures to reduce smoking. The most effective is the price that is regulated by taxation. There are other effective ways, such as complete smoking bans in restaurants and workplaces, and Finland has used them effectively. As early as the 1970s, during the first Tobacco Act, we were at the forefront of international tobacco policy, and since then a number of amendments to the Tobacco Act have kept us at the forefront — although in several countries we have gone further than that. However, it has to be said that the STM has set up a new tobacco working group to prepare new measures for tobacco policy for the next parliamentary term. We have consistently used the tobacco price and tax instrument, which is an excellent cost-effective measure because it effectively reduces smoking and its harmful effects, as well as the state's social welfare costs, but at the same time brings additional revenue to the state. Despite these decisions, the price of tobacco in Finland is not particularly high in Western terms. When the average price of a pack of cigarettes after the last increases is EUR 6.7, it is EUR 6.8 in France, 9.7 in Ireland, as much as EUR 15.9 in Australia. After the last increases, England will have a minimum price of EUR 10.1 and the plan will be to increase the price substantially in the next few years. In this light, the proposed increase in tobacco tax is a good one. According to VM’s estimate, the price at the end of 2019 would be EUR 7.9, which is still far from the world’s top countries. Tobacco as well as alcohol tax increases often ask whether it does not increase smuggling. This must certainly be closely monitored, but the Finnish price increases have not had any significant impact on this. It is interesting to note how the southern European countries, where the price of tobacco and alcohol is low, have the largest smuggling and the north, on the contrary. Thanks to a good tobacco policy, including tax policy, the number of tobacco has continued to decline. Today, only about 13 percent of adults smoke daily. As a result of this development, it is often asked whether tobacco tax revenues are constantly increasing, even though smoking is decreasing to a very low level. Of course they will not, but for the time being and presumably even after this increase, the tax revenue will increase. The issue of the importance of tobacco tax for the distribution of income among the population has been raised in the debate. When smoking concerns, unfortunately, particularly the lower social groups, especially in the years back, it was pointed out that the tax burden is particularly relevant to these groups. However, the situation has changed substantially. Smoking is already becoming relatively low and is beginning to affect smaller population groups. This will also make the increase in tobacco tax more effective in reducing health inequalities, a significant proportion of which come from tobacco and alcohol. Moreover, it has been said that price policy is particularly effective in reducing smoking among young people with less money and with whom we are particularly concerned. It is also essential that Finland has ratified the International Convention against Tobacco Control by means of a parliamentary decision. It states that the tobacco tax is primarily an instrument of tobacco policy. Finally, we must remember that tobacco is an exceptional commodity. Every second smoker dies of smoking, and there are still thousands of annual deaths. We are therefore talking about the central issue of public health. And finally, Mr President, I would like to say that, according to studies, the majority of smokers would like to stop smoking. Those who smoke for years can save considerable sums by stopping smoking. For many, it is not easy, but more and more qualified expert support is available, and this withdrawal is an issue that should be further strengthened in Finland's tobacco policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u376	Madam President! As in my earlier speech With regard to Customs last week, along with the police and the Border Guard, Customs, which focuses on freight traffic control and operates at all Finnish borders, including internal borders, is a central authority for internal security. However, the resources for monitoring are still very scarce and this needs to be changed. In its draft spending limits for 2018 to 2021 and in its draft budget for 2018, Customs has presented an annual increase of EUR 3 million in order to safeguard its operations and an increase of EUR 5.5 million in equipment procurement for control activities for 2018 and a total of EUR 10.3 million for the following three years. Neither of these proposals was accepted in the draft budget. I believe, however, that the proposals are necessary, with a better sense of action and situation. It is still not possible to plan the long-term activities and human resources of Customs, as the known 2019 budget will force further reductions in the number of personnel. The number of Finnish Customs staff has decreased continuously since 2006, when the number of person-years was 2,583, by around 700 person-years compared to July 2017 — including approximately 200 persons transferred to the Tax Administration since the beginning of this year. This year Customs has reduced staff by more than 60 persons. They have been able to take care of staff reductions through natural removals by leaving mostly replacement recruitments undone, but as a result, staff renewal has stopped and the average age will be around 48 years this year. Customs has not been able to adequately occupy all its tasks. For example, due to the lack of personnel, some of the previously profiled inspection sites are left unchecked, and the physical capacity that weakens with ageing limits the ability to find suitable personnel for some tasks. Furthermore, Customs has not been able to acquire sufficient new skills in the fight against online crime and the investigation of electronic evidence. The security and efficiency of customs control activities require the use of modern inspection and analysis equipment — not only the maintenance and renewal of existing equipment but also the introduction of new technologies and robotics. In order to ensure the smooth flow of foreign trade, it must also be possible to shorten the duration of the checks without a significant reduction in the level of safety. With current appropriations Customs will not be able to reform its control technology in the coming years. Customs would like, among other things, to have an automated control line for air customs mail, which would extract drugs, explosives and other products subject to prohibitions and restrictions from the stream, but its estimated purchase price is higher than Customs has been able to book annual investment in equipment in individual years of the spending limits period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u377	Madam President! I will continue to discuss the budget in the administrative fields of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. We Greens value education, research and scientific knowledge in general and as a basis for decision-making in all administrative sectors in particular. I cannot support the important reduction in the appropriations for 2018 of the Finnish Environment Agency, which produces national and international research data on environmental and nature issues presented by the Government. During the two previous years, the Finnish Environment Agency's budget has already been cut by EUR 30 million and by EUR 25,9 million, and now a follow-up is proposed, minus EUR 22,6 million. How do we ensure the continuity of monitoring the state of the environment and the production of new environmental information for decision-making purposes if researchers are placed in a kilometre factory and research and monitoring projects in a safe? On the other hand, strong support can be shown for the government’s efforts to improve the living conditions of water flow and migratory fish. The National Fisheries Route Strategy and the Government Resolution on it for 2012 aim to strengthen the vitality of endangered and endangered migratory fish stocks by shifting the focus from fish plantations to maintaining and restoring the natural reproductive cycle. It is therefore up to the government to implement this strategy. Large northern rivers Kemijoki and Iijoki are among the top targets of the fish road strategy. The power plant project sought by Kemijoki Oy in Sierilä is in serious conflict with the Government's efforts. I would like consistency from both the state and the state. There is still a great deal of gas to be added to the fishing road projects and to the removal of obstacles to the roll-over, not to the construction of a power plant. Mr President! A total of EUR 48 million has been earmarked in the budget to implement the implementation of the Climate and Energy Strategy through a number of different items in the budgets of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment. This is a good investment, but unfortunately insufficient. These efforts will not achieve the national targets of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change quickly enough for global warming. However, it has to be said that the amounts entered in the budget contain a number of good things: the construction of electronic charging stations and biogas refuelling stations will be accelerated; the charging points for electric cars in housing companies will be promoted; the car fleet will be reformed; the sustainable construction of wood-based buildings will be encouraged. As much as EUR 55 million will be reserved for energy investment support by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, i.e. an increase of EUR 20 million compared to last year. It is also a good thing for the emission reduction targets that fuel tax increases should continue. Next year, the increase will be estimated at EUR 45 million. However, the low level of taxation of peat will continue. That's a blind spot for the government. The Government has considered the annual increase in taxes on fossil fuels to be the main focus. However, tax increases in these matters should be made much more sharply and comprehensively. Despite the climate targets, for example, the government will not cut EUR 230 million in industrial energy tax returns or EUR 27 million in emissions trading compensation, which has been found to be ineffective and unnecessary by the State Economic Research Centre. Mr President! The draft new technology-neutral renewable energy support system contained in the draft budget is good but incomplete. Its biggest problem is the very small amount of energy production to be competitive, only 2 terawatt hours in 2018 and 2019. There is no information on the continuation of the system after 2020 and it creates uncertainty for companies in the sector. The feed-in tariff prepared under the leadership of Mr Pekkarinen has not been cost-effective, but that does not mean that the new system should cut the targets for renewable energy growth so drastically. Mr President! Instead of an endless increase in forest bioeconomy based mainly on old ways, Finland should build a leading country for sustainable and healthy wood construction, clean renewable energy and smart innovations using natural resources. This view of the government's draft budget is not yet quite reached. The objectives must be set high, not overly based on the precautionary principle. Ambitiousness and the spirit of reform, I wish the state budget much more of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u378	Madam President! Mr Terho is not here at the moment, but I should like to finish by talking about the financing of sport and, in particular, the financing of top-level sport. Finns are known to be a sports-loving people and demand the success of athletes and coaches. Success was also expected, for example, from the World Championships in athletics, but the medals of the team were scarce. Even at the previous Olympics, we got only one medal, many of them for surprises, boxing. Success in value contests is not easy, and there is only one way to succeed, otherwise it would have been invented. I believe that we need a professional approach to finding future sports peaks. We need people who are already dealing with young people for their civilian profession. When a talented young person is found, he must not be allowed to escape; he should be motivated and enabled to practice with a goal. Top sports also still require strong statutory funding for society and corporate sponsor money for talented athletes. However, in the pursuit of success, it must not only be the size of the budget, but also the way and where the money is spent. At the moment, too much state funding goes to the salaries, rewards and unnecessary bureaucracy of top sports leaders. The Olympic Committee's salaries have risen, especially during 2012-2016, although at least the results would have been the exact opposite. Is the high-level sports unit of the Finnish Olympic Committee set up in 2012 even necessary as such? I do not think that its abolition would in any way undermine the performance of our country's top sport. I believe that the results would improve if the resources allocated to the unit were used more rationally than at present. I also believe that the unit is not really important to any species union. At a time when top-level sports executives receive more than 100,000 euros a year, many coaches are not paid at all, even if they have coached a high-ranking success. I believe that this is a great injustice which must be corrected during this regime, because the actions of the previous governments in this regard have been limited. The resources of the top sports unit must be directed to where they are most needed: direct to clubs, coaches and talented young athletes. They do the real work leading to results. There are plenty of people going on a free race and free food tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u379	Mr President! In practice, almost everything that can be said is probably already said in this budget referral debate, but perhaps I will be brief on a few points. First of all, Tampere is about to have a new kind of university, Tampere 3 and the future Tampere University. It includes the current University of Tampere, Tampere University of Technology and Tampere University of Applied Sciences. This new university, which will be created, will make it possible to create a community of overcrowding, offering both wide choice for students and good business connections with the higher education system and research organisations. Such cooperation should also be sought at other universities. The objective of this combination of Tampere universities is therefore very good and well supported, but one of the concerns is whether this new university has sufficient capital to develop its activities. I therefore appeal to the Government to ensure that this university entity is able to operate with sufficient capital and to provide strategic funding for the coming years. Mr President! Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the government's proposed reductions in income tax. They have been very important in this parliamentary term and have also contributed to stimulating employment in our country. This new proposal for a reduction in income tax is, in itself, to be welcomed, but attention is drawn to the fact that the taxation of pensioners, in particular those who earn about EUR 20000 per year, seems to be well above the taxation of employees and, in fact, the tax reductions of high-income pensioners are even percentage higher than those of low-income earners. I therefore call on the Committee on Finance to go through the income tax table carefully and also to target tax reductions for pensioners on low and medium incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u380	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u381	Mr President! The proposal for regional language experiments is regrettable. The proposal increases inequality because it allows for the removal of another national language at a very young age. This may later prove to be a fatal choice in life. Why close doors at a time when all doors should be kept open for different options? Language experimentation is also a dubious project in education policy. The principle that prevails is that our comprehensive school provides equal conditions for all children. So far no one has been able to decide not to read a particular subject. We have not allowed this on grounds of equality. We have wanted to provide equal conditions for all children. President! It is sad that we are discussing how fewer languages can be read in Finland when we should focus on how to advance all language teaching, and we should indeed encourage our young people to read more languages at an earlier stage. Another thing that gives some thought is how the government is able to carry out an impact assessment of this type of project, where the choices of a young person are concerned. After all, we cannot make such an assessment until the young person is an adult or goes to school and perhaps it will be seen that a door closes because at some point he has been able to choose something out, so this evaluation will be very, very, very challenging.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u382	Mr President! The Government has brought a proposal to the Parliament for a language experiment, which will be open to applicants from all over Finland. According to the Finns of Peru, language testing is very necessary and hopefully produces new information that, a little later, leads to a genuine freedom of choice for language learning. However, the fact that we Finns do not have anything against Swedish, but that we still hope for more free choice in language studies, is even more important in this context. There are a lot of good things about this government proposal. But unfortunately only those fifth and sixth grade students who have not been able to begin studies in another national language before the beginning of the experiment have been able to take part in the experiment. In addition, the target group of the experiment is limited to a maximum of 2,200 pupils. In order to clarify the information and vision of this experiment, it would have been desirable for the target group of the experiment to have been clearly broader than what has been proposed. The main thing, however, is that, at the request of the Finns, the language experiment recorded in the Government Programme will now be carried out as the parliamentary term draws to an end. Mr President! It would be very important to get the widest possible picture of the benefits of language experimentation across Finland. In Eastern Finland, for example, the Russian language might be a very popular choice, while in Inner Finland and the West, for example, world languages such as Chinese and Spanish could gain a wider foothold. In some contexts, it has been feared, and it has also been publicly suggested, that language testing, or the subsequent choice of languages, would undermine the possibilities of acquiring diverse language skills. We believe that this fear is unfounded, because those who take part in the language experiment are not exempt from learning languages as such. Only the choice of languages will be offered and the possibility of carrying out the official Swedish will be retained if necessary. Diversification is probably in everyone's interest, not only in the pupils but also in the business sector a little later, when these students graduate from educational institutions and enter the labour market. Also, not all pupils need to study the same languages. It is a fact that everyone has only a finite number of hours at his disposal. In that sense, it would be good for them to be able to study the languages that are best motivated on the basis of their motivation. As language learning continues to expand, freedom of choice would bring more and more international language experts to work and offer excellent opportunities for further learning and work both at home and abroad, and would indeed significantly improve the motivation for learning for many students. Mr President! Last autumn, for example, the Finnish Upper Secondary Education Federation proposed in its statement to extend the language experiment to upper secondary schools in order to identify the possible positive impact of free language selection on the number of languages to be written in, for example, the matriculation examination. In particular, in the context of increased competition on export markets, the benefits of free choice of languages should be taken advantage of. I would also like to say that the language experiment must provide the widest possible, comprehensive and comprehensive picture of the need for language learning for schoolchildren and students throughout the country. In fact, earlier today and last year, the Finns have taken council initiatives aimed at taking part in the experiment in many Finnish municipalities, and they are awaiting the entry into force of this law. Mr President! Finally, according to Åbo Akadem's study, about three-quarters of Finnish citizens would like to get rid of compulsory school Swedish. More than 60 percent of citizens also feel that it would be more useful to study a language other than Swedish at school. A large proportion of citizens are thus in the same position as the Finns in the language issue and would like to get rid of compulsory school Swedish. I hope, therefore, that this language experiment, which is now taking off, will continue in the future in the face of a genuine freedom of language.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u383	Mr President, värderade talman! Ledamot Nylander hade ett bra anförande ox, och det finns inte orsak att upprepa allt det, inte Heller sannfinländrannas motiv som ju ganska tydligt kom fram ox.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u384	Mr President! Mr Savio has just said out loud what the real objective is, and it is quite different from what is proposed in the government's proposal. And I think it's a good thing we're honest here. In my opinion, it is honest to say that the goal of the Finns of Peru is that we should have a completely free choice of languages, which would mean that the position of another Finnish language in basic education and, of course, in other degrees would change completely. I would also like to say that freedom of choice does not in itself bring any additional knowledge. That's what we've seen. When the matriculation examination gave up the compulsoryness of another Finnish language, this motivated more language learning in upper secondary schools and that in this way Finnish young people also learn more languages. This has not happened, the trend is quite different. And it is sad to see statistics on how little Finnish children and young people read foreign languages. Rather, studies clearly show that if you control one foreign language, this will help you to learn other languages. This is quite indisputable, and in the previous period when we were discussing the citizens' initiative on the freedom of choice of Swedish, we had researchers in the Committee on Education who were very, very reliable in presenting these facts, that is, researched information. And I don't like putting tongues against tongues. It's nobody's.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u385	Mr President! I'm sorry I didn't have forced Chinese, forced Russia, and forced Spanish when I was little.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u386	Mr President! I do not take a stand on the experiment itself — but I think it is a rather trivial question — but I am surprised that we are still having a language debate here about people who are in our working life in 30 or after that it is still the only interaction between two people in different languages, when even now the translators have developed very far and, according to all the scenarios, in the future a significant part of our need for interpretation from one language to another, especially in professional contexts, will be dealt with by machine. It is clear that Finland is late here and will receive these benefits later than the big and easily machined languages, but the future is here. I believe that it should already be reflected in this Chamber's argument today when it comes to our language palette and our children's future language needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u387	Madam President! It is easy to agree with Mr Savio's wishes that language teaching in our schools should become more diverse and that the proportion of Russian and Chinese, for example, should increase. But when I am also a supporter of bilingualism in our country, I hope, like Mr Nylander and Mr Strand, that the committee will really reflect on this issue with great variety and care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u388	Mr President! I too wish that more languages would be read in our schools. Of course I'm in favour of that. But I do not believe that by talking about a language, that it is compulsory education and it is forced and forced to do so, promoting a good and study-friendly attitude. We saw then a few seasons ago when the then government tried to provide municipalities with more funding on the eastern border, extra funding so that these municipalities could offer, for example, Russian language teaching to children and young people: There were no groups. No one wanted to go along with this, and that is why these appropriations were not used, and that is a great pity. Instead, I think we should all talk about reading more in Finnish day care centres, Finnish schools and perhaps in a new way, focusing on the courage to speak and not so much on studying the grammar — the courage to speak, to understand the cultural differences that exist, and to have a broader context in these languages. In other words, we also have a lot to do with the content of language teaching. It needs to be developed and encouraged by young people and children. I think it is excellent that today, in early childhood education, through songs and games, languages are learned as if undetected. That's a good development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u389	Värderade Talman! Jag vill passa på att tacka ledamot Puska för ett gott inlägg och hoppas att det också speglar den övriga regeringens grain, där ju sannfinländerna inte längre är med, alldeles riktigt, som colleague of ox poängterade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u390	Mr President! I doubt that agreement will be reached in the course of this referral debate on all these issues, which have been mentioned here unfortunately late today. It's already closing at half a dozen o'clock. There are a rare, well, unfortunately few representatives present in the hall. However, it is good that there is at least some kind of debate on this issue. The representative Strand pointed out that the Western coastal region has a major impact on Finland's trade relations, and undoubtedly this is the case, for which it is a great honour for them. However, much of the trade should also be made in English and many other languages, not just Swedish. In addition, the debate has often focused on the importance of securing the services of Swedish-speaking citizens in the future. Well, of course, that is also the right conferred on them by the Constitution. I believe, however, that this is best achieved by the fact that those who can speak Swedish really know it well. This is not just a civil servant Swedish degree, which is currently required, which is not enough in practice. There is a need for deeper knowledge in practical work and official life, which is created through practical language skills. Well, then, as has been pointed out in the debate, Swedish studies and knowledge are an advantage. Well, they're an advantage. I don't want to deny it at all. However, I would still like to see the Swedish People's Party, which would at least otherwise have a fairly broad emphasis on individual freedom, give students more freedom of choice in this area and give them the opportunity to choose the languages they want to study themselves. It is quite clear that no one can study at the same time. But let us first look at the results of this language experiment and then draw conclusions from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u391	Mr President! I do not want to prolong this debate, but I am simply saying that it is extremely important for us that our comprehensive school provides equal conditions for all children. And then you will not be able to choose out the subjects you will need in the future. We have a bilingual country, we have language legislation, we have public offices and their language requirements and so on, and so on, and by this I mean that this will do a disservice to all young people who may not know what they need in the future at that point in their lives. It is extremely important to us that our comprehensive school provides equal conditions for all. And this unfortunately does not promote this very, very important principle for us, which is more important than the fact that you get to choose out the subjects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u392	Mr President! It is easy for me to agree here with Mr Nylander's proposal and the speech. Indeed, I am in favour of maintaining the current standard of teaching in another domestic language in Finland. Everywhere in Finland, we in northern Finland may not all think that Swedish is so important and necessary, but it has come as a surprise to many that Norway and Sweden are still very important partners and have no idea what strength we have in what we have. If, in this situation, young people in secondary school are given the opportunity to choose whether or not to study Swedish, many people will say that we are not going to study, but they will lose a really significant share of their future opportunities. So let's keep the current situation going, it's a fortune for us. We're rich Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u393	Mr President! There are good points here, and I am not going to repeat them all now. Mr Savio spoke of individual freedom, om individens frihet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u394	Mr President! On this point, we absolutely agree with Mr Strand that diverse language skills will certainly be beneficial in working life and in life as a whole. I do not wish to deny it, and I do agree. However, let it be emphasised once again that in this presentation no student is deprived of the right to study Swedish. First of all, even if they are in an educational institution that participates in this experiment, they have the opportunity to choose whether or not to participate as students. In addition, they will be able to study Swedish if they wish, and they will be able to continue to study Swedish at a later stage. In other words, I do not feel that there are quite as big problems as they have been raised on the right side of the Chamber today. But, as I said just now, let us take a look at this experiment first and then, in peace, let us draw cool conclusions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u395	Mr President! This is a very important and regrettable proposal in terms of education policy, because this differs from our very important principle that in basic education you must not completely choose out the subjects you will need in the future. And this is a matter of great importance in principle. Although the representative considers that the practical effects are not so great, this is important in education policy. And all I ask is what is the next subject, where such freedoms are granted, because this is certainly just the first step. What's the next subject? This is a very important matter in principle and an unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u396	Mr President! Now colleagues are showing signs that this debate will probably end there. But I would just like to say to the end that Mr Savio said about the toilet that the real objective is a much wider freedom of choice. But now he said to this end that we should now look at this experiment and then analyse the results. We look forward to a comprehensive analysis of these results together, rather than sticking to any predefined objectives. - This is probably the end of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u397	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u398	Värderade Talman! Jag tycker i och för sig att det är ett Jättebra lagförslag och underlättar säkert många småbarnsfabillioners ekonomiska situation, och därmed också vardag. Det jag lite ifrågasätter är att man i finansieringen koplar in fastighetsskatten och en höjning av fastighetsskatten. Det tycker jag inte om i den bull finansieringsgrunden. Och sedan hoppas jag faktiskt att vi så småningom skulle konnana se en ganska omfattande famileledighetsreform där den avgiftsfria småbarnspedagogiken, för till exempel barn över treår, i fyra timmar per dag skulle ingå. Jag tror att det skulle reserve det bästa med tanke på småbarnsfabillionna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u399	Mr President! It is a good thing that the government has taken the line of the Social Democrats here and is proposing a reduction in early childhood education fees. The long-term objective of the SDP is precisely free day care and early childhood education, and it is good that steps are taken towards it. In that sense, it is easy to support this law. However, the government has also made significant reductions in day care and early childhood education. Perhaps the most important of these is the abolition and limitation of subjective day care rights. Fortunately, however, many cities and municipalities have come to the conclusion that this absurd approach has not been followed, and we also hope that the government will come to its senses here and cancel the restriction of subjective day care rights. We also warmly support the reform of family leave. Of course, there are questions at the moment as to whether this is really an ambitious reform, since it seems at the moment that it is more a matter of making a few incisions in a direction, not actually starting to reform this whole in the way it should be. And of course it is important to link this free early childhood education to it. Last but not least, I would like to raise concerns about the increasing number of groups in day care and also about the inequality of groups in subjective day care rights. When there are part-time and full-time children in different groups and it causes quite special situations in day care there, the issue of group size is also significant. I would like the government to pay attention to these issues and to bring forward proposals to abolish the restriction on subjective day care rights as well as to reduce group sizes in addition to reducing early childhood education fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u400	Mr President! This proposal on customer fees and reductions in early childhood education is in itself a good one. These early childhood education contributions were already significantly reduced for this year, a second discount is now being made. This is also good in the sense that it creates incentives for employment. I also think there are indications that these earlier discounts have led to this. However, as Mr Nylander also pointed out in his speech, I also consider it a problem for municipalities to partly compensate for this fall in early childhood education income by raising the lower and upper limits of property tax. If municipalities are forced to increase property tax, these withdrawals will also strike low - income families with children. In view of the fact that living in Finland is already quite expensive, I do not find this increase in property tax any worthwhile. Then there was also talk of this freeness of charge in early childhood education. Well, these have already been substantially reduced and will indeed come with this proposal if it goes through, as I think it will, further downgrade. I think it would be good to retain some form of ownership at least in higher income categories. If the early childhood education fees are completely abolished, that would be a significant income transfer, especially for high incomes. In my opinion, this current model is a good one, that day care fees, early childhood education fees, should be charged in a reasonable and cost-effective manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u401	Mr President! The Finnish model is based on our children paying pensions for all of us, including those who have not made children themselves. That is why it is, to say the least, right and proper that we also jointly and severally, through tax financing, take care of these children when they are young.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u402	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u403	Mr President! This legislative proposal on game issues is to be welcomed. Changes in these matters are needed because the situation is constantly evolving. The hunting season has already started completely and the situation has improved in the sense that we have achieved, among other things, the game.fi system. It is good that the game damage law is proposed to be amended so as to compensate for the costs of participating in game damage inspections. That is why it is good that there has been a debate about this, that who is doing the damage when it comes to checking, and these damage control cases have already given rise to a great deal of debate. In the past, Finland has negotiated with the EU on compensation for fraud, that around EUR 10 million is a ceiling. It was then laughed at the fact that the ceiling was so high that it would never be there, but now the situation has become full of EUR 10 million, and now we are discussing whether all these damage is real and what to do with it. That is why it is good that inspection issues are clarified, that reliability is obtained for this whole system. In the reindeer sector, where the damage is greatest, the Ministry has now financed an experiment in which an electronic notification can be made immediately after the damage has been discovered. So on the spot, the reindeer husband, usually the reindeer master, takes a photograph of the fraud, puts it on the Internet, and it becomes known and immediately a notification of the damage. 19% of these have now been reported so far, so that it seems to be making good progress. So let's move on with these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u404	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u405	Mr President! The amendment to the fishing law is something that has been very much discussed in our circles before the beginning of this parliamentary term. There is indeed a need for a few amendments to the fisheries law, which is to say more about the repair package. For a couple of years now, we have seen how the new fishing law has started, and there are changes to it that need to be made. Well, the first thing is that we really need to fix the fish management fee. The Confederation of Fisheries, which I chair, has clearly highlighted the need, i.e. the need for all adults to pay the fish management fee. This does not sound good for everyone to have to pay for it, but we have just dealt with hunting fees and game fees, and everyone will pay for them, regardless of age. And then the number of fishermen over 65 is increasing. Then what is this money spent on? The money is spent on the fishing industry. Finland is a very water-rich country. We have a lot of shareholders who would manage the fishing industry if we had the funds to deal with this. In other words, how to handle advice, how to manage the fishing industry, how to manage fisheries control and all these things, we really need money. Only 20 per cent of fish eaten in Finland are domestic fish. Now our fisheries management issues are really weak here because of the lack of resources. Indeed, we would need all over 65-year-olds to pay the fish management fee. Why did we come to this situation? Five, six, seven years were in preparation for the Fishing Act, and it was always on the way that the fish management fee would be paid to people of all ages. But it happened that at the last stage it was drawn to 65 years of age, and problems began to accumulate. There is now a small proposal for a revision of the budget law — from EUR 39 to EUR 45 — but this is certainly not enough, and we would need this payment for all over 65 years of age. Now that we are talking about the law on fishing, another essential aspect of the amendment is Article 10 of the Fisheries Act. i.e. fishing for state-controlled streams in the three northernmost municipalities, local rights. In the past, there was a free fishing right and it was now abolished. This has been very big uplifting in the regions of the northernmost municipalities. This correction must be made, because it is a question of local rights. For many, the reason why they live in the territory of the three northernmost municipalities has been the fishing law, the fact that they are allowed to fish in the territory of their own municipality. But now it has become really difficult, I have had to pay 20 bucks for a one-day permit, when the traditional Lappish style is that you don't have to know in advance because I'm going fishing: if you feel like going fishing today, then you go fishing today. Then the third point in the fisheries law, where the change should now take place, is the number of nets. A vague, very difficult interpretation of the fishing law was made of the fact that a boat may put up no more than eight nets 67. south of latitude. The boat system is a completely out-of-court concept, what it means, so that no case has yet been dealt with. But even in the interests of good case-law, this point should be amended so that it is more in line with Finnish law. The first thing is that there really is no need for us to define eight networks at national level, because there are areas in Finland where there are enough or even too many networks. And most of Finland's water catchment areas are underfished, whereas the limit of eight networks per boat is completely absurd. Fisheries areas should be the ones that definitely define it in their plans, and the shareholders who determine, as they have done until now, how many networks it makes sense to put there and should act accordingly. In addition, this law contains a number of technical points which should be corrected. Now that we are moving from fishing areas to fishing areas, we still need to put things right in this whole change. In other words, I hope that this piece of legislation will now be brought to a wider debate after this first paragraph of the law and that we will then get these necessary changes under review.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u406	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u407	Mr President! This active model of unemployment security therefore means that the unemployed should be in practice in weekly employment or in employment-promoting services for five days. If this is not the case, unemployment benefit will be cut by 4.65% for the next three months. I would therefore like to mention some of the problems with the government's proposal in this speech. Perhaps the main and underlying reason why I do not accept this is that it does not understand the various causes of unemployment, which is why. This is part of the squatting of the unemployed, as many of the above proposals have already been. Firstly, there is the requirement to be in employment-promoting services, and yet there is no obligation to provide these services to the unemployed. In other words, for reasons attributable to outside the unemployed person, it may be that the unemployed person is unable to access services, which means that he or she will then be cut back on the aid. On the other hand, I see that this will also increase incentive traps and bureaucracy. The proposal therefore states that income support expenditure will increase. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this affects many people who are already disadvantaged and at risk of exclusion, who already have a huge threshold for access to gigs and shredding and difficulties in obtaining short-term employment. So this is not the right way for them to activate, and for many this may even be an impossible procedure to drive into this operation. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that even now, if you work a few days, the EUR 300 reserve may be exceeded. The problem is whether the short-term unemployment market will be created. But these were these, and we will continue the discussion later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u408	Mr President! The active model contains a decisive misunderstanding about the nature of unemployment, if the proposal is really intended to increase employment, the employment of the unemployed in fragmentary jobs, as the proposal claims. If an unemployed person goes to work for a day, he or she also earns more than 60 euros in the low-wage sector if he or she does not have income support. So this is the amount that goes into his hands after tax. If he does not go to work, he would lose this EUR 60 in the active model and, in addition, some EUR 30 in the daily allowance. The proposal therefore assumes that we have unemployed people somewhere, for whom the loss of EUR 90 is so much greater a threat than the loss of EUR 60, that this is why they are radically changing their behaviour. This is despite the fact that far greater sanctions have so far not led to this. Well, why aren't the sanctions working? Because the reason for inactivity is not lack of financial incentive. The reason for inactivity may simply be that there is no job available. In this case, the active model will not remedy this in any way. The reason for inactivity may be that there is work, but the work available is something that, for example, the unemployed cannot accept because of health restrictions. We have a lot of unemployed people who could be employed under different arrangements and who are therefore in our unemployment statistics but who are unable to find employment in the service sector's fragmented labour market, which has very little opportunity to design jobs based on individual needs and health constraints. The active model does not answer this problem in any way. The third reason why the unemployed person is not employed is that there is work available, but because of social security bureaucracy it is not dared to do so. In this respect, the active model has a negative impact, far from positive, on people's desire to work, because it makes the bureaucracy trap that is already disproportionate. In addition to this crucial misunderstanding, there are also some other problems with the active model which make the proposal impossible according to its own internal logic. The proposal does not specify how a person with a disability shows a legitimate reason not to be employed in a situation where the obligation does not apply to any particular job. Until now, the obligation to work has worked in such a way that a job is sent from the TE Office to a specific job, and if an unemployed person has a restriction that he is unable to take up this job — for example, an eye disease which requires dimming of lights which the workplace does not have the opportunity to do — he submits this restriction to the Employment and Economic Development Office (TE Office) and is able to cope with it without sanctions. Now, in this active model, it is thought that if the unemployed person has not been employed anywhere, he has, as it were, refused all jobs in the world, or at least in his own working area, and it is impossible for him to produce a medical report that would prove him innocent of this crime. This is one of the main problems, which is why it is good that this also applies in the Constitutional Committee. Another major practical problem to which Mr Nurminen has already referred is that this initiative increases the use of income support. In other words, not only does it increase unemployment security bureaucracy within the unemployment benefit system, but it also brings new people into the area of income support bureaucracy, which will further multiply this red tape trap effect. Of course, as it stands, it is a clear follow-up to the line that began in the 1990s, where the need to spank the unemployed is so strong that an ever-new discipline policy is being implemented at the expense of the national economy, even though it is already known that it has no positive effects. The third major problem is that the government's proposal proposes labour policy measures as an equal alternative to the workplace for those who cannot find work. This is a misconception because a person cannot in the same way independently look for labour market policy measures when looking for a job, but labour market policy measures always come through the decision and guidance of the authorities. This route of government has already been sanctioned by a more severe sanction than is now proposed by the active model here, i.e. if you refuse to take labour market policy measures, at worst you will lose not only unemployment benefit but also 40% of your income support for a fixed period of time. By comparison, the fear of an active model is completely useless. Well, then, what will work if people are wanted for shrapnel work during unemployment? We know that the EUR 300 safeguard has worked excellently. I have a strong feeling that the facilitation of bureaucracy would also work. The accessibility of TE workers when an unemployed person has a need to ask a question could help in a strange way, as well as the system of precedents for unclear cases, which would allow you to know before you make a move whether this will lead to sanctions or a prize, and, of course, to facilitate training for the unemployed. With regard to the active model, the question remains whether the government does not understand anything about unemployment or whether the proposal is actually aimed at something else, such as a reduction in unemployment security, targeting the most vulnerable and least defenceless group within the unemployed. If that is the case, it would also be fair to put it that way to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u409	Mr President! The active model of unemployment protection now under discussion continues with the government's policy of seeing unemployment as an individual's own fault, not as a matter of job shortages and labour market mismatches. This is one of the main weaknesses of the active model. To sum up, the active model threatens to become more of a tightening up of unemployment security and more red tape in the everyday lives of unemployed people than a model that would genuinely increase activity and employment opportunities. The main problems of the proposal are therefore linked to the deterioration in the income of the unemployed and to the fact that the unemployed person's own activity may not be sufficient to safeguard the benefit. The number and quality of the jobs available and the possibilities for the TE Offices to provide services that promote paid employment and employment are essential factors in fulfilling the condition of activity. As regards employment opportunities and employment services, there is, in turn, a wide variation between regions and localities. There are also differences in participation in a service that promotes employment and in the duration of the services. If the activity requirement is not met, the impact on basic daily allowance and benefits receiving labour market support is approximately EUR 32 per month and on earnings-related daily allowance an average of approximately EUR 66 per month. It's a lot for a low-income unemployed person. Mr President! The aim of the proposal, i.e. to increase activity, was welcomed in the expert opinions. The SDP also welcomes the objective of increasing activity. Instead, we share the concerns expressed by the rapporteurs that this model does not support this objective in an appropriate way. Thus, the experts disagreed with the government’s proposal as to the means by which the active participation of the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit should be supported. Several opinions considered that extending the active model to the beneficiaries of labour market support means in practice automatic cutting of the level of benefit on a permanent or at least long-term basis. In addition, many opinions considered that the model did not treat the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit on an equal footing due to regional differences in employment opportunities. The opinions also considered that the possibilities for short-term employment vary so widely that this difference also creates inequalities between the beneficiaries of unemployment benefits. Mr President! The active model is not the first measure to tighten the position of the unemployed in a seated government, but has already been cut in the income of the unemployed. Unemployment benefit has been reduced, inter alia, by index cuts and freezes, and the duration of both basic daily allowance and earnings-related unemployment benefit has been significantly reduced and, for example, increases have been removed. The level of general housing allowance is also being reduced again. This development is worrying because, for example, the European Committee on Social Rights believes that the level of Finnish labour market support and basic daily allowance is currently inadequate. According to the Government proposal, the active model increases the need for both housing allowance and income support by several million euros. It should be noted that income support contributes to the drop of a person’s entrapment from which employment for short-term work is in practice not worthwhile. Since the model treats people unequally, especially depending on their place of residence, it is in practice a reduction in unemployment benefit. If there are not enough vacancies and employment services available, it will be very difficult for the unemployed to meet the requirement for activity. The plight of the unemployed is also deepened by the fact that employment appropriations have been cut by more than a third of the 2015 level. Mr President! From the point of view of the unemployed, the active model appears to be mainly a reduction in unemployment security, not a model that encourages or supports activity. Instead of considering new ways of stalking unemployed people and cutting benefits under the guise of activation, the government should invest in a sensible employment policy, the dismantling of red tape on social security and, for example, the updating of the skills of unemployed people by supporting retraining.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u410	Mr President! The large income tax reductions implemented in the first half of the electoral period contributed to the reduction in unemployment. These tax reductions were the government's receipt to the employee party, which, thanks to the Kiki agreement, was very much short of its working conditions, and good results have also been seen. Tax reductions and other incentives will facilitate employment, especially in sectors where income would otherwise be scarce and it would be difficult to move, especially to the capital region. Unfortunately, however, the government is not going to reduce high unemployment simply by means of incentives, and an example of this is now the government's proposal for an active model of unemployment protection that has been submitted to Parliament and now under discussion. If the job seeker has not spent enough days at work or in the corresponding activation during the three-month reference period, his unemployment benefit would be reduced by as much as 5%. The reduction in compensation would not be affected by how actively the unemployed have applied for employment, but only by whether they have been employed or not. This seems to me to be a clear flaw, especially since TE Offices cannot offer work to all applicants. Mr President! In addition, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is preparing a separate model of active job search, which would force an unemployed person to seek a job approximately once a week, on average, at the risk of a long period of suffering, regardless of whether or not there are suitable job vacancies available in his or her home region. For small businesses in particular, over-expansion of applications can become a burden and the application procedure results in additional bureaucracy. Mr President! Thus, the introduction of two demanding sets of obligations seems to be a very heavy measure for many unemployed people, while hundreds of thousands of people are still unemployed. The government must therefore reconsider these two activation models and make them considerably more humane for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u411	Mr President! Indeed, the active model is part of a policy, as Mr Marin said, in which unemployment security has already been weakened in many different ways. As Mr Savio also pointed out, this so-called 'carcage package', which suggested that, within a certain period of time, there would be an obligation for the unemployed to submit a certain number of applications for employment, was taken side by side with this active model, at least earlier, but now it is somewhere. Indeed, if the Minister had been present, I would have asked what timetable this package of obligations is to be taken forward and when it will come. It is clear, however, that this active model, as it is, will increase the plight of the unemployed, and if we also include this planned package of handouts, it will be very bad. Mr Kontula then pointed out that some kind of opinion should be obtained from the Constitutional Committee. I am in favour of these justified points, which you have made, that it is good to have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-26-ps-93.u412	Mr President! Even at the moment, our legislation on unemployment security is so complex that even our officials cannot consistently interpret it around Finland, let alone that the unemployed themselves, even the educated unemployed, let alone the uneducated unemployed, would be able to understand what their rights are, what their duties are: if I move in that direction that much, what will happen to me? I am really concerned that even now this very Kafkaisian system will be further confused with the double sanctions which will lead to the disappearance of the slightest trace of reason that still exists there. That cannot possibly be reasonable in the rule of law. I am quite sure that if a few more of the people who legislate were to be able to test the unemployment benefit system in practice, and even from such a pre-arranged position, we would be able to re-write the entire legislation on unemployment security. It's already unreasonable.
