ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! During this weekend, we will witness a momentous moment. Representative Ilkka Kanerva will be the longest-standing MP in the history of our country. Tomorrow, on Saturday, he has been a Member of Parliament for 41 years, 11 months and 21 days. We always have a habit of calling each other names here in plenary. This is what I am doing this time too, and with particular respect for Mrs Kanerva's work. Mr Kanerva, in 1982 you were with the Finnish delegation at the UN General Assembly. You sent a letter from New York to your loved ones, the last two of which were worded as follows: "I am convinced that we are here on the right track. It's kind of great to be involved." That is exactly how we feel at the moment. We're all here for the right thing to do, working for our country. It is something particularly great to be able to do this work with you, Mr Kanerva. Your political expertise is unparalleled, and as a person, you are always friendly to everyone. On behalf of every Finnish and every Member of Parliament — former, present and future — I thank you for your historic fine work and friendship. I hope that you will improve this record for a long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u4	Mr President! I must thank and congratulate the Committee on Legal Affairs and its chairman for having produced a good and unanimous report on this matter in itself, and I believe that it can be adopted with a great deal of unanimity in this Chamber. In fact, this bill is based, as the chairman of the committee said, on a programme to combat the shadow economy and financial crime in the previous government, namely the programme to combat the shadow economy. By the way, that programme has already generated hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue for society. After all, the gray economy is deplorable that when someone is avoiding taxes or circumventing laws, he or she is taking a chill, and the rest of us are paying for it. The low-incomers pay for the grey economy chillers' game. This is why it can be said that, unfortunately, during this government's programme to combat the shadow economy has moved from the previous government's leap-steps to things like maybe babysteps or went even in some case backwards. Fortunately, for example, the Amnesty Act for Tax Refugees was withdrawn. Instead, the SDP has suggested that Finland should continue its programme to combat the shadow economy in a strong and leading way. We have presented a programme in paragraph 21 which would allow the government to continue. Criminalisation of underpaid jobs, ensuring greater transparency in different subscriber chains. Unfortunately, these proposals have not been heard. This too, as has been said, is based on the previous government's programme to combat the shadow economy. We expect the government to take a firmer hold on this work. Part of the informal economy is tax avoidance and tax evasion. To this end, too, the SDP has just presented paragraph 23 yesterday's anti-tax avoidance programme, prepared by SDP's tax expert Harakka. I wish the government could pull itself together in the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u5	Madam President! It is important that the current government continues to work with previous governments to combat the shadow economy and financial crime. The change to the business ban is one part of this fight against the shadow economy and financial crime. This is a very important activity. In practice, fraudsters and con artists of the shadow economy, when they leave taxes and statutory payments without paying, impose these payments on other taxpayers, just as Mr Lindtman said in his recent speech. Another aspect of the activities of such entrepreneurs is that they gain a superior competitive advantage from their illegal, criminal activities vis-à-vis other entrepreneurs in the same sector who take care of their obligations. With this tax and financial criminal's wallet at the heart of the fight against the black economy, it is an excellent thing that, during this parliamentary term, we have been able to impose a so-called reverse burden of proof on certain situations where people have already been convicted of financial crime, but it is a question of what kind of sanctions, liability obligations, the consequences for the loss of those concerned can still be imposed. This was an important change in this parliamentary term. Furthermore, the current government will continue to play an important role in combating and preventing financial crime and the shadow economy. That is a good and important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u6	Mr President! This proposal is therefore part of an intensified anti-gravity programme that the previous government has launched. What is essential here is that a business ban is imposed not only on incompetence, but more clearly on willfulness, in order to achieve great economic benefits, for example by withholding funds and profits, and by circumventing taxes. When tax avoidance regulations have become increasingly stringent throughout Finland, but also throughout Europe, in line with the tax avoidance directive adopted by the EU last summer, it is appropriate that sanctions in these cases of fraud should also be more severe in the case of targeted financial abuse. There has been a great European and, perhaps with the OECD, there has been a global change of political will when there is concern that aggressive tax planning is blocking the fair tax revenue needed to finance public authorities and public services. It is unfortunate that this global state of will is not reflected in the work of the Finnish Government, and this is a worrying example of which I have just mentioned the timetable for the national implementation of the EU tax avoidance directive. In other words, this directive should be implemented nationally next year. Sweden has already announced that it intends to apply interest rate reduction legislation more stringent than this minimum EU legislation, which is very welcome, and has already started legislative work. We're in the Netherlands for a hearing. But in Finland this is not part of at least this autumn's programme at the Ministry of Finance, possibly it will not be ready until next spring. In the worst case scenario, the consultation starts as a midsummer, then quick, contentious, sloppy preparation next autumn, and the elections fall on top, making all other matters more important than the success of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u7	Madam President! The government's proposal before us is a good example of the fact that the current government has wanted to continue its efforts to eradicate the black economy. The fact is, of course, somewhat different from what Mr Harakka said. Yes, the shadow economy and tax evasion have already been addressed before the previous government, and measures have been taken in previous governments. It is good that this programme of the shadow economy has been introduced during the last period, which has now been extended, but of course these measures have been taken in more than one government period, as has been the case. In order to eradicate the shadow economy, we must continue to work. As previous colleagues have said, someone will eventually pay the taxes that are not paid. This grey economy and tax evasion are taking place both smaller and larger, and measures have been addressed in all these different areas. For example, the household allowance has been one effective means of reducing tax evasion and undeclared work and has worked in an excellent way. In this proposal, the business ban will be strengthened. As the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, said, it is a tough measure and must be used in the right way. As he pointed out, there are situations where the problems may be clearly due to involuntaryness, and then there must also be ways in which humanity is to be displayed and given a new opportunity for entrepreneurs to get out of trouble. But a business ban is also an effective way of addressing the black economy, and this proposal is another excellent additional measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u8	Mr President! Mr Heinonen here interpreted what I said a little strangely. It is precisely the great contradiction here that previous governments, and in particular the previous government, were active in the fight against the shadow economy when it was not yet considered so important in other parts of Europe or elsewhere in the world. Minister of Finance Jutta Urpilainen was the first EU Finance Minister to gather her colleagues here in Helsinki to discuss aggressive tax planning in 2013. Finland was in the front line at the time
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u11	Madam President! About half of what Mr Haraka said was true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u14	Mr President! It has to be said that if this government were to use even part of the enthusiasm and activity it has used to tailor new tax reductions to its own background groups, such as pharmacists, I believe there would be hundreds of millions more tax revenues in Finland this year, even at the moment. It is true that the groundbreaking work was done last season: Minister Urplainen and Minister Ihalainen here took vigorously and made the programme to combat the black economy a top priority, and Finland was at the forefront in the fight against international tax evasion. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you: will we not shake hands and re-emphasise Finland to the top of this group? Will it be agreed that in this Chamber, as soon as possible, the government will bring forward a proposal for the implementation of the international tax evasion directive and for the elimination of the question of interest rates? Is it okay if we put a little buzz in here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u15	Madam President! All these things and their preparatory steps, to which reference has been made, I do not know and I do not know what is going on, but I know that if new measures and regulations in the grey economy could easily be picked up by hundreds of millions of additional government tax revenues as such low-level apples, then surely the previous government and that very energetic finance minister, Jutta Urplainen, would have taken these steps and these low-level, easily extractable hundreds of millions would have been better recovered at that point. So the present government has continued this work and it will continue to do so. I do not think there is any reason to belittle the work that is going on and, if it is going on together, the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u16	And now we are moving on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u17	Madam President! This law on a business ban is very welcome, and there is one thing I would have drawn particular attention to here: while we want to prevent the black economy from living with more stringent legislation, we also need to ensure that the conditions for an honest entrepreneur to operate, even if it is not profitable and may lead to bankruptcy, can be safeguarded. In this proposal, a great deal of attention is paid to the realisation of this entrepreneurial risk and, in particular, to the fact that, in order to impose such a business ban, the threshold has been raised here. The committee had a very careful, good debate about this, that this entrepreneurial atmosphere could still improve in Finland. After all, bankruptcy is a legal possibility to end an unprofitable business. That does not mean that a person who goes bankrupt as an entrepreneur does something wrong — this can only happen. I think the government will continue along this path. This is where this entrepreneurial spirit is reflected, and a business ban is not a delicate way of preventing future entrepreneurship, as it were. In that sense, I am very pleased with this unanimous proposal by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that so much attention was paid to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u19	Mr President! We are talking about a very important issue, the fight against the shadow economy, and I would now like to remind this Chamber that this was already the beginning of a list of 20 measures that Matti Ahte was working on, which was intended to take seriously. This was taken up by the previous Government of Katainen, in which Minister Urplainen was very active in taking these measures, in which he was also heard to do so, in which he was a pioneer and a number of actions. At the moment, this fight against the shadow economy is on the agenda of the Committee on Audit — Mr Heinäluoma is next to the chairman — and, among other things, last autumn, the committee held an open consultation on this fight against the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u24	Mr President! It is good that this law on a business ban is now being updated and that the work against the grey economy is getting new tools. It is very important that we also tackle tax evasion and the black economy internationally. But I would have taken two points from which the citizens are contacting us as parliamentarians today, and where perhaps it would clearly be appropriate to make improvements. One is that there is a great deal of fraud in electronic commerce. There are all kinds of Internet traders who do not exist, and the authorities' means of dealing with this type of trade seem to be missing or scarce, and when the world changes more in the direction of this digital and e-commerce, we should consider effective ways of doing this. The second thing I personally welcome is the report by the Ministry of Justice on the treatment of employment traps in connection with enforcement, which has now been completed in the summer. There are many honest entrepreneurs who, unfortunately, at the time of the recession of the 1990s or later have been insolvent, and once they have a desire to return to work, these incentivising traps of enforcement will prevent this. It would also be very important, in the spirit expressed here by Mr Laukkanen, to intervene in such a way that no one would deliberately be able to pass through this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u25	I would remind you that the meeting of the large committee is approaching, but Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u26	Mr President! I would now like to appeal to the people on the other side of the Chamber to take the hand of Mr Lindtman, now take up our offer to cooperate if you have the objective if we share the objective of making aggressive tax planning illegal and making it impossible to hide funds, which is the list of 23 concrete measures that we published the other day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-15-ps-88.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
