ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In his letter to Parliament of 8 June 2017, Nasima Razmyar has requested exemption from the post of representative since 9 June 2017 after being appointed Deputy Mayor of the City of Helsinki. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. — The ministers are almost all in the ministerial box. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask questions to one of the ministers present to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u3	Congressman Ojala-Niemel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u4	Mr President! Finland’s strength is that we are one of the most equal countries in the world. However, the negative effects of inequality have also begun to be reflected in the growth of differences in income, education and health. This week a Sorsa Foundation report was published in which Professor Hiilamo goes through 12 different recipes to reduce income differentials. Finland has moved permanently to a time of higher income inequality and greater inequality. The poorest are lagging behind because of long-term unemployment and social security cuts. From early childhood there is inequality if early childhood education and the services and financial support of families with children are not in order. Inequality is not inevitable and the consequence of economic growth, but can be influenced by policy. Prime Minister, now that the government is two years old and is in the middle of a review, how would you personally assess the government's success in reducing inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u5	Mr President! The development of inequality is a long-standing phenomenon in Finland and one of our most difficult problems. What has been most important in the first two years of the government is to reverse the trend of long-term unemployment. We now have 12,000 long-term unemployed fewer than a year ago, and this is perhaps the most important achievement we have achieved in order to halt the trend of inequality as a government, and this work must continue. We have also set up the Juho Saare task force, which will have until the end of this year to come forward with proposals on what would be the new measures to stop the development of inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u6	Next, I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u7	Mr President! Employment is, of course, the best remedy for inequality, but other measures are needed. Statistics tell us that as a result of your government's policy, the rich are getting richer and the low-income are getting poorer. For example, studies by the IMF show that high income disparities mean not only a weaker standard of living for the poorest, and even a lower standard of living that violates human rights in Finland, but also a lower level of economic growth. Taxation is an important tool for ensuring equality. However, this government has not tackled this; on the contrary, tax policy has increased income differentials. The government has not even believed the advice of the tax expert working group set up by the Ministry of Finance itself when the group called for a more equitable taxation by addressing obvious shortcomings in dividend taxation. So, Prime Minister, I ask you: will you change the direction of this unequal tax policy towards a more equal and income differential tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u8	Madam President! One of the reasons why the trend towards long-term unemployment has been reversed is precisely the fact that the government ruled out any increase in the gross tax rate from its tool pack. The increase in the tax rate will be translated into employment through the competitiveness of companies, and these means, which have been used in previous periods through tax increases, have weakened competitiveness, and this is reflected in the fact that last season there were 100,000 new unemployed and the trend of long-term unemployment could not be reversed. That is why it is important for us to insist that we do not increase the gross tax rate, but we will certainly be able to make fairer decisions within taxation. That's what you always have to strive for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u9	Mr President! At all times, but especially during Finland’s centenary year, we need to talk about Finland’s future: children. There are about 130,000 poor children in Finland. Poverty in single-parent families remains high, but in recent years the growth of poverty has been most pronounced in the infant families of two guardians. The poverty and inequality of families with children is due, among other things, to reduced income transfers, high fees, low education, unemployment and underemployment, such as temporary work, part-time work and zero-job contracts. Prime Minister, is your government going to improve income transfers for families with children, ban zero employment contracts, implement full-time full-time day care free of charge and reverse the weakening of families with children, such as the weakening of the right to day care for unemployed children? Is the government willing to help and sympathize with families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u10	Madam President! The poverty rate of single parents has risen. The concrete measure taken by the government is that the early childhood education contributions of the lowest incomes are being abolished by an increasing number.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u11	Madam President! Professor Heikki Hiilamo's key observation has been that if we look at different countries, we are used to thinking that small income differences and small inequalities as well as economic growth are each other's options and that we have to choose only one. Professor Hiilamo’s key observation is that, in fact, in countries where inequalities between people have been kept small, the conditions for economic growth will also improve. Then ordinary people will also have the opportunity to build a life, to consume, to live decent lives. It is also good for the economy. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, the actions of your government in the early years have taken the other way so far: the rich have become rich and the poor have become impoverished if we look at the effects of your decisions. I would like to ask: are you prepared to assess your tax policy in this regard, for example, in the forthcoming budget debate? We have now introduced tax reductions which are not in employment terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u12	Mr President! It is true that stopping the development of inequality will also support economic growth. In any case, these are not selection issues, mutually exclusive issues, but through economic growth, through the reduction of long-term unemployment, we will also be able to halt the development of inequalities, and this has been the key approach to this issue. This is our common problem. This is a long-term development in Finland, and none of us politicians are innocent of this development. That is why I very much welcome the fact that such a report has been made by the Social Democrats. I just got that report as a printout, and I'm going to get to know it very carefully. And I hope that the Juho Saare task force will also take all the input that can be achieved together. It's also up to us to stop this and find ways together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u13	Mr President! One way to measure inequality in society is income inequality. Small income differences are one of the signs of a good society, and the most successful countries in world prosperity are those with small income differences.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u16	Mr President! First of all, it is true that inequality is one of the worst problems in our society and, above all, it is the result of a long-standing high level of unemployment. According to statistics, income inequality has not increased much in Finland since the 1990s, but inequality is certainly due to unemployment. But when it comes to seeking ways to achieve both inequality and employment, I would venture to disagree with Professor Hiilamo — that is, that I do not believe that by tightening the pace, by tightening taxes at all, we can make the economy grow, increase employment or reduce income disparities. The best remedy is that we make the economy work, that people accept work, that they are offered jobs, that we get the employment rate up, that is, as many people as possible out of poverty. This is by far the best way. That is why I believe that the government's tax policy has been sensible. The tax burden on labour has been reduced by nearly one billion, 450 million to a reduction in the reduction in the tax burden on small and medium-sized labour income, which encourages work again and reduces the tax wedge on labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u17	Mr President! No direct conclusion can be drawn as to the link between the tax rate and the employment rate. On the contrary, the Nordic welfare model is a good example of the fact that high employment rates, high tax rates and low income disparities are fully compatible. More than one speaker has now mentioned improving employment as a remedy for increasing inequalities, but this is not sufficient as an instrument. There is no guarantee that even if the employment rate rises, even if wealth increases, prosperity will also be evenly distributed — unless conscious political decisions are made through taxation, social security decisions and also wage policy. So my question to the government is: Up until now, government policy has indeed been an increase in inequality. Government tax decisions have favoured high incomes and the basic security of low incomes has been cut. What conscious decisions does the government intend to take to reduce inequalities, in addition to investing in raising the employment rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u18	Mr President! As I recall, the late and respected Member of the Left Alliance, Outi Ojala, sometimes said that a strong state economy is the best friend of the poor. And that is the logic behind the employment and economic growth that you are calling for. If we have a high employment rate, a growing economy, then we have a stronger state economy. Debt breaks, and that will get us out of the eternal cycle of reduction, and we will have the opportunity to develop our welfare society, because ultimately equal, good and high-quality services for everyone is by far the best way to prevent inequality in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u19	Madam President! Indeed, in the last parliamentary term, taxation was tightened every year and there were 100,000 new unemployed, and it really increased inequality. Now that the government has defined economic policy to increase economic growth, it is causing tax revenues to increase and automatic stabilisations to reduce government spending and thus become a really stronger state economy, as Minister Orpo announced. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Orpo: would it not be a good idea instead of such a tempting tax policy to set up some kind of road map which would look to the great challenges of taxation for the future, so that it would contribute to the well-being of our economy and also to incentive, and that would allow us to really reduce inequality in Finland on the basis of the good proposals made by Professor Saare's working group?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u20	Mr President! In the mid-term debate, the government decided that we should look at taxation in a broader, road map-based way to achieve predictability and stability in tax policy, because it is a predictable and stable tax policy that is absolutely essential for us to be able to make our economic growth sustainable. We are starting the work here, and I am sure that the Committee on Finance and its tax section could also play a role in trying to find a common vision over the parliamentary term of what kind of tax policy is being implemented. I would also like to say that I believe that the basic principles of the government's tax policy are absolutely right. The overall tax rate must not increase, the income tax of any person must not increase, and we have placed emphasis on tax reductions, for example, in the taxation of labour on small and medium-sized income there, because it is of enormous importance to the increase in income there in the household, but also on the fact that it is worth taking up that job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u21	Madam President! One major change occurred in taxation when the property tax was abolished from the beginning of 2006. Minister Soini, you were in a large room in the opposition on 8 December 2005 when the then Finance Minister, Mr Heinäluoma, wanted to pardon the rich. Do you remember the great reason why the property tax had to be abolished? Minister Orpo, should the property tax be refunded because it would produce about 500 million dollars today in the state budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u22	Mr President! The government has no plans to refund the property tax. It is extremely important to us that there is capital in Finland, that there should be capital in Finland, because without capital there will be no investment in Finland and without investment there will be no jobs and jobs that will still be here in tens of years' time. Nevertheless, we must find a balance in tax policy in which we encourage the acceptance of work, work that is fair or progressive, as is the case in Finland, to hold on to it. But at the same time we must have a tax on capital and business that encourages investment and employment in Finland, because without jobs in the private sector that bring added value, we do not have our good public sector, which will bring us welfare services again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u23	Mr President! Fair taxation, a tax that people accept, is an essential part of a functioning society. When it comes to property taxation, it should be said that I was not a member of the government that decided to abolish the property tax in connection with the income solution in the autumn of 2004. However, I would like to defend the solution in that, while the property tax was abolished and the revenue of EUR 80 million was lost, a decision was made to levy dividends. Dividends came to tax, which amounted to nearly EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u26	Mr President! If Mr Heinäluoma refers in this class to the lowest dividends received by small enterprises,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u29	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u30	Mr President! Yesterday, an information conference was held on the Animal Welfare Act. I would like to thank Minister Leppää for coming to introduce the law to the Group of the Greens. The Animal Protection Act has been prepared for a long time. It is hoped that the reform will make Finland a pioneer country and model country in the welfare of farmed animals. Unfortunately, the draft government proposal does not fully meet these expectations. The well-being of cattle and pigs is ensured by making it possible to walk, exercise and outdoor activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u31	Madam Speaker! The new draft legislation on animal welfare, which has now been presented and will be submitted to the opinion in the autumn, is a law on animal welfare. The aim of this is to emphasise that it is the responsibility of every Finnish person to provide good care for animals, whether it is a hobby animal or a farm animal. This draft law contains a great deal of significant changes which modernise the law that is already lagging behind, which we currently have. It will bring many, many improvements to animal welfare. But we must also remember what our structure is on the productive animal side of Finland. It differs in many ways from other Nordic countries, let alone now, if we go further away. But in this way there are many, many good things for pain relief. There will also be clear deadlines for direct denial of these few things. There will be more reporting obligations, there will be more cooperation between the authorities and so on. I think this draft law is excellent. Now that it's sent to the deposition,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u32	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u33	Mr President! The Animal Welfare Act covers not only farm animals but also pets. Restrictions on too far-reaching processing are welcome. However, contrary to expectations, the draft law does not propose measures to establish the identification and registration of cats and dogs. So-called chipping could effectively interfere with a harmful puppy factory. At the same time, finding lost pets would be easier. The killing of animals would not be so frequent, especially as the legal reform would reduce the period of storage of the animals found. Mr Leppä, why has this matter not been included in the draft law and are you prepared to consider adding it to the law after the consultation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u34	Madam President! This is the way in which we want to go about breeding and breeding in the wrong direction. It's perfectly clear. I agree with the questioner. There are already some bad examples of this on the pet side. This is now a clear attempt to address this current practice and situation. This entry and the new systems on it: It is a good thing that we are now taking a position on this during this consultation and then, on the basis of this feedback, we will look at the measures that need to be taken. That is why I look forward with great interest and open mind to the outcome of the consultations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u35	Mr President! The measure of a civilised society is certainly how we take care of those who are unable to speak for themselves, and in that sense it is important that the Animal Protection Act is reformed with ambitious objectives. However, animal welfare organisations expressed concern about this, and they feel that these objectives are not ambitious enough and that there are clear shortcomings here, including the availability of continuous drinking water at the places where the animals are kept. I hope that these will be improved when this proposal comes to Parliament. President! I would also like to raise the issue of the Animal Protection Commissioner. Last season there was the post of the Animal Protection Commissioner, which the Social Democrats wanted to see in the government programme and carried out, and this government now gave it up. I would like to ask the Minister: could you point out a certain look to the future in the light of the fact that you could reinstate the role of the Animal Protection Ombudsman in the context of the reform of the Animal Protection Act?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u36	Madam President! That office of the Animal Protection Ombudsman was limited and the time limit expired and the time limit was not extended. Let's take a look at that, too. But as far as these other regulations are concerned, we must remember that we have a law that lays the foundation for all this, which is then supplemented by lower-level regulations, regulations and so on, and this becomes the big picture, this animal welfare law, which now, all in all, provides the animals with the means to secure, as it does. The most important thing is that we, all of us, have our own responsibility and a sense of responsibility for animals and that they are treated and kept well. It's all our responsibility. There is not much one official can do, but we can all do a lot, and I challenge every Finn to do so, that we treat all kinds of animals well in all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u37	Mr President! The old law is almost 20 years old. A great deal of reform is expected of the new. Most consumers, almost 100 per cent of Finns, want animals to be treated even better in the future than today. Here comes the problem, because meat producers, including pig producers, are getting a really low price for pork, almost the lowest price in the EU as a whole. How do we make this equation so that both are satisfied that animals get a good life and also meat producers get the price for their product so that they can continue with the producer? I will say that there is a lot of good in this draft, but there are things there that can be hoped for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u38	Mr President! A very important point is the potential for profitable production, and this balance is currently not in order in Finland. Farmers are in particular economic distress, profitability is weak, and we must force and inevitably change this. This correlates with everything we require from animal welfare, environmental protection. It is clear that Finnish production, whatever quality it is, is of high quality, is traceable, ethical and sustainable, and must also be reflected in the price that producers receive from their products. Unfortunately, that is not what it is doing: we are going far too far with a price bet and the fact that the price determines everything. Food — when we are talking about farm animals — has a price, but it also has value, and the better we treat animals, the better we deal with the environment, the more we are sustainable, the more value it has, and the more price it will have to show in the future. We also have records of this in the Government Programme, and this will come back when the report by Ilkka Mäkelä, the liquidator, is completed at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u39	Madam President! We are certainly all of the opinion that, in the future, ethical production methods and the sale of ethical meat will be targeted at those countries that best care for their animals. I do not believe that there is a very fast and rapid demand on the Asian market for how animals are treated here, but I am sure that the neighbouring market will appreciate that animals are treated well in the future. I would like to ask the question: has it been strongly thought now that voluntary digital surveillance can be carried out on farms and slaughterhouses, so that, at the request of an inspector, the trader authorises the use of video surveillance, which is already very widely available to producers? And secondly, it is true that the difficulty of breathing dogs, the luxuries of their knees, come to such a level that, according to people’s preferences, pets are no longer allowed to be processed in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u40	Madam President! To this last point: I fully agree, and that is why these entries in this law are and are further specified by lower-level regulations. It's obvious. As far as these other measures are concerned, what the sector itself can do, various organisations can do: I certainly encourage it. The more open we have this activity, the more reliable it is, and it will certainly be reflected in the market. These correlate and go hand in hand, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u41	Next question, Congressman Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u42	Mr President, ärade talman! Läkemedelsverket Fimeas huvudkontors placering har diskuterats i flera år. Senast i mars fick vi hur beslutet att flytta Fimeas huvudort till Kuopio hade fört Läkemedelsverket till ruinens brant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u43	Mr President! I would like to correct so much here that it was not a motion in itself, but a debate which was announced in public, quite rightly. Yes, Fimea deserves to work in peace. This is a very unfortunate matter that is stretched, prolonged and perhaps complicated along the way. But you asked me if there was a show. That is not the case at the moment, but it is still in progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u44	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u45	Mr President! In order for Fimea to be able to carry out its task in a long-term and successful manner and to succeed in international competition, it must be able to hold on to its current experts and also be able to recruit new experts. I would like to ask Minister Mattila: if perhaps one of the government partners rejects this idea of compromise, how will the government ensure that Fimea has the best knowledge and expertise at its disposal regardless of the final head office decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u46	Mr President! Now we can't get ahead of things. There is no crystal ball to see, what kind of performance is coming, who is going to reject what, is it, however, that the decision may also be unanimous? But on that point I fully agree with you that Fimea is an agency of excellence. Finland has excellence in the field of pharmaceutical safety, in other words pharmaceuticals, and in that respect I see that Fimea’s excellence will continue to be useful in the future. How does the government secure it? It is also, of course, a matter for the agency itself how and what conditions it operates, but we are trying to find the best possible solution for Fimea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u47	Madam President! Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior has not exercised the powers of control and control over these years, which it should exercise in the case of Fimea. Fimea has drifted from one government to another, and now we're guessing where it is. The decision is clear: Kuopio is the main location of Fimea. Activities have been decentralised to several locations, up to London. I, too, am concerned about how Finnish pharmaceutical safety is being promoted. When you say where you get top-notch: It is interesting to note that the University of Eastern Finland is the one that produces the excellence that Fime also needs in its own work. The employees are happy. The sector has developed well in this respect. However, it must be noted that the management of that agency has not been at the level of its tasks, nor has it complied with the political and governmental decisions that this Fimea has taken. I ask the Minister how well you are aware of this very fact, how much the University of Eastern Finland produces
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u48	Mr President! First of all, I would like to correct, that is where Mr Rossi mentioned that the Ministry of the Interior has not exercised control.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u51	Madam President! Let's get back to where we started. This was Vanhanen's second government measure, Minister. By Hyssälä, the STM decided to transfer Fimea to Kuopio. It didn't work out in practice. In practical work it has appeared that Helsinki has been one of the central places. We have now come to a situation where one part of the activities is in Kuopio and the central part of pharmacovigilance and international cooperation is here in Helsinki. And now several studies have been carried out, one after the other, in which it has been suggested that this status quo will now be stopped and held here, this situation will be calmed down now that things have calmed down there. In the fall, I asked this question. Minister Soini then, as Deputy Prime Minister, replied that it would be possible to move forward from this rational point of view. My question now is: could this decision not be taken by the government to calm this matter down? Fimea is dependent on external donors, there are millions of issues there, and that is why we have to take care of knowledge and that this issue is under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u52	Madam President! But please do not shoot the messenger, because I am the sixth minister on his desk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u54	Madam President! Fimea is an organisation whose expertise is very important. As regards the location of Fimea, a number of reports have now been made for several ministers. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u55	Madam President! Of course, I can't speculate on those possibilities. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u56	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u57	Madam President! It was announced from the beginning of the week that the social welfare laws will not be completed by the beginning of July, which means that the treatment of social welfare laws will be delayed even more than previously anticipated. However, the Government has stubbornly decided to insist on the date of the regional elections on 28 January 2018, i.e. during the first round of the presidential elections. The Council of Europe recommends that electoral legislation should always be in place at least one year before the elections, and in that sense too we are very late. The electoral period under the Election Finance Act will begin on 1.7., and with these prospects we will not even have legislation by then. I would have asked Prime Minister Sipilä: would it not now be sensible to move those elections forward and do so in order to get the legislative work required by the regional and social elections carefully completed? The election could be held, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u58	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal, which is before Parliament, is that the regional elections will take place in connection with the presidential elections on the third weekend of January 2018. It's in the hands of the Parliament. The government is aware and was also aware at the preparatory stage that such a recommendation exists, but it is indeed a recommendation. As we all know in this House, there is a rather strong electoral position and, in fact, Mr Essayah also knows that it is precisely here recently that the parliamentary party secretaries have examined whether we should combine the forthcoming parliamentary elections and the European elections. I do think it is a good time, as we have in this government proposal in relation to these regional elections, and that we will also have time to go to the elections, even though Parliament is careful to deal with this legislative package.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u59	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u60	Madam President! Surely the Council of Europe has not, for its own amusement, made such recommendations. After all, in Finland we have very little experience of how elections are combined. Last time the elections have been combined in connection with the regional elections in Kainuu, a number of ballots of different colours were used, yet there were exceptional votes, and I would stress that there was an exceptional number of votes. When, then, will the government start informing the public, and how will it cope? If it seems that legislation is only about to be completed by the end of autumn, how is the government prepared to do so so, so that we do not have the complete chaos of bringing these elections together, apart from the fact that this time for informing citizens is so exceptionally short?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u61	Mr President! I myself asked the Ministry of Justice at the beginning of the year whether it would be possible to inform the regional elections earlier, now this spring. And it was very clear from the Ministry of Justice that when we have municipal elections in April, it is worth doing one election at a time, that is to say to inform citizens about municipal elections that winter, that is, the past winter. And now that we are looking at these coming months and the regional elections and the presidential elections, they are such an election that there will certainly not be any confusion between the candidates. I believe that this information can be done quite well for the citizens. And as far as this is concerned, whether they can be arranged in time, the Ministry of Justice has publicly and, in my opinion, also stated here in the parliamentary committees that it is possible and technically possible to move forward. But it's true that it's good to be able to do it faster.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u62	Mr President! Of course, as far as the regional elections are concerned, it is a rather strange situation that, when the legislation on this whole reform is still in place, it is being dealt with in Parliament, and not all the laws have even entered Parliament in this regard, then we should start preparing for the elections. And if you think of those who want to be candidates, I guess they'll be interested in what stage they can start collecting election funding. Now that there is no legislation in place, that is not yet possible. You'd think we'd be aware of this, too, in the ministerial box. If we now consider these regional elections, the original idea was that they would then be transferred to the municipal elections and this would then be the first time in 21 C.E. In other words, would it not be good to think now that, if these first elections were to be postponed until 21 C.E. and then elected from the municipalities on the basis of population, this temporary administration, which will then run the provinces until then?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u63	First of all, when this social reform is being carried out and regional reform is also being carried out, we want to go straight to democracy and to have direct decision-makers in these elections. And perhaps I would also like to say that we can hold different elections at the same time: in the neighbouring country of Sweden, we are voting in three elections at the same time, so I cannot consider it problematic that we in Finland should hold two elections at the same time. But then I would also like to say whether the future candidates and the citizens know where they come from: the law that is being dealt with here in Parliament, that is, the Regional Law, Section 6 There, it is very clear what the duties of its province are. In other words, who is thinking right now and this summer is considering his own candidacy: it is well known what the provinces will decide. But, as I said, it is important that laws should also be put into effect as soon as possible, which would give certainty to this whole process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u64	Mr President! It is irresponsible decision-making to make such a huge and significant reform in such a huge hurry. We don't even know about the Growth Service Act yet. We have not yet received a proposal here, and the Growth Services Act is an important element in the range of regions. It is problematic in terms of democracy, but also in terms of the capacity of the future provinces, to move on with such a fast pace, because in early autumn, the temporary administrations of the provinces will not be able to start and prepare for the forthcoming elections and build a new province when this is the case. Mr President! How can we ensure that the regions are prepared on this timetable, and how can we, with this timetable, ensure the real realisation of democracy when not even all the laws have been passed on to Parliament? Why can these elections not be postponed and, if necessary, transferred to parliamentary elections or kept separate elections? Would that not be responsible decision-making?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u65	I will respond to that in such a way that we have quite a few elections ahead of us. I find it difficult to see that someone would like to have another election for this year 18, between now and then, at the time of the parliamentary and European elections. But then I will come back to the fact that how the provinces are prepared: there are, of course, differences in the way in which the preparatory work has started, but there are also many examples of the fact that the preparatory work has already begun to take place in that phase of the interim administration. And we on the government side have also supported the preparation of the provinces in such a way that the actual budget will amount to EUR 33 million for this year's preparatory work for the provinces and in the draft amending budget we added EUR 22 million and also a record that it will be possible to start paying for each province from July onwards for preliminary preparation. That we do not have to wait for the laws to be passed and that interim administration actually gets under way. In other words, we are working very hard to support this preparation during this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u66	Next question, Congressman Paloniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u67	Mr President! The participation of women in mediation is a theme in which Finland has much to offer, more than we are doing at the moment. Our attention has been paid to this and the number of women has been pleasantly increased, but it is different in the world. At present, women represent only 5% of peace negotiators on average. Therefore, more women are definitely needed for international mediation missions and for the peace negotiations themselves. In the OSCE, we are also working very hard on this. The Finnish delegation has been very active in this. I would like to know how the government could contribute to strengthening the role of women in peace processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u68	Madam President! This question by Mrs Paloniemi is extremely important. Internationally, it has been found that conflicts involving women in mediation are resolved more quickly, better, more humanely, with less bloodshed than others. In this way, we have recently had several conferences on this theme. This morning I was opening up an opportunity specifically for mediation and this type of thing. This is also very important in preventing radicalisation. Everyone knows that if a man listens to someone, the mother listens. In that sense, it is very important that these mothers are involved in this work to eradicate this radicalism. In this respect, I will do everything in my power and in good cooperation with Mrs Paloniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u69	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u70	President! First of all, we must thank the government for the fact that when the new US policy has been to reduce funding from some UN organisations, which are of particular importance to women and to reproductive health, Finland and the other Nordic countries have come to help with this. It is an important gesture and it is very important that these organisations be supported. But I would have asked how the Foreign Minister sees the role of women in perhaps strengthening parliamentaryism. When we look at Arab Street and, for example, A successful change of power in Tunisia as such, and it would be very important to train women parliamentarians, to establish contacts. South Sudan is a similar region, perhaps even that Gulf region and North Africa, where the strengthening of democracy requires that we also get women there to make political decisions. What could Finland do more in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u71	Madam President! In some countries, such as Afghanistan, quotas for women have been established in Parliament. This is, although I otherwise have no relation to a special quota policy supporter, as a first step in this kind of culture, where traditionally women have not been able to participate, in my opinion reasonable and morally sustainable. When societies move forward, then, of course, free elections will be elected. But, of course, we have the need for good examples and profile people, and these types of people also exist in many Arab countries. One of the outstanding foreign ministers of the Muslim country is Retno, the Indonesian Foreign Minister and enjoys great respect. After all, Finland is a good model because we have had a woman as President, Prime Minister, in all positions. In this respect, we are a living example of working equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u72	Madam President! We really have had a great deal to contribute to equality work in the world. We have promoted sexual health care, women's, children's, girls' education. These have been one of the key issues for us. We have indeed been able to serve as an example of the fact that we ministers have been on parental leave and paternity leave. We have had as many women and men ministers, we have had the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the President of the Republic as a woman. But now that you're looking at the cabinet, we've taken quite a step backwards. Most of the ministers are men. If you look at the front row, you want to bring the most recent minister, Minister Terho, to the front row of the more experienced ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u73	Mr President! I agree with that. The rules of the game have been agreed here that each group is responsible for ensuring that equality is achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u74	Mr President! Women produce half the world's food, earn a tenth of their income, own one-hundredth of their property, but in addition to women's rights, we should also talk about the rights of young people globally. Indeed, more than half of the world's population are under 25 years of age. When we talk about parliamentary representation, we have to ask how it corresponds to the population and proportion of parliaments, how many young people we have in the world. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: have you, through your work, met young parliamentarians and have you been able to do something to promote this equality and development between generations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u75	Congressman Elovaara, I would like to remind you of the word in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u76	Madam President! I am really happy and proud that there is a talented young woman in the Finnish Parliament Group, Mr Elovaara. That's when someone tells you there's going to be progress. As far as foreign countries are concerned, we have quite a few countries where ministers look like this. There is nothing wrong with it in itself, but this seems to be the case. Of course, the fact that young people should vote for young people in Parliament is one thing. That is how we get more of them and, of course, a good young candidate can also vote and recommend. In these, however, international cooperation between young parliamentarians is also very important between the various parliaments, and I favour and strongly encourage it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u77	Madam President! It has indeed been said that the peace process will only last when women are involved, just as the Minister said earlier. The prerequisite for women’s participation is that in developing countries girls get to school, and girls’ and women’s pathways do not break prematurely. For this reason, I would ask the government what Finland could do even better so that Finnish education skills, perhaps as part of Finnish development cooperation, would be exported to developing countries for the protection of girls and help girls to receive education so that they can participate in and influence society's processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u78	Mr President! Thank you for your important point of view. Finland can participate not only through development cooperation but also through a wide range of knowledge sharing. I had the opportunity to spend the last week in South Africa, where much has been done to ensure that the entire age group could attend school, both girls and boys, but the quality and equality of education there are very serious challenges. Finland participates, among other things, through teacher education cooperation, and the University of Helsinki, for example, has very close cooperation with local teacher trainers, including in order to develop and promote its quality so that more and more children and young people in the world and hopefully everyone in the future will have access to a whole educational path and to the many opportunities of life. In other words, we can increase this international cooperation, and also through education exports Finland can add value from the point of view of exports of know-how, and of course it also serves our domestic needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u79	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 3/2017 vp. In this context, we can also present schedule 5. the matter and the debate are also allowed on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u80	Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of the OSCE as an important and necessary framework for strengthening stability and security in Europe in the context of the examination of the 16 activity reports of the Finnish delegation to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The OSCE principles, together with the UN Charter, continue to constitute a fundamental pillar of European security and a normative basis. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's agenda continued to be dominated during the reporting year by the Ukraine crisis and a serious blow to the OSCE's cooperative security model as a result of Russia's action. The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of constructive dialogue among all parties involved in dealing with the crisis in Ukraine and welcomed the efforts of the Finnish delegation to step up parliamentary cooperation in the search for a solution to the conflict, although in practice the task has proved to be quite challenging. In the work of Ilkka Kanerva, as Chairman of the General Assembly, the Ukrainian crisis was also strongly emphasised. The aim of promoting the implementation of the Minsk Agreement through an active dialogue with the highest leadership in Ukraine and Russia was important. In addition to dialogue and dialogue, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of the organisation's field missions in the work of the OSCE. With regard to Ukraine, the committee noted its concern about the increased security risks for mission personnel. It is important that sufficient attention is paid to this issue in order to ensure safe and effective working conditions for experts. The committee also welcomed the efforts made by the Finnish delegation during the reporting year to develop the OSCE mediation capacity. Finland has internationally recognised capital and resources in this area, and it is natural to make use of it also within the OSCE. Here, too, the election of Mr Ilkka Kanerva as representative of the General Assembly for mediation was very supportive of this work. The development of OSCE mediation activities may, inter alia, seek ways of promoting the resolution of protracted conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh, Transnistria, South Ossetia and Asia. Mr President! As in previous years, as one of the OSCE's important traditional tasks, the Committee also stresses the importance of election observation. During the reporting year, the General Assembly also monitored a number of important international parliamentary elections, including in Belarus and Russia, as well as presidential elections in the USA. The active participation of the Finnish OSCE delegation in election observation missions and in the development of observation work is important in the future. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs also raises the issue of cooperation between the NB8, the Nordic countries and the Baltic States, both in relation to the OSCE and also in relation to the work of the Council of Europe. The establishment of this cooperation within the OSCE is welcomed with joy. Together, the NB8 countries will be able to strengthen their influence on international issues within the wider field of activity of the organisation. Mr President! The report of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe will contribute to publicising the Council's important work on the protection and development of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. In discussing the report of the Finnish delegation last year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of the organisation and the importance of its basic tasks, particularly at a time when the rule of law, freedom of expression and other fundamental values and principles of the organisation are also being challenged in established democracies. In particular, the situation in Turkey developed in a worrying direction during the year 16. The Committee on Foreign Affairs shares the serious concerns expressed in the Council of Europe regarding the increased restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly in Turkey, the reduction in the independence of the judiciary and the violence against the Kurds. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also places particular emphasis on the lifting of the immunity of parliamentarians and the arrests they have been subjected to. In order to support the development of the rule of law in the Member States of the Council of Europe, the committee stresses the importance of the work of the Organisation's Monitoring Committee. During the reporting year, the development of the rule of law in Poland led, inter alia, to the inclusion of the country on the monitoring committee's working list. The UaV stresses the need for close cooperation between the Committee and Poland, as well as with the other Member States under review, to bring the rule of law back on track. The Committee welcomes the fact that the members of the Finnish delegation have been active in the work of the Monitoring Committee. The committee is concerned about a trend in which the obligations of the Member States of the Council of Europe are not met by an increasing number of Member States. In order to question the principles and decisions of the organisation and to complicate the functioning of the organisation, it is necessary to consider the conditions under which the organisation operates. An important part of monitoring and the work of the Council of Europe in general is monitoring the elections, and it is good that this work continued actively during the reporting year. It is a pity that the General Assembly was not invited to observe the elections in the Russian Duma. This is one indication of the deadlock in relations between the Council of Europe and Russia, and it is difficult to see the normalisation of relations as long as there is no political solution to the crisis in Ukraine. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs also wishes to draw attention to the work of the Council of Europe to prevent and stop violence against women. It is good that this important topic was one of the top themes of the General Assembly in 16 C.E. In particular, the Istanbul Agreement is of great importance and it is important that its implementation is continued and extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u81	Mr President! The Ukrainian crisis and the attack on OSCE principles caused by Russian activity were known to have marked last year's activity. In the absence of significant positive progress, these same issues will also be on the agenda of this year's session, which will take place in a few weeks' time in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. The draft resolutions and the proposals for members as an additional subject already suggest that the debate on the Ukraine crisis and on respect for the OSCE principles will continue. Similarly, the state of democracy in Belarus and its weaknesses are at stake in the debate. Meeting at the same time In Minsk, we have an excellent opportunity to get to know the situation there in Belarus. It is good to remember that Belarus is only an hour and a half away from Helsinki — our neighbourhood. One of the special features of the OSCE is its preventive action and finding a peaceful solution to crises. The number of conflicts and crises has increased and their nature has become more complex. The means of tough security to manage prolonged crises have produced little results and, at the same time, have caused great human suffering and tension. We therefore need new ways of responding to today's crises. For this reason, the Finnish delegation already took the initiative in 2014 to extend mediation with a parliamentary dimension. As a result of this initiative and resolution, the General Assembly will now be represented by Mr Ilkka Kanerva, Special Representative for Mediation. Of course, the Finnish delegation fully supports the work of Mrs Kanerva. Our common understanding is that, when it comes to peace mediation, it will lead to a more stable and peaceful international relationship. Peace mediation is not only a preventive tool but also a means of finding solutions to the current crises. In addition to this, gender equality and the inclusion of women are themes that I myself have raised in my own speeches in different situations. Another important issue in which I really hope to see progress is the participation of women in mediation, as we discussed in Question Time. At present there are only about 5% of the peace negotiators, and women are certainly more needed for international mediation and for peace negotiations themselves. Women have skills, and women also play a role in the prevention of terrorism on many occasions, as Mr Soini said. The OSCE General Assembly's Special Representative for Mediation, Ilkka Kanerva, together with the General Assembly's Special Representative for Gender Equality, Hedy Fry, has prepared an additional proposal for inclusive women mediation by the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. This is an important step in promoting participatory mediation in the OSCE. On a more general level, it is important to discuss how to encourage women to participate in politics. In the past, I myself have suggested the idea of setting up a women's network in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, in the same way as the women's network in the Finnish Parliament. The aim of the network would be to promote equality and to bring women's perspective to the decisions of the General Assembly. The network could organise seminars, visits, meetings, make proposals, prepare contributions and keep in touch with representatives of women from other international interparliamentary organisations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has welcomed the consolidation and intensification of cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries. Our delegation shares this view. As an addition, it is important to have contacts and exchanges of views with other like-minded countries, i.e. countries with which Finland has joint projects in other international fora. We believe that it is also appropriate to engage in this kind of synergy with other international delegations in Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has raised the issue of election observation in this report. The OSCE's Finnish delegation will continue to invest in international election observation, and this will increasingly take place in cooperation with the Finnish delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As we look at the world situation at the moment, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will play an important role. Parliamentary dialogue and diplomacy increase understanding of different aspects and, at best, can open diplomatic nodes and contribute to positive development. However, it requires that we adhere to a commonly agreed basis of values and that we all act accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u82	I now give a two-minute response to the chairman of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe, Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u83	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity to make this brief speech already in this context. Then, on the next point, I will go into more detail on this report by our Finnish delegation to the Council of Europe. Indeed, already in this context, thank you very much for the desire of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to reform the work of the reports of the international delegations through the simultaneous consultation of the reports of the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the Nordic Council of Ministers in that committee. This will contribute to the exchange of information on the direction of delegations towards the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also between delegations. The Council of Europe delegation shares this objective and can say that information on the plenary sessions of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe, which are four times a year, is already being forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, both before and after the sittings. Such a dialogue between the committee and the delegations is extremely important if we are to remain informed here about the topical issues that will be dealt with in the context of these activity reports. The situation in Turkey, the general situation in Europe, the refugee crisis, the rights of girls and women, including the situation in Russia, is currently being spoken in the Council of Europe, just as it is on the OSCE side. After all, Russia has not taken part in the General Assembly meetings in response to this crisis in Ukraine. Originally they themselves went away, and then sanctions were also imposed so that at present they are not actually taking part in this Assembly sitting, where the parliamentarians of the countries who are discussing each other are involved. And it is very important that at some level, however, we maintain this dialogue between countries, including those countries where we feel that the values and fundamental pillars of the Council of Europe, for example, are not fully realised. This also applies to Turkey and, for example, Hungary and Poland. It is very important that they too should hear what the rest of Europe thinks about what is happening within their countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u84	Mr President! The values and activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe focus on security, human rights, democracy and freedom of expression. I myself would also like to emphasise the environmental issues which are to some extent reflected in this report. Environmental issues, the Paris climate agreement and the role of the USA have become more and more important in the debate. Environmental issues are also linked to refugees, and hence to security and human rights, among other things. The crisis in Ukraine remains on the agenda, unfortunately. The OSCE provides a platform for dialogue, doing significant work in this respect. Election observation is of great importance in the OSCE's work. Free elections are the cornerstone of democracy. Elections involve threats, growing threats, such as the use of disinformation, more aggressive speech, outright abuse of communication tools, which is also partly reflected in this report. I myself would like to emphasise, at all possible events, as at this point, the need to safeguard the position of journalists. They're doing important work. Their task is to provide proper information about crisis scenes, and anything that endangers the work of a journalist is reprehensible. Ms Paloniemi, spokesperson for the role of women, pointed out. We have excellent work on mediation: Mr Haavisto, President Ahtisaari, to name a few names. In the future, there will also be strong mediation women in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u85	Mr President! The role of the OSCE is always particularly emphasised in such challenging and difficult times. Our country has played an important role in peace building and in the wider OSCE, and hopefully that role will be at least as strong as it is now and, hopefully, stronger in the future. In this few speeches on the crisis in Ukraine, it has been said that the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered dialogue to be important in resolving the crisis. It must of course be said that the key to the resolution of the crisis lies in the hands of Russia, which in 2014 took over Crimea from another independent country, and this is of course the key to this final solution, that Russia respects the status of an independent state. Of course, the worrying news about Ukraine was that the OSCE American observer also died there. Of course, news of this kind is worrying. Mr President! The second concern concerns Turkey. The internal situation in Turkey is a problem and, of course, we must be able to support the fact that it is going in a different direction rather than where Erdogan is taking it at the moment. However, Turkey also plays an important role from the point of view of Daesh and also from the point of view of the refugee crisis, and that is why it is important to strengthen dialogue with Turkey and to try to find a way that would strengthen Turkey as a Western democracy rather than on the path to which the country is unfortunately going at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u86	Mr President! Finland has an important role to play in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. It is a constructive debater, an active player and a trusted partner with a clear impact. If Finland were to follow the way it operates in Europe, the world would be a much safer place. At the moment, the world is not as stable as we all would like. That is why we need Finnish stability and expertise as a peace builder. It is a privilege for Finland to have been able to choose and assign to these tasks persons with long parliamentary experience and an international vision, as did Mrs Kanerva and now also Mrs Paloniemi. The Committee on Foreign Affairs rightly notes that mediation as one of the priorities of Finland's foreign policy has increased, and it is good that the Finnish delegation has also invested in developing the organisation's mediation capacity in the OSCE during the reporting year. Last night I came from Israel, where there is still this very important inflamed situation in the Middle East, and I would see that Finland could play a more important and important role in the conflicts in the Middle East and in the debate that has been very inflamed there. Finland has been known to be a friend of Israel always, we have a huge network of NGOs active both here in Finland and in Israel. Mr President! This is where I throw a little ball to the OSCE and its actors to think about what could be Finland's constructive role in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u87	Mr President! The OSCE is a child of our Finns. It has played a truly important role in international cooperation and in building relations between states since the 1970s. We have every reason to be proud of this and to be Finnish, both as politicians and as citizens, to invest in the future of this cooperation. The OSCE represents an attempt to resolve disputes and disputes in a peaceful manner, while also representing a commitment to democratic values and democratic democracy of these values, free and fair elections. The OSCE's activities in election observation are also very important in order to maintain high standards and ensure that all OSCE countries behave in a manner that respects fundamental rights, including in elections. While we know the great history of this organisation and also the important work that parliamentarians have done for the OSCE, we have to say that the last few years have been quite difficult. The OSCE has been in a situation where it has found it difficult to deal with conflicts and to do the work for which it was set up in 75 years here in Helsinki — this also relates to the crisis in Ukraine and the resolution of this crisis. And we have also seen backward steps in election observation. We know that the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly here in Helsinki a year ago was very weak and was unable to fill this instrument of real dialogue. Now we have an experienced parliamentarian – including in OSCE matters – whom we all appreciate as a candidate for the new OSCE Secretary-General. I must say that Mr Kanerva did an excellent job in the office of President of the OSCE in difficult circumstances. I therefore consider it important that we in Finland across party boundaries can support this OSCE Secretary-General project, and I hope that there will be a broad consensus on this in the various political groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u88	Mr President! When the President allows a debate on both reports in this context, I would like to talk a little about the work of both delegations and, in particular, the cooperation between the two, and I am not going to go into these matters, which in themselves are very important and essential in the work of both delegations. I would also like to express my thanks to all those in this House who are also involved in these international tasks. I believe that this is something that we should increasingly pay attention to. I am a little concerned that, on many occasions, Members of Parliament are experiencing these international tasks, which sometimes require a bit of travel, as if they were extra work, when they are rather the real work that we are supposed to do here. I feel that all those representatives who give their own time and expertise to these matters deserve thanks on behalf of the whole Parliament. Mr President! I would also like to say that there is an order for this international cooperation between parliaments now more than ever. We are in a very precarious, unstable world political situation, and there are also numerous conflicts or disagreements going on in our own continent, and that is what we need cooperation for. For it is much easier to start disputes, to point the finger at one another, to blame another for not knowing, not knowing the backgrounds of different things, different cultures and politicians. By increasing this understanding, cooperation will be easier and we will probably be able to anticipate and prevent crises. President! In conclusion, I would just like to say that I believe that cooperation between delegations should continue to be stepped up, and it is good that it is being done, but also other work within Parliament. I hope that the Parliamentary forum on international affairs, which will reflect on these issues, will also contact the ministries so that the ministries will also see:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u89	Mr. Speaker! Mr Heinäluoma, in his own speech, may have referred to the fact that the OSCE has faced a rather difficult phase, as the whole international situation, of course, tells us in many different ways. I agree with the assessment. I also agree with the view that the decision-making toolbox, as it were, unfortunately wants to prove to be too many times less well-equipped, and therefore we must really continue to think actively and not give up on the question of how to improve the efficiency of international organisations in decision-making and, above all, their effectiveness. This work has been done In the OSCE in recent years, there are quite a lot of different contexts, both at parliamentary and intergovernmental level, but I regret to say that precisely because of this tension in the international situation, the results are not what could reasonably be hoped and expected. It is not a lack of models — it is, as everyone understands, more a lack of political will, what is reflected in our security regulations. In one respect, however, we are in a special position as Finns. I am best acquainted with the OSCE, not so much the Council of Europe and the other institutions, and we Finns have a special feature that clearly receives attention and appreciation, and it has perhaps come to me a little unexpectedly too, something that I do not want to be in contact with before Parliament, and that is the concept of broad security. It is quite difficult for us to argue — if there is any deep analysis of the various crises, conflicts, problems — that only one thing would explain the fundamental nature of international problems. Most often, these conflicts arise on an unfortunate basis, even on a broad basis, through the integration of matters. And so the philosophy of comprehensive security, which perhaps we should open up here in Finland, is, as it were, an export product that was born — I think Mr Heinäluoma referred to it — as early as the birth of the OSCE back in 75 C.E. It served the national interest of Finland at the time, but it brought principles to the international political scene, which have generally been sought to be respected, and we are now at a stage where they are being challenged. In exactly the same way as the ten principles of the three baskets at the time, the ten principles of what, say, the rules of transport in international politics should be followed, so in a similar way, over the years, the concept of comprehensive security can be a model that is taken as an approach to a new level of resolution of international crises. In this context, I would like to highlight the work of the Finnish delegation on that parliamentary side and, as a member of the current delegation, I can say that the work carried out under the leadership of Mr Paloniemi at the OSCE PA deserves all the support and respect, because he takes a very courageous and proactive position on the debates and thematics of his delegation, as well as on the conduct of election observation throughout the OSCE area. It is important that Finland is true and is active and proactive in these matters, because in fact the OSCE, like the Council of Europe, is a forum for dialogue and diplomacy. We are not a military player, but we are looking for peaceful models of mutual understanding to deal with international problems, and in this sense the OSCE, like the Council of Europe, is also important in difficult military matters such as those we are currently facing in Ukraine. There was a reference to the Middle East. The nature of the crises in the Middle East, if possible, is even more difficult and deeper than we see in the processes of prolonged conflicts throughout Europe today. But this is a geographical area which is not directly the territory of the OSCE Member States, despite the fact that the countries of the Middle East are observers in the OSCE. The OSCE is by far the largest security organisation in the Northern Hemisphere, but the Middle East is not directly the subject of the OSCE, and that is why, of course, we must be a little careful here before we take a position that 'yes, we will be very careful about this'. There's one single thing I want to do here... — I do not know, Mr President, how much time is available for this at all. [Second Vice-President ArtoSatonen : 10 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u92	Mr President! Here, after Mrs Kanerva's good speech, it is possible and, of course, a pleasure to share her message. If this Chamber alone were to decide on the future Secretary-General of the OSCE, I think that the result would be very unanimous in the interests of Mrs Kanerva. It is a pleasure to support him and encourage this important election. I would have drawn attention to a few points in this report and its discussion — and perhaps the importance of parliamentaryism in Europe at all. We have mentioned problematic areas, the situation in Turkey, the situation in Russia and so on. I find it terribly important that, within the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly of both the Council of Europe and the OSCE, we speak for parliamentarianism, for a multi-party system which suddenly seems to be under threat here and there. Finland has a lot to offer here, a good Finnish model, also in terms of equality, as has been said earlier. With regard to the question of how to restrict or sometimes hinder the involvement of parliamentarians in these organisations, I am very conservative. If you look at the Finnish Constitution already from that time of Swedish rule, we have had the principle that the MP cannot be prevented from participating in the parliament. I will also read to this House about the activities of this General Assembly, and in that sense it is important that it provides a forum for discussion for these various actors, a genuine forum for discussion also for those who are criticised from time to time. I refer here to Mr Guzenina's speech. Then, Mr President, I would have raised one area which has not been mentioned here, and that is the Balkans. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly met in Macedonia. We had a good meeting there, but the internal problems of the country and a sort of potential conflict haven for the Balkans as a whole were well raised in the debate. I would also like to highlight the situation in Kosovo and the strengthening of Kosovo as part of the international community in this context. It is a challenge for both the OSCE and the Council of Europe that we can accept. I know, Mr President, that time is limited here, but if you will allow me one last point that I would like to raise here. We may often have a very old-fashioned picture in some of the OSCE that it stabilises in some way the division of Europe or the Cold War, but in fact the third basket of the OSCE in that year 75 was launched in Central and Eastern Europe by the Helsinki Groups, the human rights debate and, in fact, a major change, the results of which we then see as such a larger European project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u93	Mr President! It is true that Finland has been a European influence in the OSCE as a whole and in the Council of Europe. After all, the Council of Europe Monitoring Committee met here in Helsinki a couple of weeks ago in the Small Parliament Auditorium, and a seminar was held in which President Halonen gave a keynote speech. He raised the great concern that is being shared throughout Europe, at least among those who still believe in the rule of law, democracy and human rights. That concern and the concern of everyone else in that Chamber was linked to the fact that the rule of law, democracy and human rights are so widely understood at the moment, for example, in the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, a great deal to be said about the fact that, at the session of the General Assembly in Strasbourg a month ago, the Council of Europe decided, by a vote of 113 to 45, to return Turkey to monitoring. This monitoring system has actually been initiated by President Halonen, which is why it is called the Halonen Order, and I also pointed out that we have had a great deal to do with this European development by working in these international bodies. I would also like to say that Mr Haavisto raised a very important question. That is the situation in the Balkans. Although it is not so much in the news headlines at the moment, the situation there is not clear at all. I myself am the Serbian Country Reporter and will travel there in July for two weeks. In this situation in Kosovo, in the conflict between the Serbs and the Kosovars, there is a great risk that the situation of the reasonably stable situation that it is at present will deteriorate. When such developments are taking place within Europe's borders, apart from Poland, Hungary and Turkey and Russia, along the border, then here as our neighbour and the refugee crisis, which is weighing on us,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u94	Mr. Speaker! Of course, the OSCE, the organisation of peace and human rights and democracy, is very close to us Finns, based on the OSCE 1975 and many of the memories and evidence that result from it. Its strength has certainly been in its broad-based nature, and it is probably one of the few communities that have achieved and can achieve something in managing and perhaps sometimes solving this wretched Ukraine problem. There aren't many of those communities in this world. It has been great that Finnish expertise has been used in this mediation process, which will continue. It's not an easy process. It is exactly as Mrs Kanerva said in her good analysis: we are also living in difficult times because the problems are extremely complex and they accumulate in history, are intertwined and are getting worse. In fact, opening them up requires patience and truly peace - mediation skills, including those of the OSCE. There has been recognition of the activities of the Finnish OSCE delegation, the current delegation and also the delegation from earlier times. It is very easy to agree with this, and we must agree, and I think that we in Parliament should be a little more turbulent and a little more active and active in these matters. I would like to join the man who wants the OSCE Conqueror Ilkka Kanerva to be assigned to the OSCE Secretary-General. That would be a very valuable choice for the OSCE.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u95	Mr President! Election observation is an integral part of the OSCE General Assembly's activities, as has been said many times here. The monitoring reports reveal both the positive development of democracy and the wider problems associated with the concept of democracy. I believe that the role of election delivery as an indicator of democracy has been well-incorporated in the OSCE Member States. Election legislation has been revised and voters have a choice. But the question is: is good electoral law always a guarantee that the rule of law will be implemented? Is the multiparty system a guarantee of alternatives? How do the authorities and the parties in power function? And how do economic factors affect us? With this speech, I would like to say that there are very many open questions that should be addressed. Of course, it is the referendums, as was the case with Turkey last time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u96	Mr President! With a strong speech from an experienced statesman, Mr Kanerva took a stand on the electronic vote, and this is something that has also been somewhat raised in this Chamber in the past. It has been on the agenda for international fora in various elections to an increasing extent. Digitality is an opportunity, it is an opportunity for Finland, but everything that is possible is not always necessary. I do not believe that voting turnout and a reduction in voting turnout are primarily a technical issue, a technical problem that can be solved by digital means. It's about something deeper. I personally have nothing against digital voting, but I believe that there are so many significant risks that are not balanced against the potential gain. The mere suspicion that an outsider has been able to manipulate the outcome of the election is such a big deal that there is uncertainty that the risk is simply not worth taking and should not be taken. Furthermore, the questions that come to light about how to check the identity of a person, whether there is pressure or influence on other people in the background, which does not reflect the view that elections should be held in our view. For example, I now take the secret of the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u97	Mr President! I believe that the electronic vote by Mrs Kanerva and Mr Kiuru on how to deal with it is also suitable for the general meetings of both these organisations. Of course, to some extent it can be seen that there is such a small competition between states as to who is as advanced and most modern in displaying this digitality, and electronic voting is between the symbols of this. I asked that the importance of these two organisations should be created only by the recognition of these organisations, by the authority which they represent on the side of the Council of Europe and, in particular, by the establishment of these basic principles of security on the side of the Eujian side, be so deep that action against them becomes a general moralisation. For the general public, perhaps there is little problem with both organisations that they are not known quite well. The relationship between them and the differences between them is not well known. After all, the general meetings are not terribly operational, but they are mainly intergovernmental activities, between the various authorities. But perhaps we, too, in Finland, should try to clarify their role, particularly as regards the role of these parliamentary assemblies in the activities of these organisations. And the aim must be for the long-term, consistent cooperation of parliamentarians to become so strong that if there is an internal cross-play and pressure on the principles of these bodies to be violated, then there will automatically be a counter-force and a counter-reaction from those involved in this Council of Europe and the OSCE.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u98	Mr President! After all, Finland is known in the world as a very moderate and holistic actor, and this is definitely in our interest. In this context, I would like to mention that Finland will chair the Council of Europe from November 2018 to May 2019. It may then have the opportunity to publicise not only the activities of the Council of Europe but also the activities of the OSCE, because cooperation between these organisations is extremely important. Even before the June session of the General Assembly again has a lot of important issues on the agenda, I would like to point out that there is one day of the full designation of the refugee crisis and the challenges of immigration. Then the report on the integration of our representative, Mrs Huovinen, will also be on the table. He has done a huge job, travelled across Europe, and he has looked into things. Indeed, his report is at the hearing there and has already received a great deal of praise in advance. Finally, President-in-Office of the Council of Europe, this role of the Secretary-General of the OSCE: yes, I believe that I am speaking on behalf of the whole Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe that Mrs Kanerva is definitely the best person for it of all the people in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u100	Mr President! I asked for another floor after Mrs Kanerva explained her own experiences with election observation. However, the report by Mrs Kanerva on these potential problems of electronic voting must be taken very seriously. Last week we had several senators here from the United States. Representative Vanhanen and I may have been involved in the discussion with them. It has to be said that it was quite shocking for me not to say that the strongest country in the world, the United States, has to think about such a thing as whether their electoral systems are vulnerable to external influences. However, when everything is about reliability in a democracy, the belief that a person's vote will have the same weight as someone else, that the system is neither internal nor external, this American concern and the examples of what has happened make you wonder. It is extremely important that our elections are held in an organised manner and that we maintain confidence in the functioning of democracy. This reflection will then have other consequences if it is said that the first is to think about whether there is any point in getting into all the enthusiasm. As Mr Kiuru rightly said here, all that is possible is not necessarily necessary or, I would add, reasonable. That is one thing, but then there is another thing: yes, we have to look at it a little bit, too, with the enthusiasm we are throwing at these rocks of state life. This relates, for example, to the question of whether it makes sense to move the seat of parliamentary elections and to temporarily link them with some other elections, as has now been thought of in the European elections. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u101	Mr President! That part of the election observation, which was raised by Mrs Kanerva and mainly by this electronic vote, was why I wanted to take part myself, when I remember in this Chamber in my time that I was in favour of electronic voting. My approach then was precisely a concern that we had a fall in voting turnout and, in my view, it should be made easier to vote. I personally believe that there are two different things to be distinguished: electronic voting, which has already been tried in Finland, where the voter must go physically and only speed up counting, counting of votes, and then the model where online voting is possible, which Estonia, for example, has used. It is precisely this online vote that involves these possibilities of influence, but also electronic voting on a wider scale. If you think of the concern that it would take us a long time to count our votes, if you now see how, for example, the election result in the last municipal elections in Finland was completed, then that is not our biggest problem. These election results can practically all be confirmed for a hundred per cent vote count already during that evening. The biggest challenge for us is how to get young people to vote. That is why we need to make it easier for us to vote, but now I want to say that, after what has happened in recent years, I myself have come to the conclusion that there is absolutely no reason for us to go into this online vote, at least, but to look elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u102	Mr President! I will bring up three experts, at least my expertise, who I am listening to in these contexts of electronic voting. The first is F-Secure's research director Hyppönen, the second is Jarno Limnéll, who is very public with his cyber expertise, and the third, whose opinions I am used to hearing and through which confidence has grown, is the representative of the plant. They are all very far apart from each other in themselves, but they have one thing in common, and that is that they have an exceptionally strong warning about this switchover system, all of them. And they are, however, people in Finland who are difficult to ignore in the field of expertise when talking about things like this. Election observation is a very broad concept. It should look at the register of voters, election law overall, election funding, understandably the role of the media in all of this. So there are a lot of things in it that make up the whole, not the election itself, and that is why, of course, this process is always very important when it comes to monitoring the elections, how to live with it and how to deal with it. I agree — whether Mr Vanhanen, who spoke about it, was the difference between parliamentary action and intergovernmental action. This observation is entirely correct and justified; it is, of course, the case. But the effectiveness of parliamentary work will be increased if the agenda for its work is the same as the handling of the issues that the intergovernmental forum is going through at any given time. The parliamentary side cannot be just a draiver, the driver's presence, but it can give a considerable amount of substance to the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u103	Mr President! The report by the Finnish delegation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the activities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in 2016 is indeed a valuable document, and although someone may be wondering if it is an important paper, I think it is an extremely important paper. I remember when, in 1975, there was an OSCE summit on the other side of the Mannerheimites, where world leaders were gathered. Who would have guessed the consequences of that meeting and what it led to? What was the important factor in that? Of course, it was important to bring nations together in a peaceful sense and to conclude agreements in order to promote peace and the interaction between peoples that this parliamentary delegation is currently doing on behalf of Finland. I am very pleased that the Finns in this delegation are in very visible roles, as Mrs Kanerva has done for her part. Let us hope that, in these circumstances, Finns will be given more and more prominence, because the meetings in which parliamentarians from different countries meet, discuss with each other and exchange opinions will certainly promote democracy and certainly promote transparency, which, after all, will break down the stuffy walls that still exist in some countries on this continent, practices that do not fit into democracy, and of course must always be resisted. Such parliamentary general meetings and the exchange of views there and the publicity that this actor in each country will always have in due course are extremely valuable, because they specifically reject the possibility of war, the possibility of crises and the fact that human dignity will always be maintained. In a democratic system, it is important to have transparency, free information and the media free to act in such a way that people have the opportunity to form their own opinions on the basis of free press and free media reporting events as they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u104	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u105	Mr President! So, more familiarly speaking, this is a Yle law, and, as is customary, in accordance with Finnish practice, this has also been prepared in parliamentary terms, through a parliamentary group. In the course of the committee's debate, we said that the work of this parliamentary group and the pursuit of consensus were a matter of great importance for the operation of the YLE. So there is a parliamentary group behind this, which has been unanimous, and this report is also unanimous, as has been the case. In accordance with its role, the Committee has often dealt with the issue of universal service and, on several occasions, on several occasions, it has considered the role of universal service to be important in this society. Among other things, the report states: "The Committee considers the importance of YLE for fair information, freedom of expression and support for democracy to be central and reiterates its statement in its previous reports." In other words, these have been taken on several occasions along the way, and these have been regarded as important. There is more to the guidelines of this parliamentary group than this strengthening the role of the Governing Board. The committee considers these to be good, for example, that the division of labour is now clear in itself, that it is guided by the Governing Board, and that it naturally supervises the functioning of the Governing Board and that technical control is then carried out by the FICORA. Indeed, this unity is the cornerstone of what has been observed all along. And when the debate was directed through this post-Parliamentary debate towards upholding and emphasising independence, we did say that the greater importance and the greater importance of this guarantee of independence is that they are prepared parliamentaryly and they are unanimous than the fact that different patterns are written in the law. In other words, unanimity is the main cornerstone of independence as a whole, and this is what has been said in the discussions and in the consultations with experts. The second point that has been addressed in this report is that, in line with the Committee's earlier views, Yle should increase the so-called indie purchases, i.e. external independent producers. According to this proposal, these purchases should be increased by between 30% and 35% by 2022. In this context, the qualitative criteria for their purchased programmes, although of course also for Yle's own programmes, should be taken into account, and the role of the subscriber is also emphasised in the context of these programme procurements. So Yle is responsible for the whole production, and subscriber responsibility is important. Regional action is mentioned separately, as has often been emphasised — this is what we are doing in this report. Finally, I would like to say that the parliamentary group did a good job. Its report is unanimous and so is this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u106	Mr President! It is a pleasure to note that the Committee on Transport and Communications has been able to unanimously present this bill for adoption. As Mr Jalonen said here, it is based on the work of the parliamentary working group — a rather long, challenging work — which was completed a year ago in June on this subject. The background to that task force was that: The Sipilä Government had taken decisions on YLE in the course of the Government negotiations, contrary to the principle of the management of YLE's affairs since 1948, since legislation called Lex Jahvet. It was then accepted that the principle that YLE operates under the control of Parliament and that decisions on it are taken by parliament to prevent the significant media power of YLE from being used for the benefit of the government or any government party or any party. With this long tradition of parliamentary handling, it has been sought to ensure the reliability of the YLE. That deviation from this rule from the Sipilä Government was regrettable, because when the government decided to intervene in the financing of YLE, there was, of course, uncertainty as to whether YLE could engage in independent journalism without penalising critical comments or news reports in the form of funding. This is a blackmail screw that has been used around the world against national radio companies, but in countries that we do not want to identify with in any way. I do not want to believe that this was the case in Finland, but in any case this transparency of funding caused uncertainty, and from this point of view it was good that this working group returned to the path of parliamentary preparation. I would ask once again to thank the current Vice-President, who was involved in the work, particularly Mr Sato, who did an excellent job so that that working group could reach a unanimous vote despite the rather distant starting points. When the work of the Satonen working group was carried out, the representatives of the government parties, and perhaps they themselves, said that there has been a mistake in the start-up of the government and that it is now generally understood that there is a need to return to these principles of the 48th anniversary of Lex Jahvet and that decisions are taken so that all parties represented in Parliament can be present at the same time and thus ensure that the independence of the Finnish Broadcasting Company has continued to be safeguarded. This independence is now the key word for reliable, free and successful communication. Since the completion of this working party's proposal, this strategy for the YLE and its adoption by the Governing Board has been discussed to some extent, and scientists in the field have also taken part in this debate, albeit somewhat late in life — that is, about nine months after this proposal was submitted, a new debate arose on perhaps slightly unsuccessful political speeches which, in a sense, questioned why this change is being made. There was, therefore, concern about whether this is intended to interfere with the journalism of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. As the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications, chaired by Mr Läälose, rightly states, there was no such purpose in the group. In other words, the starting point was that the Board of Directors can represent the owner and decide on the major lines of the broadcasting activities, but does not interfere with journalism, and it is good that the committee has included in its report this idea that, when the strategy is adopted, it is not intended to interfere with journalistic solutions or journalistic lines. After all, the previous law stated that the Board of Directors will decide on significant changes in the operation of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and of course this strategy now represents the same thinking that was in the previous law. I personally feel that the fact that this strategic position is taken by the Governing Board is justifiable. Of course, now there will be a lot of expectations for the new Governing Board, and it will have to do its work very coolly, and when this is decided on by the Governing Board for the first time, it will be significant that it will be done in such a way that it will provide a firm, anchored basis for future procedures. This is important that YLEs can be confident that they will be able to do their work freely and that this line of journalism will not be interfered with from the outside. It is a different matter that, of course, we must also be able to evaluate and evaluate the activities of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and it must also be allowed to do so, but it is important that the Governing Board does not undertake this work, as does the Yle Government. This is therefore one aspect of this independence. I have to return to this question of how this parliamentary preparation is going. I myself assumed that the discussion in the work of the Satonen Group has been an atmosphere-clearing and improving process and that there is a genuine commitment to this joint preparation. However, this issue was again referred to in the spending limits debate this year, and the government parties had suddenly decided to reorganise the public service tax. This decision was taken unilaterally again without all the parliamentary parties being aware of it. Even today, it is not known what entity has been regarded as part of the broadcasting charges, what else has been agreed in the same context, who has received and who has given and what pawn this Yle payment has been in this context. It is therefore a bad practice from a principle point of view, and let us return to what the Sipilä Government started in the summer of 2015. I have not heard any explanation as to why this was taken away from this agreed parliamentary route and again taken to the unilateral decision-making of the government parties. This is also problematic from the point of view that the work of the Satonen Group on the financing and financing needs of the Finnish Broadcasting Company was agreed for the years 17 and 18 but that the year 19 remained open. From that YLE index for 2019, which determines the funding received by YLE, it was agreed that it will be evaluated in autumn 2018, taking into account, among other things, the development of the economic situation. Well, it is now quite difficult to think that the Yle-tax could be resolved without knowing how much money it is going to raise, and that is why we have argued that if we want to talk about payments, it can happen in a perfectly normal, parliamentary way, but that its condition is that this fate of the 2019 Yle-index is resolved in the same context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u111	Mr President! To begin with, this report is important and the rapporteur's speech was important precisely because it highlighted this parliamentaryism and consensus and their importance. I fully agree with those words. If we start with this report and this proposal, then what is very important overall is that this government proposal is a continuum and it is based on the ideas of this Parliament working party in Satose. So far, everything has gone well and very successfully in this regard. It is important to strengthen this strategic direction, the role of the Management Board, but it is also good that the report stresses that this guidance is not intended to extend explicitly to journalistic content. It is true what Mr Heinäluoma said in his previous speech that the debate in public sometimes went wrong in this regard because of the failure of the exits. It is therefore important that this independence should also be emphasised in this committee's report. I, too, have had a great deal of concern about what unfortunately became apparent in the previous speech that, although it seems now and again from the government's side that this principle of parliamentaryism is being understood, these measures during this period have not always seemed to have been internalised. We have been concerned here several times over the last couple of years about this. It started bad two years ago. Fortunately, the situation was saved by this working group that did good work in Satose, but nevertheless there has been a stumbling block. And once again, it is worth underlining what time and again I too have said in this Chamber that it must be so that YLE is independent. Yle is the radio of the people, the radio of the Parliament, not the radio of the government. And it's a really long tradition all the way from Lex Yahweh, as we just heard. There is, of course, the next question we are asking today, namely that if Yle is independent and should be independent, it is quite reasonable that a certain continuum and certainty about the funding of Yle should be and be agreed on by Parliament. That is why the situation we have just described is confusing, to say the least. It's confusing, to say the least. It was very strange that the government, in its spending limits, once again unilaterally went off to agree with itself on this step-up of the Yle-Tax. It was good and necessary for us to then return to parliamentaryism and again set up this working group. Of course, it gave us hope that now we are back on the right track. But, as Mr Heinäluoma said earlier, it is quite reasonable and quite reasonable that, if we then start to discuss the content of this general tax and its differentiation, then at the same time the future financing of Yle will also be decided. And as it turned out, it is still open for 2019. What really sad was that this happened was that, when this reasonable proposal to agree on all these matters together in Parliament, unanimously here and now, it was not good enough, now we are in such a wonderful state that it is alive. I am absolutely surprised to learn that the next step is now that the government parties are required to act in this parliamentary group so that in less than 24 hours we start to define positions only now on this one issue, that is to say, this separation. This simply cannot be true. This cannot be true, and I now hope that, with the opportunity to speak this open in this Chamber today, we will have some kind of response to this, which is what it is all about. It is good and wise that, if we look at it together, we can step up this Yle-tax, but, of course, there must also be certainty about funding. President! All in all, I would also like to highlight the fact that it is very important that we have quality, that we have independence, that we have a free and pluralist media field throughout. It is important that we have a high-quality Yle — especially as the Yle of the people, not as the radio of the government — and it is also important that we can take care of the conditions, the operating environment and the operating conditions of commercial media. In that respect, we also need more action overall. It was important that, as a continuation of its Yle Group, this working group was set up, which then reflected on the future of commercial media, the security of its news activities, and it was good that this working group also provided additional support there. And now, of course, we come to the question of the fact that in the amending budget this support has been allocated in a different amount than what this working group has proposed, that is, much less. This is the next question I would like to discuss out loud. We also have other important reforms that we Social Democrats, for example, have wanted, as this digital alvi — now possible — and such things. All in all, I would like to underline that we need extensive measures to ensure a wide, good, independent, high-quality media field in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a good debate here on this dossier, which is now mainly concerned with strengthening the role and role of the Board of Directors, but also with the wider coverage of YLE. My speech may be on the agenda. A little bit more than that. Yle's independence has been on people's lips in many ways over the past six months or even a year, and one must hope that confidence in YLE will remain strong in the future and, for example, that speeches such as the resignation of the Council of Public Word will no longer be heard from the YLE, but will be respected and respected by the common media's own body, which oversees the media in its entirety, as the rest of the media respects it. In my view, the question of independence also has to do with whether someone has to pay Yle to get something to show on television. Lahti’s MM skiing was televised on YLE, and Helsingin Sanomat reported that the Finnish Ski Federation had to pay direct compensation and production support to YLE of EUR 1.5 million. The size of the amount has also been the subject of a different discussion by Yle's actors in Twitter discussions. The sums of the ski union have been different from those of Yle Sports, but everyone has admitted that money has moved around. You may ask whether it is in the spirit of Yle that paying makes certain things appear on Yle's channels. If, then, it has been simply that sports competitions have been televised elsewhere, I do not quite understand that it is up to us, the Ski Federation, to pay the Finnish Broadcasting Company for making its own programme offer. The Government Decree states that: The Nordic Ski Championships organised by the International Ski Association are among the species to be displayed on free-of-charge channels. I personally have not understood that this means that someone else is going to pay for it. I believe that this independence needs to be clarified, that there are other programmes in sport that use money to make them appear on the YLE channels. There has been a debate on the subject of VAT and the Yle index. I believe that the solution has been the right one at the time that, when everything has been saved, the Finnish Broadcasting Company has not received any more either. On the other hand, it has not been cut, but the upper index has been frozen. I believe that this has been the right solution, and it is hoped that it will be a parliamentary solution to what will be done in 2019. On the other hand, I am not in favour of a model that significantly reduces the base for the levy on Yle-Tax. I have not been a great lover of Yle-Tax because there is no possibility for viewers or users to react in any way to whether Yle's services are being used, but I think that too is an essential part of the fact that, when the Yle-Tax is being paid so to speak, so this is a so-called compulsory tax, it is of the utmost importance that responsibility be shared. In that case, I do not see any significant potential, in my view — this is my personal opinion — for increasing the fees for, for example, certain people, individual people, but that ceiling has certainly come to this extent and those increases will then come to all people. That is another thing if it is possible to re-examine Yle's tasks, the role of the public service and everything that money is spent on, and if, for example, there is the possibility of making payments to more people on low incomes, I think that is okay. But I myself am not in favour of Yle paying an even smaller part of the so-called compulsory tax, but, indeed, when it comes to compulsory taxation, it must be divided on a very broad basis. If I have understood correctly, then at the time when the decision was reached on the Yle-Tax and it was decided to introduce this model, then as one of the key principles, the basic principle was that the basis for payment is broad and quite reasonable for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! There was a lot of talk here about the representative of the Finns, Turunen, and that is why I took the floor when he himself was in some way unable to perform other duties, and I wanted to bring a slightly different perspective to this. I was reading the interview he gave in the media at the beginning of June for the Finnish News. He as chairman of the group tells us that this group, which he led, did not reach agreement in his view as to what was the assignment. In the view of Mr Turunen, the mandate was not so extensive as to allow for consideration of this indexation issue, but rather the aim being to look at this issue of general taxation. Here Congressman Heinäluoma asked a few questions about why the government goes on to do things like this. I do not take a position on how it should have been done, but the underlying idea is that those on low incomes would receive a higher discount on Yle-Tax, i.e. that income differentials would be reduced and then the higher incomes would have paid more. You asked me about this. At least this is how I, as a member of the Finnish Parliament, have understood that we still have people whose only tax is this Yle-tax, and it would have been desirable that you can earn 1000 euros in your work. This is the explanation I have received, and I think it is a great idea that we should get more to this increase in inequality and income inequality — or the difference. I think that is the argument we were talking about here. I therefore understand from Mr Turuse's comments that this would have been the reason why we could not move forward when unanimity is needed. Indeed, according to this information in the media, he felt that the assignment was not so extensive that it could have been done. I cannot take a position on this e-mail issue and I do not want to judge it. I am not a member of that group. But as far as that independence is concerned, I would like to say that it is very important in our society for those actors whose activities are required to be independent. It concerns us, prosecutors, courts, law enforcement and the media. The media play an important role in monitoring our independence. We have to make binding declarations, and we are being monitored in our activities, and it is very good that it is as transparent as possible. But perhaps I slightly disagree that in some speeches it seems as if the Finnish Broadcasting Company is an institution whose funding cannot be tampered with at all without interfering with its independence. It is good for us to remember over the past several years the state administration's efficiency programmes, which have concerned independent agencies and, in particular, the courts. It has also been thought of where there is a limit to the independence of the Court of Justice, if you look at that action. I can't quite see why Yle would be such an institution where nothing could be rationalized or made more effective. I don't know if you meant this in your speeches, but there was a feeling that it was such a monument that you should not touch. However, as Mrs Heinonen said in her speech, we have to share this scarcity. Of course, all organisations can be seen, for example, to see if there could be only one in any programme production, if there are three announcers. These types of issues can be considered quite well without jeopardising independence, which in itself is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u114	Mr President! I have to continue this debate because I think that this cannot be allowed to go through with silence. These are big things, and the very big thing is that we should do as we agree. All business in such a society as Finland is based on trust and that once something has been agreed, then all parties will act accordingly. And this belief that what has been agreed will be done in the agreed way is repeatedly undermined by the management of this issue of Broadcasting. Let me take one more example of these problems: that representative in the satose working group also agreed that if the funding of YLE — if the funding of YLE is addressed — or decisions are taken on the financing of YLE, the preparation will be for the opinion of the YLE Board — the opinion of the YLE Board will be requested. So now the spending limits debate has again taken decisions on the financing of Yle, and I will ask whether the Yle Board has been asked to give its opinion in accordance with the agreement of all eight parties just a moment ago. And I dare say that such a request has not been sent to the Board of Governors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. This is not going to be anything, ladies and gentlemen. That first eight parties, representatives of the parliamentary groups, after a long twist, agreed on how things were to be done, and everyone swears that this was a mistake and will not happen again in the way that government parties take decisions among themselves on the YLE. And in a little while, we'll be back. Prior to that, we already had a problem that this agreed separation did not take place in autumn 2016. Well, it has now taken place in 2017, i.e. the operations of YLE are no longer counted as part of the state framework, which would have contributed to the weakening of the independence of YLE when the solutions in YLE — whether plus or minus — would have had a direct impact on what money decisions the government could otherwise take. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, seriously: is it worth sitting in such working groups if the solutions made there are not taken seriously or committed or if no one reads them? Or if you've read, forget it. This is not the parliamentaryism that I personally respect and which I am committed to. If anything is agreed, I think we should go. And it should apply to all those who are involved in this. From the point of view of the public radio, this issue of funding is very important. Knowing in advance both the principles and the practices of funding, it informs both the management and journalists of the YLE that this matter is in order, and there is no uncertainty that might then be used as a screw in the journalistic solutions of YLE. I would also like to return to the fact that we had an unprecedented incident in autumn 2015, which has never been the case in the history of today's YLE, that the Prime Minister wanted to come directly to YLE to express his views on the subject — this forced-law debate — which was completely controversial both politically and also with the labour market, at the same time as Yle's funding is open. Such practices are mainly used in the countries of Eastern Central Europe, which we do not consider to be very great models for democracy. These must be spoken of because they would not be silenced and would not become a common feature. In Finland, fortunately, it has been a practice over the years to enjoy the government in turn, I suppose you can say, all the parties involved here — not only those present — but also those who are also able to enjoy the opposition. I dare even now to suspect that this government as a whole will not continue after the next elections, so that some parties will be put to the opposition, and I assume that, when they are in the opposition, they will become interested in the equal treatment of matters and will be interested in the fact that the public radio will not be harassed on screens where the government is trying to use it politically or there will be suspicion that the government will try to exploit the public radio politically. So now we have to talk about this when it doesn't work out once after, even though it's agreed, it just opens up all the time. Then in relation to parliamentary preparation: I don't know any example of any parliamentary working group that when the work would have been considered finished on the President's proposal and then it will be published, then it will happen like this resurrection, that suddenly this will rise again and it will be stated that well we have here such a proposal and a few hours of time and now you say yes or no. Well, of course, if you look at this timing, then we do not know what this framework relates to, what trade has been made there, but this deadline does happen in a funny way with a party meeting of the Government Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u117	Mr President! It is indeed easy to agree with this appeal, which Mr Heinäluoma has just made here. However, parliamentary groups have been found in different parties, which have wisely seen this responsibility together, mutual trust and progressed together in agreement on a parliamentary basis. I am completely confused about this situation, which is back here today in front of us. I was already confused — I am not a member of the working group — when I suddenly began to read the news about the interruption of the work of this group and probably gave some false testimony, which was actually what it was about, and now there are these resurrections and how it is to be, indeed, unfortunately just as a party is approaching a party meeting. So with a big, serious thing, this kind of toy that's going on here, it feels really bad. And in the same way, Mr President, I could say that this kind of game is not simply a game that one day there will be a different view and another. This is a big deal, and this is where this coherent line is going to hold. President! I now appeal to the members of the government parties in this Chamber to whistle this game out and return to the normal order of business. Such a thing is certainly no credit to all of this. We have to raise this up here, and we have to talk about it, and I hope that this debate is being followed up in some way in public, so that there will be no surprises and strange interpretations of what is happening here all in all. This is a much bigger step in this matter than I would have imagined a moment ago, but now here we are, all in all, facing this truth. President! I think I will continue this debate, but I will now allow the representatives of the government parties to respond to this, because I see that many speakers have been asked to speak. I hope that these will be explicitly mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u118	Mr President! To begin with, a comment as chairman of the committee: This independence, when discussed, was confirmed in the expert consultation by the committee that the independence of Yle has been so obvious that it has not even had to be recorded in anything, because everyone understands its importance. I would like to reiterate that the most important thing about the independence of Yle is that matters are dealt with in parliamentary terms and that they are unanimous. From now on, Congressman Jalonen will speak: It is true that in the spending limits debate, and in the past even in the context of index freezing, the government saw the need to balance the purchasing power of households and to balance them so that the less well-off in society have more purchasing power and better financial control over their lives. For this reason, in the spending limits debate, the government stated that this internal balancing of the Yle-tax, in a way progressive, needs to be changed. Now I am a little surprised at what Mr Heinäluoma has said when it comes to this particular progressiveness of Yle-Tax, namely that Yle-Tax is not collected from the poorer people and that a richer section of the population is paying more — that is to say, progressiveness is being increased. The financing of Yle, I repeat, is not going to be interfered with. It is true that, if the general financing were to be intervened, it would then be necessary, as agreed, to request an opinion from the general board of directors of Yle. But now we were not dealing with the financing of Yle, just the progressive nature of the tax and the fact that the poor are not being paid and this is compensated for by the fact that the well-off are paying. This sounds as if the other side of the hall, shouting for joy, would accept this. The parliamentary group was convened in accordance with principles, because I believe that the work of Yle should be dealt with in a parliamentary and unanimous manner. The mandate was merely, and only, the way in which the progressive nature of the Yle-Tax was changed — i.e. not the financing. For some strange reason, this was not good enough for one party. One party was not satisfied with facilitating the situation of the less-incomed section of the population. Well, I know Mr Turunen well, and he has this kind of fairness in the decision-making process, and I think it is all right that he is still trying to gather this parliamentary group in order to make this contribution fairer in the situation in which society is now. This issue was also referred to, i.e. that 2019 would be open: it is not open. The freezing of the index is unless it is decided unanimously to open.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u121	Mr President! It is worth saying that, when I was a member of the working group that has already finished this work — or perhaps I am still a member of this working group, I do not quite know how it is now — I said clearly there that this facilitation of low-income payments, the High-Tax, is a good idea and is acceptable, and I, together with Mrs Kiuru, made a statement on this issue, which also stated our position in writing. So, yes, in this respect, the Yle-Tax can be phased out in a way that favours the low-income. But our condition was that we also have to agree on this year 2019, because the decision of the Satonen Group was that in autumn 2018 the possibilities for implementing the 2019 index increase were assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u122	Mr President! I mean, I think it's creepy right now. The more you listen to this debate, the more I become concerned about this state of affairs. Even here, the chairman of the committee,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u125	Once again, I would like to respond to Mr Meri and Mr Jalonen, and since the representatives here have all asked for the floor, then it is appropriate to take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u126	Mr President! Now I'm a little surprised about this conversation. First of all, there's been some kind of e-mail that none of us have ever seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u129	I would also like to give Mr Heinäluoma a reply to this, and then Mr Jalonen, the chairman of the committee, whose speech this debate has just begun.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u130	Mr President! It is not the case that if there is parliamentary work and it is agreed that all matters will be agreed together, then the government parties will issue a mandate and say that you will only do this. Of course, it means that everyone brings their own views, and we have. This removal of the uncertainty surrounding the financing of Yle is an important issue. If you agree on changes to Yle-Tax and hence to the funding coming to Yle-Tax for a longer period of time, you must agree on this fate of the 2019 Yle-index. It is logical that you need to know how much money is needed for Yle in 2019. Otherwise, as far as this situation is concerned, this is quite clear. We are prepared to continue this work of the working group, but, today, apparently no member of the working group knows whether or not it still exists, because the Presidency has declared that it has finished its work and then an e-mail says that the positions must be announced by e-mail — not that the group is meeting what the opposition has wanted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u131	Mr President! I asked for an answer to this point so that no one will have the wrong impression of the minutes. People will then be able to see this when they review history. Mr Viitanen's speech may now give the impression that I was chairman of the committee during the final part of my speech. I encourage you to listen to the speeches here in the Chamber. I mentioned and stressed in particular that from now on Mr Jalonen will speak. I hope that you will not make such speeches here in the Chamber, which may give a false impression.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u134	Mr President! The changes agreed by the Parliament working group in Satose, which concluded its work a year ago, are now being put into law, and as one important change to this law, I would like to highlight the preservation of this Finnish cultural heritage. It is an important and important new task that is now being played by the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and for that thank you. A lot has been said today about this change in the profile of Yle-Tax, which, in accordance with the decision of the spending limits committee, would have completely exempted hundreds of thousands of Finns from Yle-Tax, virtually everyone who earns less than EUR 1000 a month. However, for some reason, this reduction in the taxation of low-income earners through the reduction of VAT was not appropriate for the social democrats, even though I believe it had gone to all other parliamentary parties and it has increased the purchasing power of those on low incomes. In general, the Social Democrats are in favour of progressive taxation, but apparently not this time with regard to the change in general taxation. The reason for this remains for everyone to judge and wonder. This change in the profile of Yle tax has nothing to do with Yle's total funding. This overall funding can and certainly should be agreed on separately in Parliament, as has been the case, but that is next year's issue. It does not need to be decided this year. It would have been possible to calculate the VAT on all income categories if the Parliament working group in Satose had decided to reduce the funding of YLE. This was not the case a year ago, so in my view, at least in this situation, this decision by the spending limits committee to exempt those with lower incomes from the Yle-Tax is worthy of implementation. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that I am not a friend of conspiracy theories,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u135	Mr President! Just a moment ago, Mr Heinäluoma spoke of a statement tabled by the Social Democrats in the work of this working group, and it specifically said that this will happen to the Social Democrats that progress will be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u140	Mr President! However, the economic direction has now changed, and we have probably said hundreds of times here that the number of people employed has increased well. Last season, when it was your goal to get the economy in order, the 100,000 more unemployed came. [Quick Five] But now those with low incomes will have to wait because the SDP believes that it wants to link Yle's funding to this. For example, Mr Savio and Mr Jalonen said that this funding base will not change anything and Yle is getting the same amount for its euro. The intention was to divide taxpayers more fairly. In other words, people with low incomes will now have to wait, even though you basically agree to this, but when you want to link other things to this that do not need to be resolved now. It does not make their daily lives happy that you want to discuss things that are not actual now. That's where they're waiting. At this point, there was talk that it's not that big a deal. You don't think so? Yes, I think that every euro is important for the low-income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u141	Mr President! Now may not be the time for a broader economic debate, but now that Mr Viitanen has taken some of this,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u144	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, once again Mr Jalonen, is speaking for the sake of clarity. — The activities of Yle will therefore be dealt with in a parliamentary and unanimous manner. Independence is also emphasised by the fact that matters are decided over the term of government, which underlines that this is indeed parliamentary work. You have just told us that this change in progression will happen to you, and in the same breath you have told us that if financial changes are also made to the Yle index.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u147	President! I do not know how to say this nicely, but I think that this debate on this point is beginning to be undervalued. In my view, both Mr Jalo and the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalo, are at least linked by the fact that the truth must remain. It connects them both.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u152	Mr President! Parliamentaryism is also an extremely important issue for Mr Jalos, and I fully agree with Mr Viitane that in this Chamber we should remain in the truth and only in the truth — absolutely the same — and that applies to all of us. Then I urge you to look at the minutes of what Mr Heinäluoma said about this statement or statement — whatever it is, I have not seen these things — but, in reference to what Mr Heinäluoma said, this progressive approach would have been appropriate if Yle's funding were changed. So I have remained in the truth. Parliamentaryism is of the utmost importance. In this hall, we must remain in the truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u153	Mr President! I have taken the floor because I find it somewhat contradictory that Mr Viitanen is very appealing here in the Chamber that the debate should be conducted properly and, in fact, when I listen to his adjectives and descriptions of the Finns, it does not sound very valuable to me, and that is not why I am going to repeat them here. That you could always think for yourself. It reminds me that we might want to get rid of what we are discussing here. We discussed that working group. What was its mandate, why it was done, which is why we wanted those with low incomes to receive additional relief. In the past, the government has already granted discounts to people with low incomes. More than 100,000 people are waiting for this. We've had an increase in the guaranteed pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u156	Mr President! I would like to pick up on this speech by Mrs Mere. Mr Viitanen, as an experienced parliamentarian, has learned to use very colorful rhetoric. Among other things, he said something about how this government, and apparently it is the Finns of Peru, has clicked on the spine of the exploiter to whip the poor, so it somehow went.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u159	Mr President! Question: Who gives a mandate to the group, what are the government parties referring to? It is given unilaterally by the government when it should be parliamentaryly agreed. That's a pretty big question. What's on the table now? That's a pretty big question. Secondly, as regards this funding for Yle: As has just been read here, the quotes on what the Yle parliamentary working group has agreed on together are an estimate of the possibility of an index increase in 2019. I would remind you that this index increase is precisely what the law says, and the exception has been that these indices have now been frozen as a result of this parliamentary agreement. That is not what we wanted, but as part of the whole and the compromise, the Social Democrats are involved in this. But it is a little difficult to be involved in everything that has been agreed together, when the government is constantly moving on to those side paths and going ahead and playing a very strange game in my opinion, and that is why, Mr President, once again I say that it is a big one, a serious one and a very fundamental one. When I sometimes rejoiced at the fact that this Parliament working group in Satose, which did good work, in a way stabilized and saved Yle funding in the future, and I thought that this would end up in history, that sometimes, after decades of reviewing Yle's history, these are historic moments, it would certainly seem a little sad if, for example, the Minutes of this sitting were read then and thought about how such an argument here, for example, in the previous speech, the accusation of social democrats and all these, relates to this big picture of Yle, its importance to the Finnish people as a civilist and a basic basis for equality. Many have said that primary school, libraries and [The President knocks ] President! Why do we need Yle to work in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u165	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 5/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u166	Mr President! There's an amendment to the law on high school in the Parliament. This is a small part of the law on upper secondary school, and I personally hope that this larger reform of the law on secondary school will now move forward with determination. It is time for us to update our high school more strongly towards the 2020s. That would mean that we would strengthen its educational significance, but also that it would open up more and more young people to further studies so that they would no longer have to sacrifice hundreds or even thousands of euros through various training courses and then, if you failed, you would not be able to do it again. So high school has to be more of a key and a gateway to further studies. The second point that I would like to raise in this discussion of the High School Act is the running-out costs of high school all the time. It is extremely worrying that we, for example, have the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare to organise collections in order to ensure equal opportunities in secondary education. We have situations where we no longer have the opportunity to go on studying after comprehensive school, because we in upper secondary school have happened so that books cost around EUR 2000, a computer that is now mandatory for 2019 with electronic writings, about EUR 300, other material at least EUR 200, a degree if you write five subjects, EUR 168, i.e. over EUR 2600 plus travels and all the other costs. Then you can ask whether all Finns have the option of free upper secondary school anymore, what we read in the law in the second paragraph. I personally hope that this message, which is now
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u167	Mr President! Of this, it is easy to agree with the previous speaker, Mr Heinonen, that it is a real problem, that the cost of going to high school in many ways is very heavy for many low-income people. That is why it is worth mentioning and putting this matter on the table here too. President! In the debate on this issue, when we were here, we stressed the importance of high school education, and good speeches were made about it. Similarly, President-in-Office, we have come to a general discussion on equality in education in this context, and I would like to return to it so much that, of course, when we talk about equality in education, these recent costs related to upper secondary schools are part of it, but of course also include the large savings in education that the government has made in general during this term of government. They're a big, big mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u170	Mr President! This was now a little similar to the famous Rinte May Day speech, where he insisted on the government’s resignation in the context of a recent economic shift. Not much more foolish talk could have been heard than in the situation when the economic downturn that has been going on for almost 10 years has been reversed, all the hands show up, now we even passed through Sweden's GDP growth. In that situation, the chairman of the largest opposition party in his May Day speech demands a resignation from the government. This is where Mr Viitanen said that the direction is wrong. Now that money was specifically added to education in the final decision made by the government, is it not the right direction? So now the difficult savings have been made and it has been possible to invest a little bit more there, and at the same time big reforms are being made, of which now the vocational school reform is being discussed in Parliament. We've been waiting a long time for that, too. But the direction is right when you get back to the road where you no longer have to cut and you can bet. It is true that we have not even been able to correct the cuts which, Mr Viitanen, while you are on the board,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u173	Mr President! As far as education is concerned, I think that this government is heading in the direction of the walls. Let's just say it straight and put the cat on the table: it's against the walls.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u180	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is now a draft amendment to the law on secondary school, and if that is the case, then the context would be happy to remain in: the law on upper secondary school, not the cuts in vocational education and not the May Day speeches by President Rinte, either. I hope that we will stick to what is at the heart of the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u181	Mr President! I always follow the President's instructions, and so do I this time. I welcome the fact that high school is now being reformed. And that is where I raised the concerns I have about high school education and then the need for reform. One of the things we need to invest in is our diminishing choice of languages, that is, the interest of young people in different languages. I also welcome the fact that these working groups, which have now been presented for the reform of high school, also have incentives to make young people increasingly stronger and more diverse in their own language range. This proposal, which is now under discussion, is about training leading to an international qualification, which would be entitled to organise this training as an on-demand training for citizens of the European Union and countries outside the European Economic Area. This change would not allow tuition fees to be charged to students, but the costs of education would be borne by the subscriber. This is one good example of our high-quality, good educational know-how and school establishment being appreciated around the world. They're still gonna look at it. I personally hope that we will take care of this crown jewel so that our young people will still be the most competent people in the world in the future, because we will not be able to compete, but that every young person will have access to high school, for example, regardless of family background and income background, we will be able to compete in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u182	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 7/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u183	Mr President! After all, this was about these changes in the situation in Åland, which are mainly of a technical nature and are related to previous decision-making. This is a question of housing aid overall, and that is why I would like to say here, Mr President, that a new study has recently appeared which showed that, in fact, housing subsidies do not have as much effect on the level of rent as is generally thought. And that is why I am taking this opportunity to say to the government that it was wrong that this spending limits debate now led to cuts in housing allowance. It doesn't lower rents. The problem is that there are not enough of those affordable rental dwellings. That is why I hope, President, that the government will reconsider this poor decision to cut, which, indeed, will make the situation of the most vulnerable once again more difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you are cutting off these low incomes, and then there are Band-Aids trying to patch up here. This is not the way it should be, Mr President. I hope that this planned housing allowance operation will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u184	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u185	Mr President! In March this year, a public debate was held in connection with the judgment of a 22-year-old person who had had sexual intercourse with a 10-year-old child by the Pirkanmaa District Court that this child’s consent was given meaning. In this case, the information is very limited because the plaintiff is a minor, so my information is based on public matters and on the fact that I have checked that the matter is pending at the Turku Court of Appeal, but I do not know when it will be handled or anything more than the public has had on this judgment. However, the situation is that, in principle, the perpetrator of sexual abuse against young children should always be convicted of aggravated rape and not only of gross sexual abuse of the child. This is due to the fact that the minimum limit of imprisonment for aggravated rape is more severe, i.e. at least 2 years in prison, whereas it is 1 year in serious sexual abuse of a child. In this situation, the offender was therefore sentenced to 3 years in prison for aggravated sexual abuse of the child, not for rape, even though the prosecutor had also claimed punishment for aggravated rape. But the District Court dismissed the charge. This was due to the fact that the sign of rape was not considered to have been fulfilled, so it was also not possible to condemn the more serious form of act, that is, aggravated rape. And according to public information, the district court had given weight to the fact that this sexual connection had not been shown to have taken place contrary to the will of the child — so we are talking about a 10-year-old. According to public information, this was also supported by the findings of the victim’s friends and the messages and reports sent by the victim to his friend and, according to the District Court, did not support the fact that sexual intercourse was done by force, using violence, as required by the code. In my opinion, the law should definitely be such that having sexual intercourse with a 10-year-old always, in principle, fills the mark of gross rape. The opportunities for young children to express their own will are limited and therefore their consent should not be given too much importance. It is actually wrong that the legal system knows many different age limits, after which the child's positions are taken into account in decision-making on him or her, but a very young child could agree to a sexual relationship with an adult. Consider, for example, the process of child protection: there the age limit is 12 — it is considered that at that stage it is often mature to make decisions, although younger ones can also be heard. But a 10-year-old person could agree to sexual intercourse. As regards consent in these rape offences and sexual abuse offences, the criminal law’s work states that the consent provider must be consentable, i.e. understand the meaning and content of consent, taking into account his or her age and health. The legal situation in this area is not clear and now needs to be clarified. Therefore, Article 1(2) of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code, which deals with the basic description of rape, should be supplemented by an increase in age. In certain cases, then, rape must be judged solely on the grounds that the victim is too young and cannot be considered capable of giving consent to sexual intercourse. The problem, then, is that, as I mentioned earlier, if the basic definition of rape is not fulfilled, then, of course, it will not be possible to apply a serious form of act, and that is why we will have to make a specific change to the description of rape. Matti Tolvanen, a professor of criminal and procedural law at the University of Eastern Finland, has also stated that it sounds very strange that someone can have sexual intercourse with a 10-year-old child without committing rape. He says that the law is based on the fact that a child cannot consent to sexual intercourse. He says, especially not ten years old. Of course, in the Criminal Code we also have a restriction on sexual relations between young people, and in any case I am not meant to interfere with this. Article 7a of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code contains a provision for this purpose if, for example, between 16 and 17-year-olds are involved in sexual activity and they are still not affected by this change. Therefore, even after my proposal for a law, there would still be a significant age difference and mismatch. As I said earlier, I have checked that the matter is being dealt with at the Turku Court of Appeal, but I do not know any more about it, and it may be that this interpretation will also change at that hearing, or perhaps it will go to the Supreme Court, I do not know. But in order to ensure that the legislator directs criminal law — and, in this case, at least in the district court, I do not think that the interpretation went in the desired direction, and not, among other things, according to Professor Matti Tolvanen, who I mentioned earlier — it would be appropriate for the legislature to ensure that there are no gaps of interpretation of this kind. Professor Emerita Terttu Utriainen has also publicly suggested that a decision should be given to the higher courts for a preliminary ruling. Let's see how this goes down there. In any event, even if this individual case changes, and of course they usually have a guiding effect, but when I do not know what has been complained about there and how, in the event that Article 1(2) of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code adds — that is to say, the article on rape — the lack of development caused by the age of a young person. After this amendment, that paragraph would read as follows: 'Article 1, Rape. Rape is also condemned by the fact that another person, by taking advantage of unconsciousness, illness, disability, state of fear, — and this is now the addition — is unable to defend himself or to form or express his will, because of the immaturity of young age or other helpless state, to have sexual relations with him.' The idea is, therefore, that this young age should be excluded from this place, and I do not think that the Court of Justice will have the opportunity to interpret the matter in such a way that the young child and his consent can be given meaning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u186	Mr President! Indeed, this bill proposes to add the young age of the victim to Chapter 20, Section 1(2) of the Penal Code as one of the alternative signs of rape. And, as Mr Meri said well, in the current situation, when a young child has been victimized by sexual crime, it has only been possible, for example, to condemn an act of gross sexual exploitation, which, in my opinion, is unlikely to correspond to the public's general sense of justice. One of the general guidelines of this government has been to change the penalty scale or to check it in such a way as to improve the general sense of justice for citizens. Generally speaking, it would be important to have substantial and severe penalties, particularly for sexual offences, and that is what this bill is about. The example of Mr Mere shows that, unfortunately, sometimes at least the judgments of district courts are too mild. In fact, this bill would guide the case law in the direction that sexual crimes against young victims, involving sexual intercourse, would be condemned as gross rapes and thus, in many cases, would clearly be given more severe sentences. Mr President! This initiative by Mrs Mere is very much to be welcomed. I believe that the vast majority of the people are in favour of it. I have signed it myself, and I wish the bill success in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-08-ps-66.u187	Mr President! I, too, am here to support Mrs Mere's objective of taking this case into account and ensuring that there are real convictions in these cases. As a Member of Parliament, it is, of course, quite difficult to go and clean up that particular case, and I do not think it would be right to do so as long as that judgment is not yet valid. When individual court decisions are considered, there are, of course, many procedural issues that must then be taken into account, such as the prosecution's arraignment, i.e. what the prosecutor has demanded and what has also been convicted on the basis of that claim. However, when I examined and listened to Mrs Mere’s speech on this matter, it still leaves me with the feeling that there might be a place to check that young age might be mentioned there. In other words, now that this is on the label of rape, 'because of another helpless state it is unable to defend itself', it would be appropriate in the case of such a 10-year-old child, but perhaps for the sake of clarity it could be expressed otherwise. In other words, I think it is quite positive that this will also be looked at in the light of all the convictions, as we know.
