ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Antti Rinne has requested exemption from the membership of the auditors of the Bank of Finland. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Lauri Ihalainen has requested an exemption from the alternate membership of the auditors of the Bank of Finland. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Tom Sandell, the Auditor General, has requested an exemption from the membership of the Bank of Finland’s auditors. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u4	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. Pauli Vahtera has requested an exemption from the appointment of the auditors of the Bank of Finland. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u6	Madam President! This government proposal contains three main points: the provisions on the retirement age of the posts of the Border Guard are amended to reflect the postponement of retirement in line with the pension reform that has already been completed. The service commitments of the Border Guard’s flying personnel will be more clearly tied up on the basis of training and the need for engagement on the need for a commitment. The third point is that legislation is being made on a new European border and coast guard. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Firstly, on the pension reform: In the pension reform, military pension ages also rose in line with the general pension system. The compulsory retirement age of the Border Guard is now lower than the age of the pension entitlement by law. The current regulation will lead to the termination of the employment relationship at retirement age, but there is not yet any entitlement to an old-age pension. Therefore, the resignations of the military posts of the Border Guard must be increased in line with the pension reform. According to the pension reform, the retirement period will be extended by three months per year until a two-year extension has been achieved in 2025. The withdrawal period of the Border Guard should be increased accordingly, i.e. by three months per year, until the two-year extension has been reached. In order for the pension reform to apply equally to all categories of staff, it is also justified to increase in a similar way the withdrawals of senior military posts and pilots of the Border Guard. For reasons of equality, the resignation of some one hundred civil servants covered by the so-called old transitional provisions would also be increased. In this way, the extension of retirement would apply to all the Border Guard staff groups. The legislative reform is the implementation of the Finnish Act on Pensions in the Public Sectors adopted by Parliament in 2015. The increase in the number of divorced pigs is therefore a technical change due to the new pension legislation that has already entered into force. The consequences of the adoption of the Pensions Act on reducing occupational reserves and the division of jobs have already been weighed in Parliament earlier. These proposed changes to the resignations of the Border Guard are in line with the proposed changes to the resignations of the Defence Forces, for which the Government submitted a proposal to Parliament at the beginning of April. Mr President! Secondly, the Border Guard's service commitments, which are also covered by this bill. The employer has the right to consider the need for a commitment in accordance with training and the need to commit border guard personnel to service commitments. A service obligation restricts the possibility for an official to resign. A service undertaking must therefore be required only when the official has been trained and when the commitment is necessary to remain in the service of the official. This is already the practice of the Border Guard, which is now enshrined in the legislation. The proposed changes in the remuneration of an official have no effect. The remuneration of an official of the Border Guard shall be determined on the basis of and in accordance with a qualifying contract. Then, Mr President, the third main point of the proposal is the European Border and Coast Guard, for which the new regulation came into force in October last year. The Regulation established a European Border and Coast Guard, composed of the European Border Surveillance Agency, Frontex and the national authorities responsible for border security. The European Border and Coast Guard aims to ensure integrated border management at the external borders in Europe in order to manage the crossing of external borders effectively. The regulation will provide new means of improving the control of external borders. Border security and potential vulnerabilities in each Member State will be assessed at EU level. If necessary, the country may be obliged to receive border control assistance, even against its own view, if the country is not considered to be able to cope with the problem alone. In addition, Frontex's role as coordinator of return operations will be strengthened. This year, the Border Guard will participate in joint operations coordinated by Frontex with a contribution of around 20 man-years. This includes, among other things, the participation of the watchboat Seabear in a long-term operation by a multinational European crew. Finland’s share of the pool of 1500 people assembled for rapid border interventions is 30 persons. These 30 people come from the Border Guard. The new regulation will require changes to existing laws. Border guards would provide for national decision-making if Finland were obliged to receive border control assistance coordinated by Frontex without its own request. The situation is very unlikely, but if this were to happen, the Government's General Assembly would decide on the measures to be taken. Border guards would also provide border control assistance to provide operational powers for future members of the Rapid Border Intervention Team. Visiting officials should follow the instructions of the Border Guard and, as a general rule, in the presence of the competent Finnish official. They could only use force in the presence of a Finnish border guard. Under the Border and Coast Guard Regulation, Frontex will begin to coordinate more effectively the efforts of the Member States involved in return, whether by forced return or by voluntary return. In its activities, Frontex respects fundamental rights and international law. Member States shall make experts available to the Agency in the pool of forced return escorts. The police will report six experts to this escort reserve, including representatives of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman will participate in the reserve of forced return supervisors. It should be noted that Frontex's coordinated returns do not fully replace returns from Finland, but create a new opportunity for returns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u7	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. After all, security, alongside education, education and employment and growth, was at the top of the government's mid-term review, and this proposal now deals with the Border Guard and, among other things, the promotion and enhancement of external border control and decision-making processes in situations where more common forces are needed for external border control. This is very positive that these issues are now being brought before Parliament. Both this and the second motion, where crime prevention is concerned, are related. I would like to thank Minister Risikko for the good measures taken in the area of internal security and also external security. Compared to the previous framework, there is now a significant increase in the number of euros. The military will receive another 50 million and the contract soldiers will receive another 2 million. This will enable us to ensure, among other things, the operation of new, more rapid response forces, and will also increase the amount of EUR 8 million for the Border Guard, which will certainly be more than necessary now, as will the additional budget of almost EUR 35 million for the police. Of course, the protection police will also receive EUR 3.5 million in the same package. At the same time, cooperation between the police, the army and the Border Guard and the protection police currently under discussion will also be stepped up and procedures will be reformed. And so it is that the situation has changed very quickly and we must keep the legislation up-to-date.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u8	Madam President! Like Mr Heinonen, I am delighted to welcome the decisions of the government in the mid-term debate on the fact that these very important and important additional contributions to internal security were actually made. Thank you to the entire government for that. I would have asked the Minister about this bill now before us. It is noted here that your resignations, which are now rising, currently employ some 2,300 professional soldiers at the Border Guard and, in the event of a crisis, some 25% of the managers required by the Agency are in the reserve. Now, with this change, it is precisely this performance that is being addressed at the time of the war. The proposal states that the impact of the change on the performance of the Border Guard during the war will be minimised by training the appropriate military forces to be the leaders of the wartime forces. I would have asked the Minister: how will this training be implemented in practice, how will it be selected and what cost implications it will have?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u9	Madam President! These two main points in this proposal are, in a way, of a technical nature, because these extensions of retirement ages have already been decided on in the past and it is clear that withdrawals and related legislation will also have to be addressed. But I believe that the main question in this whole package of proposals is precisely this legislation concerning the European Border and Coast Guard, which will be built and built on this Frontex. And the Minister has already touched on this exceptional and, in fact, unlikely situation, which would require Member States and possibly Finland to receive support coordinated by the Agency on their territory without their own request, without the request of the Government or the Border Guard. And here, of course, we are moving in a very sensitive area of state independence, because the task of an independent state is to be responsible for its own borders and that decision-making power must, of course, be held very firmly in an independent country. It is understandable, of course, that these very exceptional situations may arise, but I remained to wonder whether it is appropriate that, in such a serious situation, only the General Assembly of the Government should then take a position on this decision and not come to Parliament at all, because it is a very important and important decision-making right of an independent state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u10	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Räsä, for raising an important issue. That was the speech of an experienced Minister of the Interior. Indeed, controlling and responding to borders is an extremely important fundamental issue for a sovereign state. And when other people come to the borders to carry out border controls, the question is that that decision must be taken with due consideration and there must be strong grounds for doing so. I also wonder whether this is an issue in which it is justified that the decision of the Government is sufficient, or whether we should assume that such decisions must also be approved by Parliament. In many areas of foreign and security policy we have a rather precise procedure for keeping Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and a large committee informed and also for taking their positions before Finland takes its own positions. Then, if we take the position of bringing foreigners here to help control the borders, it is a much more far-reaching position than some political statement in the European Union. I therefore hope that the committees, when dealing with this issue, will also consider this issue very carefully from the point of view of the role of Parliament in the democratic world. After all, we are currently working on a package of parliamentary budgetary and supervisory powers in the Audit Committee. Research has been carried out into changes in the limits of the parliamentary budgetary and supervisory powers, and there has been a great deal of concern about how the influence of the decision-makers elected by the people can be realised and how much power will be lost elsewhere for various reasons. Here is another issue to consider: whether it is going as it has been suggested or whether it is going to be necessary to change this course of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u11	Madam President! I believe that this debate, which is now taking place, is very important. I myself, as a long-standing Member of Parliament, have often wondered about the power of Parliament. That is why I believe that the idea that has been put forward is good, even in this debate, when the matter comes to committee, from this point of view. In such a way — I do not know the details — I could easily assume that, in a committee hearing, I believe that Parliament should then make such decisions. I believe that this is a big, important issue, and I trust that this is what the committee is looking at from the point of view of Parliament's power. President! Perhaps a few words on the situation and resources of the Border Guard. After all, we in the Administrative and Security Section have constantly been concerned, as well as as as social democrats, about a certain amount of money. The border guard, the protection police and the police, are familiar things we have talked about many times in this Chamber. It was very good that a few weeks before the framework, a few weeks earlier, when we had a debate, the minister, for example, paid the necessary attention to these figures from the police. After all, there was a huge contradiction that the internal security report and the spending limits, these two when compared, happened to define objectives by word of mouth, for example, for more police officers than would have been the case. And, of course, it is of the utmost importance that these additions have been made to the police, to the Border Guard and to the Supper, but, as was said here last time, whether or not last week, these resources may never be sufficient, and that is why we raised this supplementary police issue, among other things. Of course, it is good to mention here, when we have heard in that section that there has been concern about the Emergency Response Centre and its resources, and certainly there has been reflection on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u12	Mr President! Of course, there is a good connection between this legislation on international assistance and the reception of assistance, which, at least on the basis of public debates, has been sought, including this emergency situation, a certain parliamentary margin, that is, a system of consultation of Parliament. And that is certainly also the argument on this point, which at the time received some public attention, precisely because, as the Minister said, this leaves, a model in which assistance would be provided without the request of the recipient. In fact, I would like to hear a few words: would this kind of support be possible in what kind of situation, and does this simply mean that it cannot be refused? In other words, would this essentially be a transparent decision at the stage when it was decided by this joint European player?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u13	Mr President! This Border Guard legislation implements the EU Common Border and Coast Guard Regulation on Common European Action. It is good that the EU is working together to strengthen the security and control of the external borders. It has now emerged, mainly in the context of this migration crisis, that such a need exists, and this is what the common European measures are now responding to, and Finland will play its part in implementing this. This may also be important for us, because Finland is one of the EU Member States with a long EU external border. Of course, there is now an interest in this, and many of the speakers have pointed out that Finland too could be obliged to receive Frontex's assistance in the area of border security, even if we ourselves did not make such a request. There is also a background to this: it is from elsewhere in Europe such a hypothetical situation for which this issue has been set up, but when it cannot be done for a particular country, it applies to everyone. However, now that there is a referral debate, President, I would ask the Minister to open up a little more of this possible situation in which a Member State could be obliged to receive the assistance of Frontex and this common border and coastguard without the Member State's own will. What would this situation be, what would it possibly be for Finland, and then how would we deal with it? President! The Minister also pointed out in his presentation that this new border and coast guard will be used for the return of these asylum seekers. I would like to ask: is it certain that these measures are compatible with international human rights conventions and that the procedures are already known to everyone in advance — that they are human and humane and that they meet all the highest standards?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u14	Mr President! This issue has an impact on the work of the Border Guard and also on the situation of wartime with regard to the professional military reserve, precisely in this retirement age change. On the Defence Forces side, this change will have the effect of reducing the reserve of professional soldiers by about 40%. What is the Minister's assessment of this on the Border Guard's side? And I am also interested, as Mr Kärnä said earlier, in terms of the consequences of this particular cycle of duties and training and career. What has been more important in this debate, perhaps more than this debate on the age of retirement, is precisely this wartime situation and the number of trained leaders we have, both professional leaders and then in the reserve. Pressure will come from both the Defence Forces and the Raja side of this training in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u15	Mr President! I will continue with this responsibility for border control. It is known that there have been considerable difficulties in controlling borders in the Schengen area, and of course the leaking of the Schengen external border will cause problems for all the other Schengen countries. Then this solution, which is based on the assumption that aid that has not been welcomed can be given, is very difficult to understand. If the sovereign state does not want foreign nationals to take care of border control on its soil, how can one in practice think that it could go there? It's an interesting experiment, though. And how many troops are going there if they don't want that help? And to what extent does it begin to approach the occupation of the country in order to put this border control into practice? An extraordinary construction, and I have not seen any proper reflection on this issue. But now that this is coming to our discussion and we have to take a stand on it, it is worth going through the whole exercise. I am now looking at Mr Zyskowicz. He was very active at the time when discussions were held on the Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Assistance, the Treaty between Finland and the Soviet Union. There was also a starting point in that agreement for aid to be given, and then the question was whether that help should be hoped for or whether the helper could come to help, even if there is no help to be desired. I recall that Mr Zyskowicz was then, as I was, part of the school that only such assistance can be provided, which is what is hoped for, but no agreement could provide assistance without the help being welcomed. Well, this gives cause to think and go through this carefully, and the result of this too is that we need to see what the right procedure is at home in such a decision-making situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u16	Mr President! I would have continued this good reflection which was initiated by the representatives of Räsänen and Heinäluoma. And thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Indeed, this may happen particularly now at a time when we are also considering our own defence and assistance solutions, and, of course, border guard and coast guard activities have a direct connection with national defence, and we are part of the EU's external borders, and these are important issues for us too. But, of course, this raises the question that if someone is unable to ask for help or wants to ask, either his structure has collapsed so that he is no longer able to ask for it, or he is unwilling to ask for this help. In cases where someone is reluctant to ask for help and gets help without asking, they may start to act against this help. It includes even such higher occupational safety risks and these types of risks that should be taken into account here. I would also like to hear the Minister think about this. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered this issue of providing and receiving assistance, it has been examined in these practical cases that what would be the situation, and I believe that this issue, in which possible circumstances such articles would become more topical, would be better opened up through such cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u17	Mr President! In this security situation, I too drew attention to how this fits in from the point of view of this Parliament's collective view of the present defence and security solutions. As far as safety is concerned, it seems a little suspicious that a situation might arise where someone would not ask for help but we would still like to help. What would be the situation in Finland’s interests? So could there really be a situation in which we would like to give help to someone who would not accept it? I think there would be quite a security policy threat for us, so it does seem that this might be the very side which should then be checked with particular care in Parliament. And what would be the procedure for finally starting to do so? What political assessment would result in this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u18	Madam President! This has been an excellent debate. Personally, when we have decided to be part of the European Union, when we have entered Schengen and when we have common border control in Europe, it is extremely important that we take care of the sustainability of its system. If a country refuses to fulfil the obligations imposed by this agreement on the countries, it is clear that in some way the Member States must intervene and ensure that border control is maintained and that the external borders really do. I understand the problem that it is challenging to go out and determine when to start giving assistance to a country that may not have asked for it itself. The second option, of course, is to close the external borders of each country in Europe, but I personally do not see this as a sustainable procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u19	Mr President! Mr Kärnä referred to the question of what to do if the external border leaks. One option is indeed to send help, but, as has been said, it is rather problematic if it is not welcomed. In my view, a more natural starting point in such a situation is that a Schengen country does not fulfil its border obligations, then it cannot be part of Schengen or Schengen temporarily suspended for that country. It is logical, clear and possible, of course not without problems either, but it would seem far wiser to go than to think that something will run away from such troops to a place that has not been invited. I will address this second issue, which has been raised here, concerning the issue of the wartime reserve. This is what we talked about earlier in the Defence Forces. It was concerned about how the reserve needs can be met under conditions where retirement age rises and the people who previously retired but who could be used for several years in the reserve are no longer in the same way. This same question inevitably applies to the activities of the Border Guard, and I would therefore ask the Minister to explain how the use of the reserve trained by the Border Guard, specifically the army reserve, has been thought of and how the changes will affect this part of the reserve. I would like to remind you that the central base of our defence is general military service and a large reserve, and it also requires the availability of senior officers who have been trained for key tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u20	Before Minister Risikko, Mr Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u21	Madam President! In my view, common rules of play in the Schengen area are justified, and it is in fact very difficult even to imagine a scenario in which Finland would be obliged to take support for its border control without Finland's own request, a request from the Government or the Border Guard. But for some reason these rules and regulations have been made, and that is why I think it is very important to think through the procedures at what level and in what way these possible exceptional situations might take place. There is also the rule that in the future, however, visiting officials, external officials, should continue to act in accordance with the instructions of the Border Guard and in the presence of a Finnish official, i.e. to provide support for the presence of a Finnish official, although this Article of the Border and Coast Guard also allows the host Member State to even use force without its own domestic presence of border guards. In other words, rather deep down there, the sovereignty of a sovereign state is being addressed here, and that is why I think that these rules of the game should be very clear for possible exceptional situations and, in my opinion, Parliament should also be involved in this. This same problem would be met if we had to decide, together with other countries, that we are going to give help again to a country that would not want to accept it, and I think it would be good if Parliament were involved in such heavy-duty decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u22	And now Minister Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u23	Madam President! Thank you for the good questions. Here are a few, for example the number of reserves now decreasing. Thus, the time between the retirement age and the senior military age in the reserve for trained soldiers will be reduced by two years, thus reducing the reserve by 40%. With regard to the Border Guard, this change has been particularly highlighted, as the Border Guard is responsible for border security tasks and military defence tasks in border forces, even in crises of a lower level than the war, where the use of trained reserves is emphasised. The number of professional soldiers in service cannot be increased. A smaller number of trained soldiers will have to be replaced by conscripts, those who have been trained for about one year and those who have a refresher period of up to 100 days. However, this does not achieve the same performance as using professional staff. Of course, by amending the Military Obligations Act, the number of refresher training days for reservists could be increased and thus corrected in some respects, but on the other hand, it has many other economic implications for society and would increase the pressure to raise the number of training staff for the Defence Forces and the Border Guard. The current number of trained soldiers in the reserve is also necessary in exceptional circumstances such as the large influx of asylum seekers that started at the northern border crossing points in 2015. The Border Guard prepared itself for the changed situation by increasing its readiness to set up a staff reserve of approximately 130 persons trained and equipped from retired border guards. This voluntary team will therefore be recruited in the short term. When you asked here how this training will take place and how it will be maintained, I hope that, in the committee hearing, you will then hear the practical activities of the Border Guard and how it will be done. Mr President! Then there are many things in the government's proposal, and one important point is that this Frontex action is now being strengthened. That is necessary at the moment, and here a special debate and questions have now been raised, who will decide that Frontex will help if it is not originally wanted by itself? Indeed, a Member State can be obliged, by decision of the Council, to receive border security assistance coordinated by Frontex, even if the Member State itself does not ask for it. This could happen when there are deficiencies in the control of the external borders of a Member State and there are no deficiencies and pose a risk to the functioning of the Schengen system. Every one of us understands that this is a very extreme situation, and when such an extreme situation comes, we must have a chance of action and that we will actually be able to get it under control. There was talk here about how to make such a decision. Now it is here, by the decision of the Government, in this government proposal, but I think it is very welcome for you to have a debate here in Parliament then and to take these examples, for example, at the Border Guard, how this type of situation could be escalated, and you also wonder whether there is time in all cases for Parliament's decision to be made. I understand that these are very difficult decisions. Then, on that return operation, it is precisely the question of the return of an asylum seeker who has received a valid negative decision, and that is the practice we have at the moment, namely that Frontex will help with these returns and will now continue to do so. In the past, Frontex has played a more co-ordination role, and this law now strengthens the role of Frontex. After all, Frontex's role in return has already been strengthened by the establishment of a return agency to assist Member States and coordinate return operations. For the purposes of return cooperation, a staff reserve shall be established for return and hotspot activities, and hotspot shall therefore mean a registration centre where illegal immigrants are identified, registered and subject to the necessary registration checks. But this is a question of this return operation, and it is certainly also a matter of practice in committee hearings. I think it is very necessary for us to have a Frontex-type organisation that will help. That is precisely where we are working together, and together we are more than a single country. 2015 has already shown us that we really need cooperation, but the rules of the game must of course be in order and the decision-making systems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u24	Mr President! The Minister's report was very good and then came to these problems. However, on the basis of this debate, I believe that it is essential for Parliament as a whole to address this issue, and I hope that the parliamentary groups will also reflect on the positions. The fact that foreign border guards come to Finland is not a big deal. When we generally have this kind of very legal orientation, a legal way of dealing with matters and also the staff assumes that the laws adopted will be applied and they are committed to strict compliance with the law, then it is very important for what these practices are and what is set out here as a procedure. What I mean is that there cannot be a situation in which, on the basis of a law of this kind, there might be a different interpretation of whether or not foreign border guards can appear here in a different way than that of some other party entitled to take decisions. Then I also think that this has a great deal to do with the debate on this issue of providing and receiving foreign aid and the procedures involved, of which Parliament has clearly had the will to keep that decision-making in the hands of Parliament. It is also related to the fact that Finland cannot be bound to international conflicts and, therefore, possibly also to the genuine risk of war by the decisions of a very small group. So there should be an exclamation mark and a yellow light on for a little longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u25	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Minister for that reply. It is very important to go through the procedures that everyone understands what will result if this bill is adopted. A joint decision could be taken to send EU border control authorities, not just anyone, but the competent border control authorities of the common European Union. This is something that needs to be considered, of course, from Finland's own interest. For us, this is a significant issue, as has been said, we are one Member State with a significant external border. But we also need to think about this from the point of view of what we are getting for the EU together and what the consequences would then be if such a procedure were not possible. The experience from 2015 is very telling, and this is the conclusion of the Joint Border and Coast Guard Agency and its powers. In other words, this must be considered both from the perspective of Finland's own national interest and from the perspective of a common European security interest. President! I would also like to ask the Minister about this when you spoke for a long time about this return of asylum seekers and the related powers and resources of Frontex: In your view, is this new border and coast guard sufficient to intervene, as it were, because today's situation is the tragic situation that asylum seekers on ships that fly across the Mediterranean are arriving and unfortunately many are dying on that journey? Will this new authority then be able to intervene so that fewer and fewer asylum seekers in Europe will lose their lives on this journey?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u26	If you'd like to respond, Minister Risikko, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u27	Mr President! It was an important question whether we could intervene in advance. That is the most important thing that we should be able to deal with in advance. We now have, among other things, this international Frontex joint operation, in which our Border Guard is also involved, in which we are trying to help the victims of these brisk boats, and indeed of trafficking in human beings. That is why I am very proud that Finnish expertise is now on the move, and we are constantly getting information about whether we could do even more to prevent that happening. Of course, it is always one of Frontex's tasks to help and prevent this kind of activity, including criminal activity, and it is great that Finland is involved in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u28	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u29	Madam President! A government proposal would provide for a new law on crime prevention at the Border Guard. The Border Guard Act is proposed to be separated from the provisions on crime prevention in its own right. There are no significant changes to the crime prevention of the Border Guard; rather, it is a question of making the provisions on the powers of action of the Border Guard to combat crime more precise and clearer. The focus of the Border Guard’s crime prevention is on maintaining border security in cross-border traffic, in particular in the fight against illegal entry offences. In addition, the Border Guard monitors compliance with the Water Transport Act, the Hunting Act and the Fishing Act, among other things. With regard to the control measure, this proposal suggests that the Border Guard could in future investigate infringements of the Law of the Sea. In maritime areas, water traffic control is mainly carried out by the Border Guard. However, at present, the Border Guard cannot carry out a preliminary investigation in the event of a breach of the provisions of the Law of the Sea, such as a lack of good seaman skills. Mr President! Another proposal relating to the control action is that the Border Guard could exercise greater control over the Road Traffic Act at border crossing points. At present, the Border Guard is mainly responsible for monitoring the driving capacity of drivers and the roadworthiness of vehicles. In other matters, you have to ask the police for assistance or a request from the police to pay a fine by the Border Guard. This is not justified by the appropriate use of public authority resources. In the future, the Border Guard could monitor in particular compliance with traffic rules and traffic control equipment at border crossing points. Mr President! The Border Guard may use secret means of intelligence to prevent the offences it is investigating. These powers would remain unchanged, but would be written in detail instead of referring to the law on the police. The Border Guard investigates falsifications of travel documents and offences of concealment detected during border checks. The offences of concealment are, for example, the transport of stolen goods across the external border. The proposal proposes that the Border Guard investigate and use telecommunications surveillance in cases of gross counterfeiting, gross concealment and professional concealment. Telecommunications control may be the only way to provide sufficient evidence for these crimes, which are usually carried out by organised international criminal groups. Today, the Border Guard can use telecommunications surveillance to investigate the organisation of serious illegal immigration and the associated trafficking in human beings, the serious hunting crime and the serious concealment of illegal prey. Mr President! The new law would not entail any additional expenditure on central government finances. However, the expansion of road traffic surveillance in particular requires further training for border guards and students of border guards. The training is carried out in the workplace and in the studies of the border guard’s basic course. The proposed law would continue to ensure an effective framework for the fight against crime by the Border Guard in a constantly changing and challenging environment. It is hoped that this new draft law on crime prevention at the Border Guard will come into force from the beginning of next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u30	Madam President! The proposal proposes a law on crime prevention at the Border Guard. The primary task of the government is to ensure the safety of society and all its members. The key task is border control and who will be admitted and under what conditions. The task of the Border Guard is to maintain border security. The Border Guard carries out the specific monitoring tasks assigned to it, the tasks of crime prevention, police and customs, search and rescue tasks and participates in military defence. This is what they have the power to do. Article 4 of the Border Guard provides for the regional allocation of the Border Guard. As far as pre-trial investigations are concerned, the regional allocation of operations is always primarily linked to the maintenance of border management or border management. This includes measures aimed at preventing infringements of the provisions on crossing the national border and the external border and threats to public order and security arising from cross-border passenger traffic and at combating cross-border crime and ensuring the security of border crossings. The tasks of the Border Guard are extremely demanding and contribute to creating security for all of us. Fortunately, in the mid-term debate, the Government has understood to increase the budget of the Border Guard by some EUR 8 million, inter alia, to improve controls at the external borders in 2018. I also believe that the entire programme of savings for the Border Guard should be suspended. There will be no compromises on safety. The police, Customs and the Border Guard have a lot of common tasks, especially in the vicinity of the border. According to Article 2(1) of the PTR Co-operation Act, the PTR authority may, upon request, carry out an individual crime prevention measure within the remit of another PTR authority. However, the authority carrying out a measure falling within the scope of the second PTR authority shall exercise only the powers which it has in its area of responsibility in relation to its activities in the field of crime prevention. According to Article 7(3) of the same Law, a representative of a PTR authority is entitled to participate in a PTR data acquisition and investigation team under the leadership of a group leader and under the necessary supervision in order to carry out information acquisition and investigation measures to which the representative of that PTR authority is competent in its area of responsibility for the crime prevention tasks of that PTR authority. According to Article 43a(3) of the Border Guard, the Border Guard has the right to process data obtained by a method which is not available to the Border Guard. I believe that such cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard and the exercise of their powers should be further facilitated, because the goal is a common one, that is to say, the fight against crime. According to Article 20 of the Border Guard, at border crossing points, the Border Guard supervises the driving capacity of drivers and the transport capacity of vehicles. At border crossing points, the border guard is also entitled to monitor compliance with social legislation on road transport, compliance with the law on commercial goods transport on the road, compliance with the provisions of the vehicle law, control of the transport of dangerous goods and so on. Also Article 97(2) and Article 96a of the Road Traffic Act The powers of the border guard in the The border guard shall have the power to stop and inspect the vehicle and to require the presentation of driving documents and the right to intervene in the loading of the vehicle and, where appropriate, to prevent the use of the vehicle and the right to monitor compliance with the provisions relating to the use of the protective helmet. Article 95 of the Road Traffic Act Regulation on vehicle driver health control. Pursuant to Chapter 9, Section 2(2) of the Penal Code, a border guard is entitled, in his capacity, to order the driver of a motorised vehicle or any other person acting in the function referred to in Chapter 23 of the Penal Code, a test to be carried out to determine the alcohol or narcotic substance he may be ingesting. Some problems have arisen because, for some reason, the driver’s breath test has been carried out at the request of the police on the main roads, the crash site, far from the national border outside the area of activity. In many cases, the police have finally had to be called on to complete the task. Of course, Article 21 of the Border Guard provides that the Border Guard may, in an individual case, at the request of a police officer under the command of a police officer, carry out such urgent police measures as are necessary to maintain public order and security within the meaning of Chapters 2 and 3 of the Police Code which the police cannot take without delay. Madam President! On the basis of Article 70 of the Driving Licences Act, a border guard may also order the holder of a driving licence to be temporarily disbarred when carrying out border controls and in connection with his other duties. I believe that this right should continue to be maintained outside the sphere of activity itself. The border guard, which is struggling with limited resources, has limited control over road traffic at border crossing points alone. In many cases, you have to ask the police for assistance or a request from the police to pay a fine by the Border Guard. Such action and limited powers cannot in any way be considered justified by the appropriate use of public authority resources, as the Minister has just said. Most often in PTR operations, for example, border guard personnel are involved in heavy traffic surveillance, not only in the immediate vicinity of the border crossing point. In this case, their powers are too limited and limited and in this respect they should be increased. I believe that the powers of control of road traffic by the Border Guard should be extended at border crossing points, near the border and on the main roads, and this government proposal is therefore in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u31	Madam President! This bill, as a whole, is a well-thought-out and well-prepared package and will provide for clearer regulation, including some new powers, on criminal prevention and access by the Border Guard. The problem that has arisen along the way concerns the limits of the powers of the authorities and the way in which crime prevention is distributed between the police and the Border Guard and Customs, but I think that a good and balanced whole has been achieved here, because it is quite clear that, for example, the powers of the Border Guard are essential for the prevention, efficiency and safety of crime, and it is therefore good that this regulation is clarified. Some of this is also an extension, for example in the field of road traffic control, and it is also the case that there is a need for additional training for border guards. It must also be taken into account in the curriculum of the basic training course of the border guard and by providing additional training for the current border guards by means of on-the-job training to enable them to exercise these powers. I would also like to say, Mr President, that it is a very good thing, and I thank the Government and the Minister for that, that the Border Guard has now had the opportunity to provide additional resources, because, especially with regard to the control of the eastern border and other critical obligations of the Border Guard, we would have been in a very difficult situation in just a few years' time. Even these resources cannot make significant improvements, but it is important, especially in this current situation, that we face the tensions that have become familiar in recent years, that our borders are controlled with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u32	Mr President! This is, as a general rule, a very worthwhile and good package that makes sense in relation to the legislation in force. It has been pointed out that there is a certain extension of the border guard's remit in relation to this traffic control and monitoring of the law of the sea, which is certainly justifiable, but it is good to remember, in the same situation, that extensions should not be made in such a way as to reduce nuclear activity, i.e. border security. However, the Border Guard must continue to have the resources to cope with its core task of border security and border control. In view of this, it is quite appropriate to thank the government for making the situation of the Border Guard a little easier in the spending limits debate. Surely there would still be additional need for the future, so that the situation at the borders of the kingdom can be kept in order as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u33	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u34	Mr President! There is a demand for Finnish education in the world, and we know this. It is precisely in this government proposal that access to education is being made possible, that is to say, to export IB education outside the EU and the EEA countries. It is important to note that this does not allow tuition fees or changes to this basis for our Finnish education, but this is, as it were, the possibility of additional income for upper secondary schools that organise such an IB degree. The potential return will then be allocated to its upper secondary school’s own education activities, and then everyone will benefit from it. The second-degree training export task force specifically left IB training for athletes, and there is now a broader perspective, which is a good thing, but it is great if this special training needs for athletes remain there. In this context, when the reform of the law on upper secondary schools is discussed, it may also be possible to thank the government for the decision and registration made in the mid-term debate to launch such a wider reform of the secondary school. There really is a need for this. The government is doing reforms at other levels of education and other forms of education, but now it is definitely high school’s turn, so thank you for this entry. In this context, there will certainly also be a broader examination of the wider possibilities of education exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u35	Mr President! One step at a time towards the complete opening of the education export. You might ask if we could even take faster steps. In Australia, for example, it has been calculated that their education exports are worth about USD 16 billion, and it gives an indication of what possibilities Finland would have in this regard. There is still a very fragmented system for Australia, where there is a very uniform and, you can say, an easily commercialised and productable education system in Finland. In this respect, of course, if you think of upper secondary school education, it is a moderate, good and controlled step that makes it possible for IB training to take place on the IB training side and not to have to fight with these language issues as much as with other education. On the other hand, this also raises the question of how we will make sure that we then have teachers to provide enough. Although there has been some discussion about the need to reduce the number of teachers' training, I would prefer to say that, if we can open up the education export market to Finland, that means that we should consider and see to what extent our teachers' training rates correspond to the future in which we have to take care, above all, of the education of Finnish children and young people, but equally that we have enough professionals on the part of education exports. Thank you very much for once again taking one step. There is good reason to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u36	Mr President! This is probably one of the government's educational proposals that can be welcomed with pleasure. Finnish education is of interest to the world. However, despite its well-known shortcomings in national education policy, we have very high-quality education and it is of interest to the world. What is important now in this government proposal is that this does not include these tuition fees. Upper secondary school IB education is such a popular education, but this is now targeted only at non-EU and EEA citizens, and their current share is very small: we are talking about around 100 young students. But I do see that there is scope for significant growth. And yes, I encourage upper secondary schools, as well as vocational education centres and associations of municipalities in education, to make an active effort also in relation to this education export, because there is demand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u37	President! However, despite the hateful and painful cuts in education, it must be borne in mind that Finland is still a superpower in education and that the Finnish education system is a subject of international interest. This is a very good head start, this opportunity to export high school IB education. And I'm sorry that when this is a head opening law like this... I do not know exactly what the Minister is doing, but it would have been desirable for the minister to have been here himself, because this is historic in a certain sense — although this is a rather modest step, an important step is being taken here. When we are living in a time when different sectors of society are full of strategies and projects and different strategies are then in the shelves pollinating and no one really knows and knows them, you can say that the success of Finnish education policy has not been the result of some project or strategy, the fruit. It has been much more: it has been at the level of a determined, goal-oriented national task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u38	Mr President! It would have been appropriate for the Minister to be here now, because there are rarely words of praise from this side of the Chamber about the government's legislative proposals on education policy. This is indeed a bill that can be supported with pleasure. For a long time we have been talking about the internationalisation of education, the export of education in Finland, the opportunities it offers. These speeches, when put into practice, will come to these issues, including now this presentation, which is a small step, but, as I said here, a historic step, as IB-licensed upper secondary schools will also be able to organise on-demand education for upper secondary school students outside the EU and the EEA, an important step. And that is what this concrete legislation is about when these beautiful speeches on education exports and internationalisation are then introduced into legislation. What I might have wanted to ask the Minister — and let this now be left as a referral question — is how now our wonderful high school education is being sold and marketed. It is one thing to make it possible to buy subscription training in Finland and another is to sell it to the world. It certainly requires resources, and it is good to know who is responsible for this. I don't think high school itself, do they? Is it the National Board of Education or who? Or are the organisations taking Finland to the world? This should be clear in order to focus in upper secondary schools on what is most important to them, i.e. giving high-quality upper secondary school education. By the way, Mr President, I would like to agree with Mr Gustafsson's point of view: it must be unambiguous that this possibility of exporting education does not open up any possibility of tuition fees — it must be clear that tuition fees do not come in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u39	Madam President! I do not know where Mr Grahn-Laasonen is at the moment, but I am absolutely convinced that he will certainly have a valid obstacle, because otherwise nothing would have kept him away from this sitting, where, for example, Mr Gustafsson gave strong thanks and support for the Minister's action on this proposal. But on the subject in hand, I would like to say that when we ask ourselves and others what is the most famous brand in Finland in the world, what is the thing you encounter in a positive sense every time parliamentary committees, for example, are in different parts of Europe or the world, it is in my own experience that it is the highest level and quality of education in Finland. That is why I do not quite understand why this export of education has progressed so slowly. I remember when, during the last parliamentary term, for example, there was a lot of talk about this at the time of Minister Gustafsson — and I think there was already talk of it during the previous parliamentary term. I do not understand why we have made such slow progress and why, even at this stage, it has been said that this is a small step and that there are obviously many more of these small steps that need to be taken. I would like the speed to be high if we were to allow Finnish educational institutions to export to education very widely, because I am sure that there is a demand for Finnish education and education know-how in the world. Tuition fees for Finnish students are quite different, and its fear should not hold us back on this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u40	Mr President! I entirely agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that it would be appropriate to let go of the shackles completely and to market and sell Finnish education. One can say that we have already got off to a good start in higher education, we have already got off to a good start in some way on the professional side. One small step is taken in upper secondary schools this time, but at the same time there is a screaming demand for Finnish comprehensive school. Why do we not produce Finnish comprehensive school with franchise models, for example, when we are also able to scale Finnish comprehensive school for the widest possible market? We also have a lot to learn on the commercial side, to say, how to commercialise Finnish educational products. At the moment, it is a bit of such cutting—glue, momentary and momentary heat, but here we need to find new commercial models that allow us to collect new export revenues from long-term contracts, for example in franchise-type models for Finland. I see very significant opportunities here, as long as we can get our own product palette in order and take a little more commercial expertise from our ministry people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u41	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the government took this important decision on the legislative support for education exports, which the last government was unable to do. It has to do with whether we allow these Finnish education organisers to receive a fee for studying foreign students either at home or elsewhere. And this was not possible during the last term of government, despite the fact that during the last term of government, it was seen for the first time in the history of Finnish education policy that education could also be an export product. When the export promotion programme was being carried out, this was the first time that this was strongly raised. And I am glad that these changes are taking place in small steps. But it must be remembered that today we are discussing in this motion a really two-fold angle of interest. First of all, some of the representatives said that it is great that Finnish upper secondary school education and Finnish education are now being put to the world with this presentation. But IB upper secondary schools do not follow exactly the same so-called program as Finnish upper secondary school education, and I do not think it is bad because it is a task for different purposes. But this is not the time to take Finnish education to the world, which is easy to recognise here, and this volume will be so small that it is more of a question that if we want to see that secondary education is possible to sell to the world, its greatest potential is in the productization of vocational education and training. So, particularly in Africa, there is a huge interest in buying Finnish vocational education and training, and unfortunately we have still not been able to grasp it. I understand the difficulties the government is facing in this regard, but it should have started. And I am sorry that I am a spoilt of joy here, but I support the projects in which these things are carried forward with a volume that is sustainable in terms of education policy. But the biggest job is that this training policy should also be targeted at promoting exports, which unfortunately is still lacking in the government, but which I support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u42	Madam President! It is a good thing that we are talking about this education exports and the project of education exports, and it is a perfect fact that many individual organisations — businesses and public ones — have done this alone. We haven't made the whole story about education exports. It is good that this vocational education came up here too, but I also have a few other experiences in secondary school, even in secondary school and others. Now, for example, there has been quite an interest in Europe in how high school education could be copied or modeled in Finland, where there has been surprisingly much interest in this sector too, and there is both Italy and Slovakia. Slovakia, for example, last week on a trip to our committee had a clear interest in this, and now we must do everything we can to make this export truly real, and together we must support it, to get examples. This kind of Finnish school concept, for example, is currently being implemented in Malta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u43	President! It is indeed true that Finnish education is well known in the world, although not everything is geographically known. I remember here less than ten years ago when the Pisa results had just arrived and I was visiting Germany before Easter week. It is then a long vacation for teachers, and in Berlin I met vacationing teachers. They praised the Finnish education system and then said that it is easy for you to invest in education when you have so much oil money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u46	Mr President! It is always uplifting to have such a good consensus on the various sides of the hall and the government deserves praise for its good performance. As a matter of certainty, when tuition fees have been discussed and raised here as a matter of concern, there is no cause for concern about this government's proposal. At the beginning of the government proposal, I think it is even in the second sentence, it is quite clear that this change would not allow tuition fees to be charged to students, but that the costs of education would be borne by the subscriber. So the only question is to bring the possibility of additional income to upper secondary schools which organise IB education. This is a very good thing and a good proposal from the government, and we would also like to see further proposals in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u47	Mr President! It may now be worth saying to the parliamentary minutes that it is no accident that in Finland the level of education has been long and is still relatively high. We have pursued a genuinely national education policy here, which has been shepherded by national legislation, good teacher training and various guidance systems. I have met a lot of colleagues from Europe, the world, even from the Nordic countries who have wondered how you have been able to stick to national education policy in Finland. When the results of the Pisa study came, I was a guest of the OECD Secretariat in Paris and they were gasping. When you don't have a competition here, there are no inspectors or anyone else, how do you do this? I said that we have had responsible politicians, together with competent officials, doing this education policy. I cannot help emphasising that the work and handprint of the Social Democrats has been historically the most important. [Murder ] — — — — Well, here comes the left and the rustic union and so on, and perhaps in recent years the coalition has gradually become part of this hose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u50	Mr President! Yes, the pace would have needed more, but an old proverb says that slowly good will come. In that regard, perhaps it is a place to think sometimes about how those controlled steps are made, that if you take too big a hawk then you can lose your reputation. In this respect, the government's proposal is a very good example of making such a small gap and trying out a little product and seeing how it is going to be put on the market. But at the same time we have to admit that as soon as we show that it is our thing to get more work and growth for Finland, we must also have the capacity to change legislation quickly, not so that it is considered for years, but we must also have the ability to make changes quickly. One can say that this kind of view of bogeymans prefers to turn this point into that instead of bogeymans see opportunities, opportunities above all through the possibility of doing new work, getting new tax revenue, strengthening our expertise, in a way to put it a positive bike even more strongly in motion. This is not just about selling upper secondary school education, but it also involves a large number of different companies that employ Finns. Let us take the example of our apps, we may have textbook production, we may have farm planning, we may also have questions about these school furniture. This is a large entity, and it is advisable for the Finnish Parliament and Finland to speed up education exports in all areas where this is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u51	Madam President! The University magazine has had at least ten years of mixed discussion about this Pisa study and tried to explain why these results in Finland are excellent. One reason seems to be that in Finland children’s films are not dubated but read texts, which strengthens the willingness of young people, children to learn to read and write. The Finnish language is also written in practice in the same way as it is pronounced. In Finland, the population is very homogeneous, which means that the averages, which are crucial in the Pisa study, become reasonably high automatically. Why have these exports not been made to work, then that is another question. Why have those who did well in Pisa studies twenty years ago not been able to commercialise this excellent knowledge of ours? That may be because of many things, but I bet it is not quite as simple as that, and perhaps we should not be believers in such good personal excellence, because then, on the basis of education, we have little or no progress in the economy. If you're looking at the last frame bar, you don't think they've all been in the frame bar with the Pisa study?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u52	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 7/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u53	Mr President! I would like to start this speech by emphasising that management registration is prohibited in Finland and will continue to be prohibited. Now abroad it is also made unprofitable. So this is the government's compromise that the government has reached: the management registration is made unprofitable abroad. A key question has arisen as to whether Finland can prevent Finns from acting under the law of another EU country in another EU country. I want to open this question with an example, an example that I believe many of us understand: Take the Czech Republic, for example. In the Czech Republic, legislation is in place to allow restaurant opening around the clock. In Finland, on the other hand, there is stricter legislation — which we can of course do — and restaurants must not be open around the clock. [Department :Assignments! ] Can we use Finnish legislation to prevent Finns from going to a restaurant in the Czech Republic at 6 a.m. to order beer? Everyone can wonder in their own minds whether this is legally possible. How, then, will this example now be put into this CSD deposit? [ Hustles from the left] It comes in such a way that, thanks to the international exchange of tax information, we are informed of citizenship abroad. Thus, this bartender in the Czech Republic automatically informs Finland that the bar is Finnish. And now we come to what this government compromise is. A Finnish can pay for his beer in two ways: (a) at a reasonable price or (b) at a very high price, which simply is not worth paying for beer. This Finn can choose, and by showing him an identity card he gets his beer at the first option, i.e. a reasonable price. This example certainly clarifies this point; it clarified this very much for me. But let us now go to the actual report. [ Hustles from the left] Mr President! On 23 July 2014, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Regulation on improving securities settlement and central securities depositories. This Regulation entered into force on 17 September 2014. The objective of this Regulation is to harmonise the clearing of securities by establishing uniform operating rules and standards, to increase competition between CSDs in the internal market, to create an integrated market in securities settlement, to improve the security and efficiency of cross-border transactions, to ensure a level playing field for CSDs in the internal market, to simplify cross-border activities and to reduce fragmentation of clearing and settlement. These have been the objectives of this Regulation. The aim of the Government proposal is to make changes to national legislation as a result of the entry into force of the Regulation. The starting point is regulation at Union level, and since it is a priority in relation to national provisions, it is a matter of regulation in which Finland has limited national discretion. The Regulation is directly binding and supersedes the national provisions which are incompatible with it. For the sake of clarity of the law, it is justified to amend national legislation. It would be problematic if the existing legal situation were not able to cope with national legislation. Mr President! A key reform is that the issuer of the security has the right to choose the CSD that it uses from CSDs approved in the EEA. The securities issued by a Finnish company can therefore in future be connected to a foreign book-entry system. The CSD's participants shall provide both a collective client-separated and individually separated custody account. Several types of storage systems are in place in EU Member States, but they are not of a common dimension. Individual customer separation means that the CSD participant distinguishes the value shares of each of its clients so that the actual owner of each of the shares is reflected in the CSD's data as the owner. An investor is obliged to open a securities account in all CSDs in which he wishes to invest in securities issued and can only use a custodian who is a party to the abovementioned CSD for storage. A joint client separation refers to the registration of securities on a common account in the name of a clearing member in the CSD. In such a case, all the ownership of the clients of that party is recorded in a single book-entry account and there is talk of a management registration. The investor can then own and manage securities around the world using only one custodian. Mr President! A few words about the publicity of ownership: Individual customer separation ensures public publicity and public authorities access to ownership information significantly easier and faster than in a multi-step management model. In the case of management registration, custody chains may be long and cross national borders in a way that may hamper or impede the identification of the final beneficiary. The Government's proposal requires a Finnish company to enter into a contract with a foreign CSD. A limited liability company or cooperative shall conclude a contract with a foreign CSD under which the CSD shall provide the company with information on its shareholders. This will ensure access to the information of the authorities. Since Finland’s national law cannot regulate the operation of a foreign CSD or book-entry system, the obligation must therefore be imposed on a Finnish company. The question as to whether Finnish legislation could require that the issuer’s freedom to choose a CSD be limited — that is, that a Finnish issuer could only choose a CSD providing a direct ownership-specific account or keeping owner information in its own system so that the information of the final beneficiary is visible in a manner comparable to that of direct ownership — is a clear answer. The Regulation does not harmonise Member States' company law. Securities shall be governed by the law of the State whose securities are regulated. Under the Regulation, the requirements of national law must not restrict companies' right to choose a CSD. Thus, Finnish legislation does not provide for the organisation of the storage of securities and individual customer separation in a foreign CSD. How, then, does the exception provision in Article 38(5) go? A CSD shall offer individual customer separation to citizens and residents of a Member State and to legal persons established therein where this is required in accordance with the national law of the Member State under which the securities were created, as in force, 17. The date of entry into force of this Regulation shall be This obligation shall apply for as long as national legislation has not been amended or repealed and its objectives remain valid. The Regulation does not require the use of any specific form of securities depository. Moreover, the Regulation does not impose any obligation to provide directly managed accounts in countries where such accounts are not in use. However, the derogation allows the Member State to maintain the legal status of the storage systems in its own country on 17 September 2014. Therefore, the shares issued by a Finnish company in a Finnish CSD must continue to be recorded in a direct book-entry account if the shares are owned by a natural person, a Finnish entity or a foundation. The registration of the administration is therefore prohibited in Finland in the future. In its report, the conclusion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the use of the derogation is that the Government's proposal is legally sustainable and coherent. For example, this Government proposal does not alter the flagging limits currently in force. The public disclosure of significant holdings would remain at the current level, regardless of the chosen storage model. The derogation is without prejudice to the main rights of the Regulation, such as the issuer’s right to choose a CSD. Finland cannot restrict this freedom on the grounds that a Member State has a system of value-share management which is different from that of Finland. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes, however, that the regulation proposed by the Board of Directors will partly change the information provided by the Authority on the final beneficiaries of the shares and shares. In its earlier opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has stressed that Finland should strive in further negotiations to ensure that the principles of disclosure of ownership are implemented in EU regulation. In the legislative text, these aspects have not been realised in the way that Finland seeks. The national margin should therefore be used in the best way possible, also taking into account the impact of the legislation in the neighbouring sectors on the issue at hand. Mr President! As regards the withholding tax on dividends — which is, in fact, the government’s compromise — the amount of the simplified notification procedure for dividends received from managed shares which allows the payer to collect a withholding tax on dividends received from managed shares on the basis of the tax convention only on the basis of the final beneficiary’s country information, if the tax agreement provides for a withholding tax of 15% or more on dividends and if certain conditions for the account manager and asset manager are met. In such cases, the annual declaration to the tax administration may include the information of the foreign asset manager instead of the final recipient’s data and the State of residence for tax purposes. In its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy calls for the simplified notification procedure to be abolished and for all dividends received from managed shares to be reported to the Tax Administration on the final recipient of the dividend. In addition, it is necessary to assess whether the tax rate under the withholding tax law is sufficiently effective, clear and equitable in order to ensure public disclosure of ownership. [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u54	Next up, Congressman Myllykoski. And after Mrs Myllykoski, it will be possible to have a debate if there is a will to do so, and there will also be an opportunity for Minister Orpon to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u55	Madam President! The government’s proposal for a law on the valuation system and clearing and settlement, as well as some related laws, has become a dead end. The government's proposal contains the following changes from the EU Securities Agency, which we are forced to introduce into national legislation. That's not what I'm criticizing. That's management registration. Finland currently has a system of direct ownership. Under this scheme, the ownership of the shares is in the name of the owners, in his account at the CSD. This is not the case in the management registration, but only the name of the account-opened custodian, such as the bank, but not the owner. The use of management registration reduces the transparency of ownership. The direct disclosure of ownership information from the CSD and the specific disclosure of this information are already the keyword in terms of transparency. It cannot be replaced by the obligation for companies to maintain an up-to-date register of owners at their head office. The fact that an EU CSD Regulation would require such registration is justified. This is not the case, however, as Finland and a few other countries using the direct ownership system require an exemption as a CSD which would allow for the requirement of direct ownership. The answers received by the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Kaj Turunen, from the Commission support the view that Finland could continue to claim direct ownership. In Norway, this interpretation is also true. We should act, as has been done in Norway, provided that direct ownership continues. This is of paramount importance in the fight against the shadow economy and economic crime. In other words, the fight against the shadow economy and economic crime is particularly important and crucial. In Finland, the authorities have the possibility to obtain directly from the CSD the accounting information of the book-entry system for all investment instruments. This will give the police and other authorities, for example, the information they need to investigate bankruptcy or enforcement. For a foreign CSD, access to this information is not so straightforward. Now that the government wants to extend public authorities' rights to information and financial markets elsewhere in society and has made progress in other areas in terms of greater transparency, one might ask why we want to do the opposite in this particular case. To conclude, Madam President, when things are being prepared in a blurry way, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, was buried, said good-bye in the words of Foreign Minister Soin, and sworn to repeated statements by the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Turuse, there is no good that can come out of it. Mr President! I do not sing, but I say to Mr Turuse and the Finns: "It is a fun party for the people, that party for the Finns. When it promises the people, the consequences are miserable. This is how you turn your coat around, and this is how you turn your coat." Well, this time the jacket turned with the power of a Czech beer, so I guess there's a way to understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u57	It is now possible to have a debate on this issue. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u58	Mr President! I must say that Mrs Myllykoski had quite an understatement here today. [Department : Ohhh! ] First of all, Myllykoski’s speech gave the impression that the management registration was somehow accepted in Finland. Control registration is not accepted in Finland. It has not been adopted now and will not be adopted in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u59	Mr President! I am not going to take part in this kind of debate, but when I led the Committee on Economic Affairs for the last parliamentary term, which gave an opinion on the draft regulation, perhaps a few things should be recalled. First of all, that regulation was adopted during the last parliamentary term when the then government was a political group in charge of Finland. It was adopted during the last parliamentary term. [Heckling] The idea that we can prevent Finnish companies from offering shares abroad is simply not possible according to EU standards. This is the first thing. If anyone can prove that it can be prevented, then with great interest I too want to hear one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u60	Mr President! Representative Pekkarinen forgets that Finland negotiated an exception to this, which makes it possible to maintain the Finnish system here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u64	Madam President! There has been more than a year of discussion on this matter, and there has been an attempt to do everything within the Finnish Government and also within the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs to have transparent systems. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already wanted a negotiating mandate at EU level in 2012 for everyone to have an open book-entry system. It just doesn't work in different countries. It has not just been implemented in different countries, and we must try to move it forward. Mr Rinne was absolutely right when he said that there would be no control register — in Finland. But as previous speakers Pekkarinen and Turunen have already said, we cannot deny elsewhere what they think is right, but we can at least try to influence. And then to Mrs Myllykoski, when Mrs Myllykoski said that there was no criticism of the coercive measures, but the management register was criticised. Like I said, there will be no control register in Finland, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u65	Mr President! We are all wondering about this turn of events between Mr Turuse and the party he represents on this issue. This proposal, which is now under discussion, is the same content as you opposed at the end of last year, saying, among other things, that 'if Finland allows management registration through foreign countries, it will make it more difficult to resolve insider dealing and other financial crimes and to reduce tax certainty and fairness'. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u66	Madam President! Indeed, this EU Securities Market Regulation was discussed last season in the European Parliament and, as was heard here, the then government, in which the Christian Democrats were involved, wanted to negotiate this so-called Finland exemption. If one can ever say that a piece of legislation can take a bit of credit for itself, then I dare to take it, because my own assistant negotiated with the negotiator of the EPP group in the corridor at the time, and it was in the trilogue that this so-called Finland exception was introduced. This has made it possible for us in Finland to continue to have this direct ownership, but of course we cannot interfere in the legislation of other countries, and that is what we are trying to resolve here. Where, in my opinion, this government could have acted even more firmly, we should address the Finnish investor's obligation to provide information. In other words, this could have been better promoted. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u67	Madam President! It should be noted that this government proposal does not extend the use of the management register in Finland and, as has been heard here, [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u68	Mr President! The starting point here is that the Board of Directors will allow equity holdings to be hidden in the management register abroad with this proposal. As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I can criticise this reading and procedure in general for having been in committee for a year, and then, last week, it was brought to committee for approval by means of the decisions of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u71	Mr President! The fact is that the government legalises the management of Finnish ownership through foreign countries, i.e. concealing ownership, tax evasion and facilitating financial crime. A direct ownership requirement for Finnish investors abroad would also be possible under the derogation of the EU Regulation, and this has been interpreted in Norway, which requires Norwegian direct ownership also in foreign CSDs. — and inform the representatives that Norway is an EEA country under the same EU regulation as Finland. This was also the opinion of Mr Turunen last year, i.e. I would ask Mr Turusee what has changed here in a few months, when you are now interpreting differently. Now, Mr Turunen believes that these efforts will solve the problems caused by the management registration. But why were these legislative changes required by the effort not brought to the Committee on Economic Affairs during the course of the year? We had a year to make the legal changes required by the ponies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u72	Mr President! It would be desirable for all Member States of the European Union to have a uniform decision on these matters. If Finland is very different from the regulation of the capital markets, then it would be wise to look at what Sweden has done and to adapt to the solutions chosen by Sweden, because perhaps the closest option is capital between Sweden and Finland. What I do not understand in itself is how much damage is now being done here, but let me think about it and ask the Minister or Turuse: what happens when a Finnish company sets up a company in Estonia, owns a company, and this company operates on the capital market from Estonia, leaves profits in its account and uses dividends if not raised, even part of it for the purchase of new shares? What's going on here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u73	I will give the floor to Mr Skinner and Mr Turunen, and then the Minister's reply, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u74	Mr President! As has already been mentioned here, as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I saw this situation on the table very suddenly and, of course, Mr Turuse has to ask why. But, as has been said, this is a question of European law and how Finland interprets this regulation, and in particular Article 38(5) thereof. It is now the case that in the Ministry of Finance a certain group interprets it in a certain way, we interpret it in another way. This is the issue and ultimately the interest of Finland and how the Finnish model continues to evolve. But I am asking you, Minister, what are these hopes in practice? So if we now imagine that there is a withholding tax, less than 15% ownership, there is no need to report the recipient data at all, and then we do business before dividends are received, for example, in Great Britain, where there is a zero tax, and we buy back:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u75	Mr President! There are quite a few questions here, but I can now try to answer in one minute. First of all, for Mr Andersson: the loophole is blocked, that is what this is all about. Of course, there is a case here that public access to these will of course be reduced when a foreign CSD is used, but I think that the most important thing is for the tax authority to get that information. On the other hand, this other pony, which has now been called bad. I do not think it is bad at all, but we must now find out that we also get this information from abroad in such a way that it is equivalent to individualised storage, so that it is also public. We now come to the point where we need to find out whether it is possible that the information received by the tax authority could be public and, if so, this would be a good solution for this. Okay, now to this schedule. The big problem with this schedule is that we have to decide at least one thing about it and that is the licensing authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u76	Minister Orphan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u77	Mr President! In my opinion, at least in public debate, there are very many wrong ideas about what is now being decided. This debate, too, shows that, as it were at the moment, this has become a blur on a number of issues. But the big picture that legislation in Finland is somehow changing is wrong. In Finland, the system will remain almost similar with this law. There will be no control register in Finland. It was in the original proposal then in 2015, but then after consultation with Parliament, after a public debate, it has been removed, which I thought was wise. Finland's open system, i.e. this Finland's exception model, will remain, and we will continue to see the owner information through the book-entry account system. But why are we giving this show now? We don't have a choice. We belong to the European Union and it is our duty to bring European legislation into national law. And why the special rush right now? This is because our CSD — the one that operates in Finland — has been suspended in the autumn and must be granted a new authorisation and can only be granted in accordance with the revised EU legislation. So now we have the last moments, which is why we need to move this forward. I can't bear to comment on all the things that have been going on here. As rapporteur, I believe that this must now be brought forward, which is also in the interest of Finland's economy and employment. So this has changed the presentation, does not include a management register. We are not making legal, as has been said here in the debate, investment abroad, the use of a management register: it comes from EU legislation, the 2014 regulation. It comes from there, we do not change practices here, it is European legislation, we do not make legal. This is something I have made sure of today from our officials and experts that this is not the case, [ Hustles from the left] Since this well-known problem has been the use of these foreign management registers, I therefore believe that these efforts, which have now been made, are an excellent solution, so that those holdings which are not personal data will be subject to the withholding tax at which 30% of the working title has been used — this preparation is already very much on the move. They come within the scope of the withholding tax, which in practice makes it unprofitable even to do so. And so I do not believe, and we do not believe that this possibility will be used, even if the EU environment makes it possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u78	Well, there seems to be still some need for debatation, so we will take another debatation round here, and it will be started by Mrs Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u79	Mr President! The problem with this government proposal is that, at the moment, when it is not legal without direct ownership to invest in foreign management registers, it is now possible through the change in this system. This is the reason why the police, the prosecution authorities believe that the possibility of tax evasion is increasing, the possibility of money laundering is increasing, the possibility of concealing assets is increasing and the resolution of insider situations is becoming more difficult. Answer Mr Orpo, to that question by Mr Skinner, what will happen if we use this property through London to sell back and forth what will happen to our withholding tax then? This government proposal makes it legal for a Finnish owner to invest in a management register abroad, thus circumventing taxes, allowing money laundering and concealing property.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u80	Mr President! In my opinion, when Mr Rinne said here that this government proposal makes it possible for someone to even export capital and act from abroad, if I have the right idea, it is already the status quo. Everyone is free to go, as Mr Lehti says.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u82	Mr President! Congressman Turunen, the loophole is precisely not blocked. This proposal will allow Finnish investors to use the management register through foreign CSDs, which means that the only thing that has changed since the end of last year is the position of the Finns on this presentation and the subject. As far as these statements are concerned, the government would indeed have had one year to prepare for these changes and bring them here. It has not been done, but policies are being introduced in the form of these statements, the main function of which is to make this matter look less embarrassing to those government parties that, six months ago, were still opposed to this same motion with a loud voice. The fact is, too, that this project has been run for a long time in certain influential circles in Finland. I remember at the beginning of the parliamentary term when this same regulation sought to convince us that it would force us to make it possible and legalize the management register also in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u83	President! In this very debate, there has been no comment at all that the VM has, in fact, announced today at half past two o'clock that, on the basis of the statements made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have already started preparing this supplementary legislation, Chief of Staff. It's the Hetemäki. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u84	Mr President! It was even said here by the Assembly that there is no problem in this proposal. Now you might want to look at those who have the euro at stake. For example, Finnish retail investors — they are opposed to this project by the Finnish Confederation of Sharesavers. In this case, I trust them more when they say that there is no problem. But, Mr President, what is this all about? This is ultimately about the fact that in the spending limits debate on the summer beach, the government agreed that ownership could be hidden through foreign countries, and it was already being tried to hide it. The agreement on this decision was not announced, was not mentioned, was not discussed — it just appeared on the committee's list. Now the question is, and now what has been the price of harmony has been left in the dark. Is the price of harmony, Mr Turunen, only that the Finns of Peru are allowed to remain in the government if you accept this dim register? As far as this Norwegian model is concerned:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u85	We'll hold on to our speaking time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u86	Mr President! Maybe one more time I'll say, I, too, opposed the plans that were then for the management register in 2012 and 2015 as well. In the 2015 model, the Finland exemption was not inside, but here it is. There will be no control register in Finland. I have already seen that the opposition has already said that this is the way it is. And it's a good thing. This allows Finland to be able to operate abroad. When Mr Rinne says that this could have been prevented: This is an EU standard, an act contained in an EU regulation. And the EU regulation, no matter what we are doing here, is mandatory for us in Finland for legislation to enter into force. This is what I have learned in decades when we have been members of the European Union. In addition to this, it is worth noting the change that this will bring. Currently, in Finland, when you use foreign investment firms, you can actually own management registered assets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u89	Mr President! Just as has been heard here, so it has not been possible to regulate the foreign management registers from Finland to date and, on the other hand, there have been investors in Finland who wanted to use them. But we in Finland should now focus first and foremost on the fact that we are able to specifically oblige these investors to provide information on where they have invested and through which system. In short, there is not so much at the heart of this issue as the form in which it is administered — whether it is direct or whether it is a management register — but it is information, it is access to public information and it is information to the tax authority. They are the two most important elements that should be able to be secured, and that is why I criticised these government contributions. These are a little loosely written. It is a good thing that today we have announced that these legislative projects will be promoted, but this second effort could have been written a little bit more firmly, and I will try to do that in my own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u90	Mr President! One of the basic principles of the EU is the free movement of capital, and the investment market is a global activity, and of course Finland wants to be involved in it. But, of course, transparency and transparency are our values that we want to promote in all administration and activities. In no other EU country is this transparency procedure for public access to the public in this activity other than ours. We want to keep it, but of course we need to think about what is the best solution for Finland's economy and tax receivables and how to secure it. It has now been wondered that suddenly this motion came to the Committee on Economic Affairs, after a long time of preparation and trying to take it forward, that it has suddenly come to pass. Instead, it would probably not have come suddenly to the opposition if there had not been a functioning securities market centre in Finland in the autumn, or a challenge to EU law that the EU regulation has not been pushed forward. We'll have to take action if we're going to be able to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u91	Mr President! The starting point here is that the government has specifically wanted to act in the way it has proposed and, of course, it also puts you, Mr Orpo, in a somewhat awkward position. In fact, when your predecessor drove this project to its fullest and then twice gave it up, you, as the then police minister, were responsible for what your house was proposing. The Central Crime Police, together with the Money Laundering Investigation Centre, said that this proposal would make it easier to afford money laundering and conceal the proceeds of crime, and this group also said that this is a bad presentation from the point of view of combating terrorism. However, it is quite interesting that we are now in a situation where you want to contribute to this moral weakening effect as a new finance minister and you want to force it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u92	Mr President! Although the chairman of the committee, Mr Turunen, tried to turn our attention to the excellent taste of Czech beer at the beginning of the presentation, these long explanations and the opening do not convince us here on the left. Just as prosecutors, police, European parliamentarian Sirpa Pietikäinen and many others have said, this is quite the opposite of where we should go in the world: public access, transparency, transparency. And what happened a week ago? Even before Christmas, Mr Turunen said that he had even been threatened face to face with divorce if he did not go through the will of the assembly. What happened at this point, was there another threat, and what was in the merchandise? Mr Orpo, if you now so openly praise these statements in this report, which are far too loose in our eyes, why did you not do so during the process?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u93	Mr President! I think it's a good idea to take it from here. This is now a question of a shady register which, under obscure circumstances, appeared on the committee's table. That is what happened, no matter what you say, the government parties. It is now obvious that this issue has been on the agenda of the spending limits debate, and it is silly: it is then quickly pushed through — a backward reform that makes tax evasion possible. Unfortunately, I find the question very topical here: What did the people of Peru get from this turn of the coat? Was it all you got, that you were allowed to stay in the government? Or what happened here, when such a miraculous cow trade has been vaguely carried out in the spending limits bar, that is certainly what is at stake. Unfortunately, Mr President, it now seems that the vote will decide what we want to do, and then the Finns of Finland will come up with arguments for it. I don't think it's any good where we're going.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u94	I will give the following answers to the representatives of Jaskari, Turunen and Lindtman, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u95	Mr President! It has been said here in a speech by a number of opposition representatives, such as Mr Ojala-Niemela and Mr Uotila, that there is a desire to move in an open direction elsewhere. One can say that Finland has always wanted to go in an open direction
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u98	Mr President! On the other hand, I am rather surprised that the left-wing union is now so strongly criticised. In my opinion, it is legislation which is a strong text, a statement in the report which says that 'the Parliament requires the Government to take action' and so on. [HannaSarkkinkäytä]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u99	Mr President! We here at the SDP are used to having a word. We don't have to argue about this. I've got black and white here. The chairman of the committee, Mr Turunen, said last December that Finland does not need and does not want to change the law so that ownership can be hidden in the management register abroad. That is what you said. As far as these wishes are concerned, the big T would have liked, if you yourself believed in them, you would have brought this into the legislation already this year, but now, at the last minute, this is coming. The essential thing is that this was decided in the twilight of the spending limits and that information was withheld. That information was kept a secret, and it just appeared here in Parliament. Mr Turunen, you do not answer the question: What kind of cow trade is this, after you've changed your opinion 180 degrees in just a few months? What is the price the Finns paid? Is that the price you get to continue with the government? There has been no response to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u100	I think it is reasonable to give a reply to Mr Turuse and then take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u101	Mr President! Let me make it quite clear that nothing has been decided in any of the dark. The frame bar is not a shady place. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u104	Now for the Minister's speech. Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u105	Mr President! First of all I have to say that I think this kind of cow trade and some shady deal now are not such good arguments, because we should deal with the matter ourselves. After all, when the government is assembled, the government parties are going through the matters on the table. There's nothing special about that either. You're just trying to paint this and make it look a lot more problematic when, in fact, what you're talking about,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u110	Then we will take one more debatable round, and it will be started by Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u111	Mr President! This withholding tax is now entirely a figment of Mr Turuse's imagination and I would like to think that it was invented in the Czech pub in the morning. But seriously, the push requires that the government do the opposite of what is now going through. Even in the best fantasy world, this imaginary withholding tax would only come into force much later than the law itself, which means that the loophole has not been blocked when this law enters into force until this fantastic withholding tax has been prepared. The second question, which is important, is that this proposal is totally against the will and policy of the EU. It is at this very moment that negotiations are being held on the extension of the Money Laundering Directive so that the final beneficiary is fully and fully visible throughout Europe. So to make sure, Minister Orpo, when this law takes Finland in a different direction, is Finland in favour of comprehensive, full public access to the owners' register and is actively and publicly active in favour of such an EU agenda?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u112	Mr President! I would like to congratulate the opposition on the fact that you have well-inspired the image of the government doing something shady and favouring money laundering or tax evasion or so on. No matter how it is said here that this regulation is binding and this has to be done and the management register does not come to Finland and already the current state, as the nature of the EU requires that money and capital move within the EU, it does nothing here, because this truth is going to happen as in Vladimir Vysotski's song Truth and lie that the truth stays on the street naked and lies go on Facebook. It's a really bad culture like this. I believe that the government has acted with great responsibility on this issue. There will be no administrative register, and there is nothing we can do about it, that if some want to evade taxes and take their money to tax havens and elsewhere, no law in Finland can prevent it. We must recognise these facts, and the only way that this can be prevented is that when a dividend is released from the company it is taxed and then they apply to the tax authority for tax and exemption, if that is theirs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u113	Mr President! I must say now that it is rather corny that the Coalition Party now speaks for the transparency of ownership. When just over a year ago you wanted to bring the management register to Finland as well, you now speak for the transparency of ownership. The same officials from the Ministry of Finance, who now say that Finland has to release the management registration abroad, said just over a year ago that Finland is forced to allow the management registration also in Finland. You will understand that, after these speeches, these turnarounds, confidence is not very high at the moment. But, Mr President, why were these legislative changes in line with the positions not brought to Parliament's approval already in this context? You had a year to do it. It is a very bad situation that we are now giving birth to these loopholes and expressing the hope that perhaps sometime in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u114	Mr President! Yes, I am interested in what bait the people of Peru swallowed, that they were prepared to change this position, that until now it was opposed and now it is supported, and with such a fast schedule it will be taken forward. [Kaj Turuse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u115	Mr President! Mr Harakka said quite strongly that withholding tax is a figment of the imagination of the chairman of the committee, Mr Turuse. Today, at 1:32 p.m., the Ministry of Finance's announcement is that it has begun to prepare the legislation required by the statement for a withholding tax. I hope that when it comes to Parliament, Mr Harakka will ask for this withholding tax. [Department: from Turku!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u116	One more response, Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u117	We've started preparing, we've been notified. Do you really mean that at the same time as this foreign management registration is possible in Finland, we also have a law on withholding tax that is perhaps 30, maybe 50? So far, it has not even been said how many percent. Until then, it will be a figment of imagination until it is in force, and it is absolutely certain that there will be a situation here for some months, if not years, in which this loophole will certainly exist, when another law is in force and the other, which is not yet known, has certainly not yet entered into force. Moreover, there is no good tax practice for such a summarised withholding tax, which is in any case too high. This will result in those who are then subject to this high withholding tax being allowed to request a refund from the Finnish tax authority. This brings more work and crafts and more effort. We must strive for proper taxation, for the right size of taxation, without any loopholes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u118	Mr President! Referring to Mr Jaskari’s speech in Finland, there are parties that are committed to the transparency of ownership, and they can be found on the left side of this hall. The present opposition parties played a key role in ensuring that Finland was able to negotiate an exemption to this regulation which would allow the model of direct ownership to be maintained in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u121	Mr President! I have just asked the Minister what will happen if and when things are recycled through, for example, London. Mr Rinne also asked the same question in his own speech. So I'm gonna ask you again. What happens when John Smith buys from London and then sells back to Finland? As a result, Finland loses tax revenue on dividends and the Finnish investor also avoids this proposed 50% dividend tax. How can you, Minister, avoid this? Secondly, as a lawyer, I would like to say that the proposal, which has been written in an absurdly confusing way, will be interpreted in Helsinki and in Finland as a whole and perhaps in Europe a lot of lawyers, they will have a lot of work to do. And what does this cost Finnish companies to finance companies, and what are the costs? And there are also real mistakes in this performance, so I'm gonna ask you one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u122	Mr President! Here this change of heart has been wondered, and yes I, Mr Turunen, will find that if your explanation now believes, it is just a general matter. This is a common basic Finnish way of turning the coat, whether it is a Greek subsidy or a gas tax or a tax on taxi liberalisation and — hops — a management register. I do think, Mr President, that this could be opened up now, this debate on the spending limits, but quite honestly and openly, in the way that trade has taken place in the spending limits debate, so that the Finns of Finland, who were fanatically opposed to the management register a moment ago, are now in the process of adopting it, and even in the process of developing it, how good things have been going. Then, Mr President, to this end, I have to say, Mr Jaskari and the partners: at 1:32 p.m. today we have started to prepare. You would have had a year to prepare, a year to make these go hand in hand,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u123	Then we will reply to the representatives of Jaskari and Lindtman, followed by the Minister's reply, and then to the list of speakers. — Mr Jaskari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u124	Mr President! I would actually have asked Mr Skinner when you were talking about the financial costs of companies. Now, of course, the big question is that if there were even stricter attempts to ban what was not possible in the regulations, would there have been a situation in which a Finnish company, for example, which invests in Germany, would not have been able to obtain funding from Germany, which is a control-registration book-entry centre because it is prohibited? And can this affect Finnish funding, when we have a clearly different system, weakeningly even now? Of course, we should have had the objective of being open to everyone, but when it did not become possible to have a uniform model across Europe, so that the cost of financing would not be different. But what does this model have to do with the cost of companies' financing and access to money?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u125	Mr President! Here the government parties have suggested that the opposition would invent these loopholes. This is not the handwriting of the opposition. A lot of authorities, a lot of cops. [Department :Sirpa Pietikäinen! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u130	Minister Orphan for 3 minutes and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u131	Mr President! Congressman Lindtman, I appreciate your rhetorical skill, but that had nothing to do with this matter we're dealing with, you're making up great stories. We had to get this thing off the table because our Securities Center needs the law in the fall. We have negotiated, we have found ways forward with these efforts. There is no mysticism, it is a normal legislative work done by the government parties in Finland, at least so far. I admit that the government parties are negotiating,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u134	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u135	Mr President! The bill makes it possible for Finns to register ownership through foreign CSDs. The registration of ownership means that instead of the real owner and the beneficiary, the holder of the security is recorded as an intermediary, i.e. an account manager, in practice, for example a bank. The registration of ownership poses problems as it can create long ownership chains in which the actual owner of the security drowns. This means that the management registration can hide the real owner. But why do they want to hide the real owner and beneficiary? There may be many reasons, and they are illegal: tax evasion, insider dealing, money laundering. Management registers can also be used legally so that the investor’s taxes and other obligations are properly managed. However, the problem with allowing management registration is that it facilitates the concealment of ownership and that legal activity is largely dependent on goodwill. Even if the user of the management register makes the correct payment of taxes, the level of public access is reduced when the final owners of the shares are not public and known to all. The reduction in transparency makes it difficult, for example, for journalists and researchers, as well as for the police and prosecutors. The register has heated emotions in Parliament many times already. The previous Finance Minister, Mr Stubb, was also in favour of allowing ownership registration in Finland. Stubb was caught telling alternative truths about the matter and found that the management register was buried and buried in all its forms. The bill now on the table is partly different from the one that Stubb fell into, but the management register is all the same. The present proposal does not allow Finns to register their holdings in Finland, but it is allowed through foreign countries. The management register is now being posted to Finland through the kitchen. The opposition parties in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposed that the bill be rejected and sent back to the preparation process, in which loopholes allowing for the concealment of ownership would be blocked. The bill should be amended so that Finns would be required to have direct ownership of Finnish shares even when securities have been issued elsewhere than in Finland. A clear ban and punishment should therefore be imposed on Finnish management registration. The orphan says that Finland is obliged to enable Finnish ownership to be registered abroad because of EU regulations. However, Finland has negotiated an exemption for the EU Securities Regulation which allows for the preservation of direct ownership. There is no obligation on the orphan to allow management registration, but it is an interpretation of EU regulations. Norway, as an EEA country, is subject to the same EU regulation as Finland, and Norway interprets EU regulation in such a way that it may require Norwegians to be allowed to own Norwegian securities only by direct ownership in the future and also in the event of ownership through a foreign CSD. If Norway can claim direct ownership also in the case of foreign CSDs, Finland may also do so. It is therefore pointless to hide behind the EU. Finland should hold onto the model of direct ownership with claws and teeth and market it to others as well. Mr President! The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Kaj Turunen of the Finns Party has in the past consistently and strongly opposed the authorisation of management registration and has worked hard to prevent the possibility of opening up management registration. However, something in the middle row caused the heads of the Finns of Peru to change, for now the same bill is good enough for them. The Finns believe that the statements recorded in the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy are sufficient to ensure public access to ownership. These statements express the hope to the government that it will start further preparation for the authorisation of management registration in order to close the loopholes that have been created. The content of the statements is fine, although loose, but the problem is that they are statements and not legislative changes. The bill lay in the Committee on Economic Affairs for over a year, when the government parties were unable to agree on it. During the year's expectation, additional legislative changes could have been introduced to the Parliament in order to close loopholes allowing tax evasion and financial crime. With all due respect, I personally cannot believe that the finance department of the Ministry of Finance, which has been enthusiastic about the management registration, would be very busy preparing the legislative proposals required by the statements, but I hope I am wrong. The increased withholding tax on management registered holdings required in Declaration 1 would certainly be a step in the right direction. However, it should be noted that the increased withholding tax does not necessarily decide, for example, whether to ensure public access or to combat financial crime. It is also difficult to collect withholding tax if funds are transferred through management registers to bank accounts located in tax havens or otherwise to circumvent it. It is also difficult to see how the law can guarantee the level of publicity required by Declaration 2 at the level of direct ownership if the ownership is chained to management registers. In any event, the legislative changes required by the statements should have been brought before Parliament at the same time as these other changes under discussion, in order to assess the overall picture from the point of view of the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime, public access and transparency. Mr President! The management registers and the chaining and concealing of ownership are a barrier to a healthy and functioning economy. The tax authority does not receive the relevant tax revenues, the market does not function properly when information is not available, the secret allows financial crime and free media does not have access to owner information. Finland and the EU should move towards comprehensive transparency of ownership, and the management registers will lead us in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u136	Mr President! It is a pity that only one representative of the Assembly is in the Chamber and that the chairman of the committee, Mr Turunen, is not here, because now is the time to discuss European law and also its future. The truth is that Finland worked hard to preserve this model of direct ownership and succeeded in doing so. As I said earlier, it is a question of paragraph 38 of this regulation and its interpretation. This year, in March, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) published a “Questions and Answers” documentation, which, among other things, commenting on paragraph 38 as follows — and here is a quote in English: “Those who do not have individual accounts on offer must provide them from the moment that a CSD operating on the market has received a new authorisation without a transitional period. The estimate for this is the second quarter of 2018. " The Finnish model, the model of direct ownership, is the future, Mr President. Why, then, does the government now want to scrap this model, this efficient system, just as the rest of Europe is heading for Finland? Who drives this show so hard when you don't have to do anything? These matters of European law are not interpreted by civil liability, but ultimately the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg determines what is legal and what is illegal. All in all, this is a very confusingly written presentation that requires more and more lawyers to interpret. There are even a lot of mistakes in the performance. Sometimes I wonder who actually wrote this. Why is the proposal only talking about access to information relating to shares and shares, which is about EUR 200 billion, when the authorities are now informed about all types of the book-entry system, which are of a size of EUR 350 billion? Is it true that the Ministry of Finance wants to change the law on limited liability companies because large owners do not just want to publicise their holdings? Overall, there is a total lack of impact assessments. It is currently estimated that EUR 600 million is the share of the informal economy in investment activities. How much will it be in the future? How do non-tax authorities obtain information on investors’ holdings? What will all of this cost Finland in the end? Mr President, just a few words about these hopes. As I said, a pony is just a wish. What is actually being prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and how does this affect the issue of withholding tax in practice? As I said during the debate as an example, if and when transactions are made just before the dividend is distributed to a country with a zero-percent tax — for example, the United Kingdom — and then bought back, Finland will lose tax revenue on dividends and a Finnish investor will avoid the proposed 50% dividend tax. Easy and fast in today's digital world. All in all, withholding tax is a problematic issue. If only the country of residence has to be declared, as is often the case, how do we ultimately know who ultimately exercises that authority?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u137	Mr President! The register has become Finnish political eternal movements, and the twists around the question have taken on some of the strangest features. That is why this question needs to be given some background, even though this proposal currently under discussion does not include the authorisation of a management register in Finland. Many powerful financial actors have long been pushing for the possibility of managing registration here too in the home country. This would mean giving up the current model of direct ownership, which guarantees both public authorities and the media, for example, the possibility of clearing stock ownership data and thus also of interfering in the black economy. In the past, for example, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, justified the introduction of a management register in Finland by the fact that this same EU regulation, which now allows the government to propose amendments to national legislation, would have meant that Finland too would have had to abandon its model of direct ownership. However, this was not the case. After massive opposition and criticism, the government gave up its intention to expand the management register in Finland. At a press conference in early December 2015, Stubb stated: "We will not re-prepare the management register in any form. The control register is buried and buried. It will not be imported during this reign." It took six months and the control record came back from the dead again. At the time, the proposal before us was announced, in which management registration is therefore possible for Finnish investors through the value centres of foreign investors. Once again, it is claimed that the EU Regulation does not allow this loophole to be blocked — despite the fact that the previous Finnish government negotiated an exemption to the Regulation in order to maintain exactly the model of direct ownership, and despite the fact that Norway, for example, has announced that it interprets the CSD Regulation as meaning that the requirement for direct ownership of investors is also valid when Norwegians invest in the value shares of Norwegian companies issued in other countries. However, the strangest of all is the full turn of the Finnish Government Party in relation to this dim register. It does raise the question of what has been the trade within the government, which means that the party has been prepared to completely change its position on this proposal with the same content. At the end of last year Kaj Turunen, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, said: "If Finland allows management registration through foreign countries, it makes it difficult to resolve insider dealing and other financial crimes and reduces tax certainty and fairness." Timo, Chairman of the Finns Party Soini, on the other hand, has written in connection with the management register: "It is worth noting the bad reforms." Now, however, the Finns of Peru are allowing just the same kind of motion to be taken forward, which will facilitate the concealment of equity holdings and thus tax evasion. So the only thing that has changed in the past six months is the position of the Finns on the matter under discussion. The timing of the presentation also raises questions. The government will bring this extremely controversial proposal right after the municipal elections. The government did not mention it in a word when it reviewed the solutions reached in the mid-term debate, despite the fact that this matter was then negotiated, as Mr Orpo confirmed today. After about six months on the table, the bill appeared on the committee's agenda just under the middle line. In spite of all this, the statements have not been prepared, even if the government has had the opportunity to do so over a whole year. Public access to property would be extremely important, especially now that this same government is also carrying out the largest market-based public services project in Finnish history in connection with social welfare and regional reform. Contrary to the criticisms made by experts, more than 10 billion tax-funded markets in Finnish social and health care are being secured. And even now, in the preparatory phase of the reform, attention has been drawn to how many of those in influential political positions have moved directly to the payroll of these large health groups to liquidate the economic benefits of future reforms. If the transparency of company ownership information becomes less transparent, how will it be possible to explore the links or relationships between different decision-makers and owners in the future? What, then, is the solution of the opposition? As pointed out in the joint protest of opposition parties, Finland should follow the example of Norway and apply the derogation it negotiates for the regulation itself so that the proposal is returned to its preparation and re-imported by legislative changes which oblige a Finnish investor to use a foreign book-entry system for investing in a direct account or similar arrangement that allows him to be identified as owner. Information on ownership must be available to the issuer company and Finnish authorities. This would preserve the model of direct and open ownership also in foreign CSDs and reflect the direction in which regulation in the financial markets is being developed at European Union level all the time, albeit far too slowly. Like the stock savers In connection with this proposal, which is now under discussion, the Central Union has stated that Finland is heading in the direction that the rest of Europe wants to move away from.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u138	Mr President! Firstly, about what Vice-President Pekkarinen said that he could already own Finnish shares using the foreign management register, my strong impression is that it would be a big headline in the afternoon papers because he would be guilty of illegality. I consider this unintentionally to be a misuse of truth, but in most places the management register, the money-hiding law, is an issue in which the government has been more difficult than usual to stay in the truth. The following was said in this Chamber on 26 November 2015: “One is the CSD Regulation, which needs to be implemented, and one of its components is the management registry system. The authorities to which you referred just now criticised the system we have today. If we look at these statements, about 90% of the opinions are actually positive." The speaker was then Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb, who had to apologize, or at least sorry, for avoiding the truth. The first attempt to hide Finnish funds in the management register also fell into it. On 1 December 2015, the following was heard: "We will not re-prepare the management register in any form. The control register is buried and buried. It will not be imported during this reign." Again, Minister Stubb. But it took three months, and the management register returned to Parliament in "any form". Again, the truth proved to be an overwhelming adversary to the government. However, the government itself does not like the management register: "It is worth noting the bad reforms." From the words of the Chairman of the Finns Party, Timo Soin, it could be concluded that the management register is not moving forward, but in this regard too the truth slipped out of the hands of the government. The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Kaj Turunen, has said on several occasions that he himself has explained from the EU Commission that Finland can make the derogations it has negotiated. "Finland needs to support the share company law,that ownership could be hidden in the management register What is significant is that the same night he told the Finnish Broadcasting Company that the Coalition Party had threatened to fire him from his mission. Congressman Harri Jaskari denied the information. Again, it is impossible to say who will remain in the truth or whether anyone will. Well now, with the brightest eyes of Turunen, the motion is accepted when the government decided to do so. What was the cost of a sudden translation has been asked many times in this Chamber. Was it an experiment of Swedish choice? For once, it would be nice to hear the truth, the whole truth, and just the truth. Mr President! On 16 June 2016 Mr Turunen asked in Helsingin Sanomat: "Why would secrecy be allowed when it is banned today? Why would Finland now allow ownership to be hidden abroad when international publicity of ownership is also being opened?"
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u141	Mr President! By way of exception, I have wanted to speak on this matter, mainly because I was the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs during the last parliamentary term, when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy issued an opinion — even once and for all — on the regulation which was being discussed at the time, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, when I was a minister at the Ministry of Trade and Industry or the Ministry of the Economy — I do not remember which one I was then — on the other hand, this MiFID directive, which, on the other hand, governs these investment firms. When I remember this history, in fact, this is where I think it is appropriate to take a little reflection in this context. To begin with, if Finland were a community of its own, we would not have to care about the rest of the world if there were a system in which Finns could invest only in shares issued by Finnish companies in Finland, so that all these investments would be in a personal book-entry account with complete transparency, and could have remained and would not have had to open the door to any reforms, European or global reforms at any time, then that would be where we would be and perhaps succeed — perhaps we would have been successful. But the world has changed a lot around us in the past two decades, and that opportunity, which I described, is obviously no longer true today. The second observation relates to the fact that when I heard, for example, the opinion of Professor Rothovius, the chairman of the Association of Shareholders, about this issue, he had the message that when Europe was generally seeking transparency in these matters, Finland would somehow go in a different direction. That is what Mr Skinner said in his speech. Is this how it is? I do not think that at all, on the contrary, the European Union, when it adopted such a regulation a few years ago, in 2014, went in exactly the wrong direction. I find it quite extraordinary to try to say that Europe is going in some open direction in this matter, in a more open direction than we Finns were or what we Finns want, how we Finns want the content of this regulation to be put into practice. That is not the case. In this respect, this model, which is now under discussion, is much better than the European standard that Europe has built for the rest of Europe here. Mr President! Actually, without going through the current system even further... Well, perhaps even before that, I was absolutely opposed to the plans that were then in progress in 2012 for the construction of the European Governance Register. And even 2015: I thought that the present proposal, which was prepared by the current government, was not a good one, and I think I said clearly in one of the programmes that I did not support the arrangement that was included in the bill. [Requests for reply] I believe that three things are essential in the changes that have been made since 2015 in this proposal or in the report of the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs: The first important point is that this proposal now has this derogation from Finland. Thank you to Antti Rinte, if it was thanks to him, or to the previous government at all, for sticking to it, and also to Mrs Essayah in the EU for getting this done, this Finland exception, into that regulation. And now, in practice, in this proposal, which we have before us, it is inside: there will not be a management register in Finland according to the content of the legislation that the European management register actually contains. [Li Andersson's interlude] Another important point is this investment abroad — is it possible or not? In this respect, the EU regulation is very clear. If there are representatives in this Chamber who are able to say that, at this time when Finland has been a member of the European Union, we could have gone against the regulations adopted by the EU, that we would not have adopted the norm in our own national legislation that the European Union has decided at regulation level that we could just refuse it, please tell us. I can hear very carefully if there are such examples. I do not know that there are any — I am not sure if there is, but I am sure that if there is, then the sanctions procedure has certainly been carried out. Without sanctions, the EU will not accept that. Secondly, as far as the issue is concerned, even here in the previous speech, it was said that it is now possible to hide from the tax authorities and so on: Finland has tax agreements with all the key countries, where investment here in practice may be possible. And if the Finnish tax authority wishes to obtain more detailed information, it will receive the corresponding information from the tax office of its counterpart country. Or if a Finnish person is suspected of committing a crime, such as an inside crime, then the Finnish financial supervision is entitled to cooperate with the financial supervision or similar authority of the country of the opposing party. Also for criminal cases, mainly for insider offences, Finnish authorities receive information from abroad if there is reason to suspect an inside crime or the like. These are the points on this issue. I remember when, even at the time of the May Day, Mr Rinne was seen in the public eye telling us that the obligations of this regulation are so easily circumvented, I think it is a little surprising, but that is all I am saying. If I were quite a representative not to be in that position as Vice-President, I could say a little more, but of course I am not saying any more than was said here. That is another point I wanted to draw attention to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u142	Apparently, there was a need to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u143	Mr President! First of all, to this Degiro, I would like to comment that this is not from my own head but from Vero.fi,Encourage Tax Instructions :In the guidance on ex ante inheritances,the management registered domestic share creation confirms that the management registration has already been denied to Finnish investors. It is therefore not allowed in these Degiro cases either, excerpt from paragraph 3 under the heading 'Administration of Components'. — This is from Degiro. But then to this situation in Europe: Yes, at least among us social democrats in Europe, there is a strong desire to increase the model of direct ownership, and that is now also for Mr Pekkarinen's information. This is the work we are doing, and we believe that this is also the future of Europe. But why do we not have this dialogue with the European Commission in the Ministry of Finance? At least that feeling has become. Congressman Turunen has been active, as we know. We Social Democrats have been active, but why are our officials not active in such a matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u144	Mr Pekkarinen put in a bit of a question about creating the impression that Finland is acting in a completely different way from the rest of the European community. But it is precisely the case that there has been a major historical turnaround since 2015, that is to say, the legislation that is now being implemented in Finland is the old EU which, in a sense, has realised that this cannot be done, and that tax collection and fairness must also be taken care of. 2015 was therefore this OECD report, this famous BEPS, the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, and in January 2016 this historic translation of the Commission and the Council also took place on this issue towards a more rigorous interpretation of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. In particular, Panama papers then made the Finnish government suddenly appear as an enemy of tax evasion. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u145	Mr President! If the European Union, by its own actions, comes to about what Finland was trying to achieve, then at least I would very much welcome it. It is highly desirable that this should happen. As far as your comment on the case law is concerned, Mr Skinner, I too will say that that is exactly what it is. With regard to the CSD and with regard to the account manager bank, the national standard is unambiguously clear, but we have not been able to prevent this chaining. Through a community such as Degiro, an investment firm, we can't stop it — I don't know about it. I had quite a few discussions with lawyers on this issue, and I have at least not found out that it can be prevented, unfortunately. Let us hope that the European Union will change its behaviour at European level in such matters. At least I believe that this would be widely welcomed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u146	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u147	Mr President! It has been interesting to listen to this debate about the way in which, at the end of Finland, there have been European directives and the actual regulation, among other things, when, as I mentioned in the debate, I actually looked at it from the perspective of the European Parliament. Indeed, in accordance with the Government's line of action at the time, in which the KD was involved, a great deal of work was done to get this paragraph 38, which is referred to as the 'Finland exception'. As I described in the debate, it was at the very least, could you say, hectic and difficult situation in which the trilogues attempted to get that design inside. That is why I know that it is certainly not a good formulation or one that would have been, could say, simple and easy to enter into EU legislation, but it was the only thing that could have been put there, because the danger was that we would not even be in this situation today, but that the Securities Regulation could have simply banned the direct accounts as a whole and we would have come, as many large EU countries drove, just this management register system that they have at their disposal there. Perhaps it is good to remember in the debate that management registers, that is, in other EU countries, are indeed the status quo. It is not something that is now being created by this regulation, but, in fact, Finland struggled to preserve this system of its own. Perhaps it is also good to say that this is not a dream situation for Finland at the moment either. This system of ours is leaking. Let's be honest, our system is leaking right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u150	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 28 April 2017 and the debate is now continuing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-02-ps-46.u151	Mr President! The 40th National Park is under way and the opening is 17th. President of the Republic Sauli Niinistö and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This is the centenary of independence, a great project, and I have been speaking on behalf of Hossa National Park from the beginning. There were other options, and they were also good alternatives, but Hossa was undoubtedly the best. There's local support, business support, municipal support. Kainuu is an area where such tourism and business recreation projects are needed. One euro for national parks brings EUR 10 back to local industry. I have been in this Chamber to open this debate, and I am also happy to conclude it. - Thank you.
