ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u2	Congressman Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u3	Mr President! In September, the SDP published a 23-point programme to prevent international tax evasion. It was timely, as has been revealed this week, namely, Paradise papers show that the concealment of property continues and takes billions of euros from good public services. During the previous government, Finland was a pioneer in the fight against tax evasion. Among other things, then Minister Urpilainen convened the first EU ministerial meeting on tax evasion. Minister Rinne signed a tax information exchange agreement, which came into force this year. The Sipilä government, on the other hand, promoted the hiding of property in the management registers even twice. The last Question Time showed that tax increases imposed on tax evasion are being calculated. Now, Minister Orpo, the key question is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u4	Mr President! It is not at all true that the Finnish Government is in any way passive in preventing aggressive tax planning or tax evasion. We have continued the good work that has already been done during the last term of government. We are actively working for it in international arenas, globally, in the OECD, within the EU and at home, that we are able to get every tax euro that is due to Finnish taxpayers or to their benefit paid to Finland. We are involved in all the measures that are being taken around the world within the OECD, what is being done in Europe, and we bring them into domestic legislation. In addition, we ensure that in Finland the tax authorities, who are otherwise good at their work, have sufficient resources to ensure that taxation is implemented and to intervene in criminal activities. There's nothing unclear about this. We want taxes to be paid to Finland, the taxes that belong to the Finnish tax authorities and thus to the benefit of taxpayers. And by the way, I think,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u6	Mr President! These explanations have been heard before, Minister Orpo. Unfortunately, the facts speak for themselves quite differently. For example, last summer an EU directive on the fight against money laundering and terrorism was implemented. At the time, the SDP called for greater transparency, i.e. that the beneficial owners should be informed if they own 10% of a particular company. What did the Finnish Government do? You were driving a looser line, hiding and a lower limit of 25%. It's true. It's a language of its own. At the same time, the directive on money laundering and the fight against terrorism was being reformed again. In this context, the European Commission and the European Parliament have also made the same statement as the Social Democrats. This is one part of our package of measures. So I ask you, Minister: is this hand-out of the SDP good enough for you? 23 procedures that you can put into practice immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u7	Mr President! This 25 % versus 10 %, to which you refer: So we brought the directive, its legislation, to Finland, national regulation that we had decided together with our European partners on the European front. This 10% rule, i.e. ownership and transparency, has emerged in the debate, yes, through the SDP, but this has also been discussed at European tables. That's what we're working on. We are ready to discuss it. But the legislation that was adopted at the time, which was good — it will increase transparency — was adopted on the basis of a very recent common European legislation at the time. So we've really done a lot. During this autumn, we have entered into agreements whereby the Finnish tax authority receives tax information from more than 100 countries — more than 100 countries — and these agreements contain almost all the so-called tax havens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u8	Mr President! So that agreement, mentioned by the Minister, was concluded during the time of Minister Rinte. Once again, the Paradise records revealed numerous tax - planning arrangements for large corporations. It is indeed possible to address them when this EU directive on tax evasion is being implemented in Finland next year. During the preparatory phase, the SDP introduced a number of tightening-up measures to the Directive, but left many gaps for the tax evader. Now Sweden and the Netherlands are already making the directive into national law. Finland, on the other hand, has not produced a first draft law. In this operational programme, the SDP has proposed a number of improvements to the Directive to ensure, inter alia, that foreign real estate investors pay tax on rental income received in Finland. Similar arrangements in Britain emerged as a result of this information leak. So I ask Minister Orpo: when will you allow these laws to be brought here to Parliament? And when you praise your efforts to prevent tax evasion, say at least one point about which you are proposing a stricter regulation this time than the EU minimum.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u9	Mr President! I believe that Mr Harakka, as a member of the Tax Section, is well aware that Finland has brought into its national legislation the tax laws that have been decided jointly in the interests of the European countries with a view to eliminating tax planning and tax evasion. This principle does, and I think it is wrong to give a different impression. We are constantly working internationally in Europe at different tables where our sole aim is to prevent tax evasion and to get to Finland the tax euros that belong to the Finnish tax authorities, i.e. Finnish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u12	Mr President! First the Panamanian papers, now the Paradise papers. The problem is the same, but now we know that the problem is even greater. This means that we need even greater measures. I would ask the minister concerned: how does the government intend to eradicate tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, both through its own actions and at EU level? If this is brought into concreteness, how, for example — when we are talking about public, country-specific tax reporting or transparency of ownership within the EU — will Finland be placed in a position in these discussions? What is the Finnish approach to these tightening ups? How does Finland push for as strict legislation as possible so that no tax euro escapes the Finnish taxpayer?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u13	Thank you for this question. First of all, I think it is good that Panama’s papers have also been followed by Paradise papers. It is actually the same phenomenon: this information is coming out. It is not just done by the authorities, but it will help the authorities to find out how complex and clever arrangements are made in the world for tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. The Finnish tax authorities and the police do not receive this information directly, but they will certainly go through and certainly contribute to the investigation. But we ourselves must be able to verify possible crimes in order to get to them. But what has been done, i.e. within the OECD, is still the most important thing, because these are global problems. We are jointly involved in increasing transparency and, as I said,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u14	Mr. Speaker! After the revelation of these Paradise papers, the Finnish people certainly expect strong action from the government at national level in this matter and, in addition, strong action in the European Union. If there is any good in the European Union, then you would think so, but we know that there are Member States which do not seem to comply with these decisions and objectives relating to illegal tax evasion and aggressive tax planning and whose values should be included in the Union. The Netherlands has now been involved in these matters as a state, and Luxembourg has long been such a country. The former long-term Chancellor of Luxembourg is the President of the Commission. Do you, Minister Orpo, trust the European Union's real will and ability to intervene in this activity, which is truly arrogant?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u15	Mr President! Every single country in the European Union has the same rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u18	Mr President! Tax evasion and tax havens are the cancer of the global economy. They undermine the financing of public services, distort competition between companies and increase economic inequality. Fortunately, it is possible to intervene in tax havens. The means are public country-by-country reporting, extensive transparency of ownership, including beneficiary information, and more effective legislation on abuse of the right to deduct interest payments. Tax evasion is not just a problem for Finland and Europe. This is particularly a problem for developing countries whose development is a barrier when capital flows to tax havens. It is therefore doubtful that Finnfund has invested through funds operating in tax havens. Minister Mykkänen has promised that the activities will be reviewed and transparency increased. I would therefore like to ask in concrete terms: what measures will be taken to prevent this from occurring in future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u19	Mr President! That's a very relevant question. Even today, Finnfund's current guidance prohibits the investment of any intermediate company registered in tax haven states as defined by the OECD. We are currently updating Finnfund's tax policy and corporate governance letter for next year, and, when asked about concrete measures, we will be more precise in these documents to ensure that the investments made through an intermediate company can also be openly reported on their tax footprint. Finnfund does not invest through intermediate companies in order to minimise taxes, but because unfortunately, the most fragile and poorest countries with the greatest development benefit do not get the necessary partners to invest in direct investments, because they do not rely on the stability of the target country and the fairness of tax legislation and therefore have to make an intermediate company in a third country. But these financial centres have confidentiality features that we need to get rid of with regard to public development funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u20	Mr President! The Centre is in favour of taking action against the shadow economy and preventing international tax evasion, which is clearly clear and we must be active. At the same time, the Finnish tax system has developed. That is what we in the Tax Division have said. It is much more predictable today than before when taxation was arbitrary. I think Mr Harakka gives the wrong impression of the Finnish tax system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u23	Mr President! We are working at a joint table of finance ministers in the Eurogroup all the time to ensure that we have as common tax practices as possible, so that the European tax system is fair between the different countries, so that neither the grey areas within the countries nor the EU border are formed. The fact that we have a harmonised tax system, a tax base, common rules of play as far as possible and then a national margin for determining or detailing different tax levels would be the objective we have in order to achieve an effective, transparent tax system that will be able to collect in each country the taxes necessary to safeguard its well-being. I think you are right that the Finnish tax system has evolved all the time and is developing with great strides, and in an increasingly international environment it must be developed in particular, which is why I think we are:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u24	Mr President! Minister Orpo said, "We must destroy the tax havens." I do not think it is clear how the present government is going to react to this negative mildew phenomenon, which costs billions. In the past, Finland had a system in which the aggravated tax fraud was both subject to tax increases and was subject to criminal sanctions separately. Since then, the European Court of Human Rights considered this to be contrary to the so-called ne bis in idem rule, which is contrary to the ban on double punishment, and so Finland's legislation was amended so that only one of these penalties would result in tax fraud. And I'm sure that in Finland, human rights lawyers had a party to celebrate that I saw again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u25	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz is going to address the real question. In many sectors, other than taxation alone, there is a ban on double criminality, and in this case we have to admit in this very Chamber that I have not yet had the opportunity to read this new solution as well as Zyskowicz, and I must look into it. All means by which tax offenders can be fully convicted both in Finland and in the world must be introduced in Finland as well as in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u26	Mr President! These Paradise papers show how serious the problem is. It is good to remember that every time a big shoe avoids taxes, other taxpayers — ordinary employees and pensioners — pay those taxes. And this is about the need for action at both EU and OECD level. However, Mr Orpo, it is also not possible to underestimate the measures that every country and every government in every country can take. And one to influence this is, in fact, exactly what Mr Zyskowicz raised: what is the risk of being caught? What happens if we catch a person or a company that has circumvented taxes? Will there be proper punishments or not? And now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have suggested that the penalties imposed on companies or individuals when they are caught should be reduced. And here's where to fix it. Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance: now that these The Paradise papers at the latest show that
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u27	Mr President! This is the same subject that was here a couple of weeks ago in class, and I still think you have the wrong idea. We have brought to Parliament by the government a large tax preparatory project that harmonises tax practices and also sanctions, and, in my opinion, there will be no change to current practice. Instead, in the cases you described today, the tax authorities have very much to consider, but we now want to clarify the consequences of what kind of question will come. But if you have failed to pay taxes and it involves a crime, you cannot circumvent it in any way, the crime will be held accountable. Moreover, all taxes must always be paid. It is now a matter of the fact that if you report an error in taxation and report it, then the tax authority will wonder whether it is a criminal act or a minor error and will determine whether it is a criminal act or a minor error.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u28	We're going to the next question. Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u29	Mr President! Finland is irresponsibly committed to the EU's highest transport emissions targets and threatens to be seen as a significant increase in car prices. Finland has already been confident in advance that very unrealistic targets will be met when the EU forces car manufacturers to make low-emission cars. However, according to public information, this is not happening. The Minister of Transport and Communications has already mentioned other means of achieving these objectives. Once again, we are in the pocket of a Finnish motorist, a working person. We Finns cannot accept this. So I ask the Minister: how do you ensure that long distances in Finland, where a car is necessary for many workers, will continue to be able to afford to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u30	Mr President! Finland has committed itself to very ambitious climate targets and thus also committed itself to reducing emissions in transport by 50% from 2005 to 2030. These objectives can be achieved by three key elements: ensuring the energy efficiency of the transport system, ensuring the propulsion of vehicles, i.e. the energy efficiency of vehicles, and promoting the use of alternative fuels. One of these is the energy efficiency of vehicles, which, however, achieves only part of this objective. We have taken care of this and we are committed to ensuring that motoring will also continue to have a good opportunity to make progress in Finland and that we support these solutions, including through the scrapping premium and also through the purchase aid for electric cars,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u31	And now there is the opportunity to ask further questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u32	Mr President! Finland's careless negotiating tactics in international agreements and green, tax-based environmental impact are costly for Finns. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, think that Finns are starting to buy hybrids and other electric gadgets. I can tell you that not many people can afford a new car, no matter what they do. In the ministers' income category, we are now completely out of this reality. Your unrealistic targets for transport already threaten the whole industry, and therefore Finnish jobs and the entire national economy. Now, Minister, let us know in clear terms how you intend to ensure that the whole of Finland will continue to have the opportunity to live, live, work and try.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u33	Mr President! There are many ways to reduce emissions from transport, as Mr Berner said, and the most effective and quickest way to reduce emissions from transport is to mix up the obligation to refuel all vehicles, both older and newer, with internal combustion engines, with fossil diesel or gasoline, and that is not the purse. Every single one of us in the tank will then receive part of the renewable and contribute to this reduction in transport emissions. The very figure will then be that traffic will be electrified in the future. We want to speed it up with this acquisition aid mentioned by Mr Berner, but there too, that breakthrough will only take place when electric cars are as cheap for the consumer as conventional internal combustion cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u34	Mr President! The Government's climate and energy strategy has stated that the target should be 50,000 gas cars, and at the moment there are only a few thousand gas cars in traffic in Finland. This is partly because we do not have enough refuelling points and, on the other hand, I believe that the government has not done enough to make the purchase of gas cars more attractive to the consumer. Now this government proposal has this conversion aid, but would it be possible that, in exactly the same way as at present, purchasing aid would also be given to electric cars? Biogas, which is half blended in this gas mixture, is climate-friendly, and in that sense, in the case of rural livelihoods, it would be extremely important for these refuelling points to be introduced there, thereby revitalizing the vitality of the countryside and then bringing these gas cars to transport. Otherwise, we have an egg-chicken problem: there are no refuelling points when there are no cars, and there are no cars,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u35	Mr President! Mr Essayah is quite right that we have many ways of supporting the energy efficiency of the propulsion of vehicles, one of which is also a gas car and its related target, 50,000 cars by 2030. At this point, one of the conclusions of the parliamentary working group was to support the purchase of electric cars now, because the purchase price is still enormously high in relation to other vehicles with lower emission characteristics. The gas car is very close to other energy-efficient diesel and petrol cars and therefore, in the context of the acquisition aid, they are not being supported. In addition to this, the parliamentary working group has also agreed to promote both distribution support and the construction of charging points. Here too, work is on the way, and this preparation is being carried out by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u36	Mr President! After all, there is a great deal going on in transport policy, and it is very good that Finland is ahead of us on the road to the future. Take, for example, electric cars: if households set up an electric panel on the roof, the battery of a car acts as a back-up power to the entire electricity system of the economy in question, thereby also generating benefits for society on a large scale through the power of adjustment and so on. Similarly, on the gas side, biogas production produces a lot of good things, such as through agricultural fertilizer. And these emissions will be greatly reduced when new less-emission vehicles come into use. Moreover, this increase in the efficiency of public transport is a big deal. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u37	We'll hold on to this one-minute response time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u38	Mr President! Indeed, yesterday the Commission has only actually announced its future decision, but it has not yet announced the regulation. It seems that the Commission's regulation will settle in such a way that good emission limits for vehicles will be achieved for Finland in 2030, and in particular, an interim target for 2025 will be achieved. This will support the fact that the car industry is going to seek ambitious emission limits and will also enable us to obtain better supply for the market. This is an important part of the objective work that we are working together in the EU as a minister. Made with a brickie.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u39	Mr President! Of course, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, we must begin by asking a little question about the current position of the Finns, because last spring, last summer, you were still in support of the Government's energy and climate strategy. The car industry, both internationally and here in Europe, is increasingly investing in electric cars and technological change is really fast. This also means that prices will fall. We have a lot of expertise in car technology in Finland. I personally believe that we will have a lot of jobs, research and development skills, perhaps a whole electric car cluster that we are not yet able to see. I would have asked the Minister: how does the government intend to contribute to Finland's becoming the number one country in the electric car industry in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u40	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Skinner, for this question. Indeed, Finland has excellent expertise when it comes to the technology and related know-how of electrified transport. That's what we've been collecting in VTT. VTT has generated spin-offs, such as Linkker, which produces electric buses that can be used for experiments, examples, around the world. It would also be great if we had cities involved in this experiment and making it possible to make it possible by creating electronic transport, especially for urban transport, on the public transport side. At the same time, our download infrastructure is at an excellent level, and this is also very visible in other Nordic countries. Hopefully, we will be able to promote electricity, electronic transport, so that this know-how can also be used better at home. We will do everything in our power to ensure that Finland's objective for electronic transport succeeds, and we will take these measures on more fronts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u41	Mr. Speaker! In my opinion and in the view of the Greens, climate change does not wait. Actually, it's not a matter of opinion, it's a fact. Therefore, the new emissions targets set by the European Union, for example for car transport, are essential and Finland should be among the winners here and invest in new technologies, as Mr Skinner also said. We, the Greens, are proposing not only to support these good government proposals, but also the five-year exemption from the tax on cars and vehicles for new electric cars, so that we can further speed up the market. However, we believe that these proposals from the parliamentary transport group are the best. One part of this package is the old car scrapping premium, where some talk has been made. It can guide the conversion or replacement of the old car fleet. I would like to ask Minister Berner: how do you feel about the idea that in future the scrapping premium could also be paid as a public transport voucher?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u42	Mr President! Now we have agreed on one package for 2018 for the scrapping premium. In principle, I am open to solutions that contribute to our climate objectives for transport. I would also like to thank you for the good cooperation we have had in the parliamentary working group. Even in the course of this parliamentary work, we will come back to other means, including tax issues, insofar as they affect climate control. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u43	We'll take the next question. Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u44	Mr President! Finns expect the government to hope for a creative and sustainable future-building policy. Finns also expect justice from the government. These hopes have been undermined by government cuts in education and by the fact that the freezing of basic security and cuts from the poorest will continue next year. But they are also gnawed by the fact that we are not doing enough to build a future climate policy. That is not enough in transport policy, but it is not enough in the wider sense. Now, this week and next week, there is a climate conference in Bonn, and we are living for years when global warming is getting out of hand so that targets to keep global warming below 2°C or to reach up to 1.5°C are very difficult to achieve with the current EU and Finland emission reduction targets. So it would now be important for Finland to increase its commitments — contrary to what this government has done so far, i.e. cut climate finance by more than half and have not found new emission reduction targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u45	Mr President! It is always worth focusing on what is being negotiated. Representative Niinistö’s concern about global warming is a tremendous concern, which will certainly be widely shared in Bonn. It is now important to proceed with the implementation of the Paris Agreement, and those crucial issues relate to how we can monitor and report emissions from different countries in the most reliable and transparent way possible from different sources, so that the picture of what is needed to keep climate change within acceptable limits is clarified and able to assess the impact of the measures taken and the promises made by different countries. In the EU, too, it is important that those commitments of the Paris Agreement, minus 40% of emissions reductions, are first transposed and enforced, and in a few years' time the rounds will come in which the need for further action will be further assessed. As far as climate finance is concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u46	It is now possible to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u47	Mr President! Indeed the situation is that we now have three record warm years behind us, 2014–2016 are the warmest years in the history of measurement. Extreme weather phenomena have increased, and it is a statistical fact that this is already causing significant economic harm globally, and these handicaps are only increasing year by year. In other words, the fact that action is now being taken in the coming years and the pace of reductions in emissions is being tightened is in the interests of people's well-being, it is in the interests of the economy, and the countries that are among the first to do so will also benefit from it in terms of building a sustainable economy and prosperity for their own citizens. That it is also the best policy to combat poverty and inequality if we are able to create these jobs in Finland now. That is why I would like to ask the government: when we know that in a year's time Poland will assess whether existing commitments will be sufficient, and we know with great probability that the commitments made by the EU will not be enough, and that the earlier the emission reductions will be made, the cheaper they will be in the long term, and will Finland be prepared to look at its own actions this year and next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u48	Mr President! First, we must always ensure that we do what we have already promised, and at this point Finland implements the Paris Agreement and the EU's promises and Finland's own promises very vigorously. We have renewed the energy and climate strategy a year ago, set ambitious global targets to increase the share of renewable energy to more than 50%, to abandon the use of coal entirely, to halve the use of fossil oil in the next decade. These are very valuable, good objectives. In addition, some time ago, the Government submitted to Parliament a emission reduction plan, a climate change plan in accordance with the Climate Change Act, how in the next decade we will reduce the emissions generated by housing, transport and so on. On these issues, just as the representative asks, pioneering and the role of companies is very important, and I am proud of Finnish companies, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u49	Mr President! The news of Bonn's climate conference has been heard that the Syrian delegation announced Syria's willingness to accede to the Paris Agreement. When Nicaragua has already signed it, it seems that we are in a situation where the United States alone, as the only country, is going to be excluded from the Paris Agreement. This raises the question of carbon tariffs once again. The idea of carbon duty is that imported goods should be taxed at the EU border according to their emissions. There would be equal conditions of competition here, and anyone who does not care about climate work would not have a competitive advantage. This could also put pressure on the United States to join the Paris climate agreement. I asked you about this, Minister Orpo, on the spring side — you were open to the idea, but you said you were not familiar with it, but you intend to explore this good idea. My question would be for you: have you been familiar with it, and will Finland promote this introduction of carbon duties in the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u50	Mr President! This is a trade policy issue. Of course, what is important is that we also get those countries that are currently not involved in carbon pricing, that is to say in emissions trading systems. Fortunately, in China, for example, emissions trading is already being applied in many areas and, fortunately, in the United States, many states have actually increased ambition over the past year and not vice versa, and I believe that this is progressing. The question that the European Union, for example, would impose separate tariffs based on carbon dioxide estimates, for example on imported steel, is very difficult in practice, because if we set such a duty, China would immediately tell us that they too have emissions trading in these and these sectors, yes the German industry will get a discount on the price of electricity and so on. In the case of the VTO, this type of customs duty would certainly fall in its improbability, if we are honest. But the principle is correct, of course. There has been talk of climate funding here in the past, and I would like to say that the picture is by no means as gloomy as Mr Niinistö referred to earlier. In practice, we have just concluded the biggest contract in Finland's history for a EUR 500 million project pipeline together with the World Bank,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u51	Mr President! This has already been mentioned here in the past, how the Finns have responded to the energy and climate strategy, and surely it is self-evident for everyone that each of us has taken care of the future, the environment and nature. It is, of course, about the means and the tools to achieve that result. We sought the justice of people’s participation in and support for these efforts. In that question by Mr Ronkainen, which I did not really get the answer to myself, we asked about these very methods. We are taxing fuels and making it difficult for people to travel to work, and we cannot afford to change cars, so we asked about the concrete ways in which ordinary people could participate in environmental protection. It is not a question of opposing environmental protection, it is a question of not necessarily being able to afford to change that car. That I'm not one of those concrete means right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u52	Mr President! As I have already tried to answer here, I can try better if there was some confusion in the message, every Finn who has a car in the yard or in the garage or on the side of the street participates in climate work as we increase the obligation to mix the fuel sold, i.e. how much it must have a renewable component. Every single driver can get in on this, whether it's an old vehicle or a new one. Everyone can choose cycling, walking or public transport where they are available as tools for everyday mobility. Many Finns, who have the opportunity to choose the heating form of their own home, have moved from oil to geothermal heat, pelleted and similar solutions, and many responsible cities in district heat production have already abandoned fossil energy and moved to renewables to keep our homes warm.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u53	We'll take the next question. Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u54	Mr President! In the summer, many Finns wondered how the government work after the separation of the Finns of Finland was continued with a group that no Finnish citizen had voted for. Many then asked if this new government had been prepared in advance. Prime Minister Sipilä, in June you said in the Government's communication on a new government base that such a debate did not exist and that you first heard something about it on Sunday evening. There are now allegations in public that this is not the case. These arguments are so serious that the Left Alliance's parliamentary group considers it extremely important that this issue should now be clarified before the whole Parliament. Prime Minister Sipilä, are you still behind your statement to Parliament in June?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u55	Mr President! On 19 June, I answered this same question and stand exactly behind that same answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u56	We now have the opportunity to ask further questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u57	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, if you still stand exactly behind this statement and for the first time heard about this new government base not until Sunday evening, what did you discuss with the Secretary of State of Finland on Sunday during his visit to the Summer Bank? This morning, Congressman Tiina Elovaara has said that the Secretary of State of Finland met Sipilä in Kesäranta on Sunday and left the meeting hiding in the trunk of the car,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u58	Mr President! In fact, it was at that time whether the government or the government knew any information about this before the National Assembly weekend that the party could split up in two. No, it wasn't. That was my answer to the question. There was no such information. I met State Secretary Virtanen at the Summer Beach, as I have told you before, and we discussed how the situation of the Finns of Finland looks. So it was a meeting after that weekend, after the party meeting. The way Virtanen left that meeting on the Summer Beach,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u59	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! First we had an open office, then we had a U-turn, and now we have this trunk. [Laughter] Prime Minister Sipilä, after the negotiations with the government, you said that your government is like a party of equal size. Two and a half years later, it seems that the government is a loose coalition of three or perhaps two and a half parties, where everyone is doing a little of their own. At least this is the picture you get when you watch government parties communicate. Let us take, for example, the reform of social security: we are constantly reading different interpretations of the content of the social welfare reform and the Government's policies, most recently yesterday on the future of rural opinion boards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u60	Mr President! This is a much more important question than how Virtanen left the Summer Beach. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u61	Mr President! The old wisdom is that being in government is unpleasant but even more unpleasant is being in opposition, and listening to the opposition’s criticism, which focuses mainly on who was in the container and who did not, finds that [ Hustles from the left] bitter tears flow when you are not in government making decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u62	Mr President! What it called for in the final stages was that we received the assurance, as government parties, parliamentary groups, the coalition and the centre, that now this new formed group will stand behind the government programme and give the government, its ministers, its full support. That was the demand I was waiting for when these Tuesday events were. Then, on Tuesday, we got confirmation, and then we acted on that Tuesday — approximately 2.30 p.m. on Tuesday, when I called you, Mr Elo, and I received the final assurances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u63	Mr President! This is not a laughing matter here in Parliament. It is a question of how citizens can trust and view democracy and parliamentary action. It has now become clear that State Secretary Virtanen and State Secretary Nevamäki have both spoken some modified truth in connection with this matter, in connection with the events at the Prime Minister's office in Kesäranta. Yes, all this has happened shows that from a democratic point of view, from a parliamentary point of view, it would have been important in that situation to whistle the game out, to negotiate and then perhaps to come to this conclusion, to this solution. By your own actions, Prime Minister Sipilä, throughout this episode, you have created more distrust and a lack of respect for democracy in the people as a result of your actions. How do you see this for yourself: has your actions strengthened public confidence in democracy and Finnish parliamentary activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u64	Mr President! The central part of these events on Monday and Tuesday was, of course, to ensure that we acted exactly in accordance with the Constitution, and that is what we did.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u67	One further supplementary question on this point. Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u68	Mr President! Just as Mr Rinne has said here, it is a question of trust in politics and also of our political system, democracy and the statements made by the political decision-makers in this country. Yes, all parties were open to the negotiation process at the time this was discussed. I don't think even the Secretary of State for Basic Finns is so comfortable in the trunk of a car that he would have hid there for fun when he left the Summer Beach. And this discussion of this issue in this forum is important precisely because it is necessary to clarify whether these serious claims made in public are true or not. Prime Minister, I have now interpreted your speech to the effect that you did have information about the plans of these parliamentarians to move to another group during the weekend. Is this true?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u69	Mr President! I answered this question here in such a way that on Sunday night I got the first signs that there was some movement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u70	I will give you one more supplementary question. — — — — Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u71	Mr President! We are talking about the Finns of Peru, as if the Finns of Peru were not there themselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u74	Mr President! There's never been one like this on the Summer Beach. But there were such raccoons, as I said 19. Even the day that if the President changes, it may be that some representatives go to another group. There were speeches like that, like I said 19. day. What was this discussion about with the Finns? Yes, Mr Halla-aho's answer to whether you are committed to the Government Programme was yes. But we also discussed the values with Mr Orpo and Mr Halla-aho, the Minister of Finance, and whether this government, together with the new leadership of the Finns of Peru, will find a basis of value for us to deal with the issues we are facing, then we talked about immigration, we talked about EU policy, we talked about them, we talked about the issues that are ahead of us, and on this issue
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u76	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u77	Mr President, värderade talman! Ten years have passed since Jokela’s school shooting, and surely each of us will remember that day forever. But what has happened has resulted, among other things, that safety in schools and the well-being of students have become more common topics, and this is good, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u78	Mr President! It is ten years since the Jokela tragedy, but these things are not wiped out by the mind but are seriously present, and, in principle, in all the planning that we do in education policy, one of the key priorities is to ensure the safety of learning environments. In this context, we currently have preparations at the Ministry of Education and Culture. In the coming times, we will pay more attention to the fact that learning environments are safe from different perspectives, and we will also pay attention to security plans and planning, so that good practices are created to ensure safety in all areas, whether we talk about the well-being of students and students, student and student care, or also about the safety planning of the educational environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u79	Mr President! Indeed, it has been so many years since the events of Jokela, there will soon be the same amount of Kauhajoki. After these shocking events came, it was the physical safety of the study subjects, such as how the escape routes and everything are taken care of. So a lot of work has been done on it. That is why I am referring to this, because now the European Commission has also woken up to this, that special security mechanisms must be built in these public spaces. At this very moment, we have it as a priority in that ministry too, and work has been started to improve the safety of public spaces in general, as requested by the Commission. But much work has been done in Finland on the safety of schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u80	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u81	Mr President! We have the honour to present the bill as a law for the establishment of a delegation from the Children's Foundation for the centenary of Independence. Children are the key assets of society’s future. The better educated, healthier and more balanced children are, the more certain the nation’s future will be bright. Today, on average and historically, children in Finland are better than ever. At the same time, however, many children are unhappy and difficult. There is much room for improvement in some places, and in good cases there is always room for improvement. Support is increasingly needed both in families and communities and in society at large. The good development of the child’s position must continue. Parliamentary groups, all parliamentary groups, consider it important that the Parliament celebrates the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence with a solemn decision in support of the well-being and equal development of children. This Decision would support the Foundation, which is responsible for contributing to the improvement of the status of children on all sides by developing and maintaining good activities in support of this objective. The support is appropriate not only for children but also for families with children and for authorities and service providers working with children. Mr President! As early as 1987, the Central Union for Child Welfare and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health set up the Children's Fund for the centenary of Independence, which in recent years has tried to address the above-mentioned problems in particular, inter alia by evaluating and disseminating scientific evidence-based methods that can be used to support the good growth and parenthood of children. The Foundation's financial resources have been modest. However, the Foundation has been able to create new skills in Finland through the promotion of support for parents based on scientific evidence and the networking of actors in the field, thus demonstrating the need for its activities to prevent child exclusion and reduce inequalities. As a result of the formal decision, Parliament participates in the development of the Foundation to be changed to the Children's Foundation for the Year of Independence. This will be done both by a significant increase in the Foundation's capital, which will enable the Foundation, through its return on capital, to secure long-term operations, and by setting up a delegation for the Foundation. The task of that delegation is to monitor, support and promote the activities of the Foundation. According to the Foundation’s rules, a delegation appointed by Parliament elects the members and alternates of the Foundation’s Board of Directors and may dismiss them during the term of office. Mr President! The first job of the new Itla is to launch a national parenthood support programme. It is an excellent thing and supports the prevention of child inequality. The source of inequality is not only income, but also the ability of parents to support their children. For example, school shows the impact of parental background on learning outcomes. It is essential that the various professional sectors working with children have better tools to support parents and their good interaction with their own children. For the well-being of children, being able to talk with their own parents and having a positive home environment is absolutely essential, and that is what it is. Itla also starts to promote wider communication for the whole population about the importance and value of old age. Mr President! The centre sees that not all children’s problems can be treated by increasing early childhood education, but support must also go home and to families. James Heckman, a famous economist, has noted that investing in early childhood education even more in the welfare of children is influenced by the quality of parenthood and its support. I see that in the new Itla, too, it can be made an actor who goes beyond the different party boundaries and beyond the other boundaries of society, who is going to build a common state of will and a national strategy for the well-being of children and young people. Minister Annika Saarikko has also spoken of such a need before, and when the social welfare reform brings new activities into the regions, we need a body that is working together to achieve these goals and visions. Of course, this strategy work must be based on the rights of the child and promote the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Itla’s work can take us forward and now continue as the government’s top project to change the child and family services and commit it across party boundaries so that there is a common national will for the well-being of children and young people. Mr President! It is really great that this bill is here and is signed by all the parliamentary parties. The key to this is the formation of a delegation in Itla and a substantial capital worth up to EUR 50 million to enable it to do more and more effective work for children and families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u82	Mr President! Internationally, Finnish children and young people are well on average, but at the same time inequality is worrying. Eight out of a hundred young people in high school can hardly ever talk to their parents about their affairs, and four see their parents drunk every week. Physical punishment and other forms of abuse have decreased over the years, but action is still needed to eradicate them. Mental health for children and young people is an important public health issue for the future and is inextricably intertwined with family situations and interactions. Mental health problems in children and parents are often treated separately or children are not taken into account in the care of the mental health of parents. In Finland, more children are also placed outside their home as a child protection measure than in any other Nordic country. There are often failed educational practices that are not appropriate to the child’s needs and conflicts between families. Problems are often passed on from one generation to the next. The urgency of everyday life, the pressures of working life and stress also cause difficulties in otherwise prosperous families. Birth rates are currently historically low in Finland, and according to the latest family survey, the threshold for family reunification is the highest for the most vulnerable in the economy. Parenthood is often considered too demanding. Many parents do not have functional close networks with help and support. For this reason, it is important that all parents also have access to peer support without a threshold. There is an unprecedented interest in education today in the public debate. Support is needed not only for the parents of young children but also for example during puberty. Families are more diverse, which also brings their own needs for support for parenting and professional skills. The diversity of diverse families includes e.g. divorced families, reconstituted families, single-parent families, immigrant families, rainbow families, adoption families or foster families. The reform of social welfare and health services is bringing further challenges to support the well-being of families. In the reform, education and social services are administratively separated from the responsibility of the municipality and the province. It is important to support continuity and cooperation between early childhood education, education and social and health services. For example, solving children’s behavioral disorders, school peace problems, and root causes of bullying often requires the whole family. Therefore, effective methods of parenting support are needed for the use of both education and social and health services. The current menu of methods in use is varied. It would therefore be important to ensure the quality and effectiveness of the methods used by regions, municipalities, organisations and congregations. Mr President! As with all parliamentary groups, the Parliamentary Group of the SDP considers it important that the Parliament celebrates the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence with a solemn decision in support of children's well-being and equal development. This will be done by supporting the Foundation for the Children's Fund for the centenary of Independence and by raising significantly the Foundation's capital to secure long-term activities. As a result of the formal decision, Parliament participates in the development of the Foundation, inter alia by setting up a delegation to which this bill relates. The delegation shall be composed of nine members and an equal number of alternates. Similar institutions selected by Parliament include the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council, the bank ombudsmen and the members of the General Board of Yleisradio Oy. There is a long, almost one year of work behind this bill. I've been a member of this party decision committee myself. We always had ideas behind this idea, but quite quickly a common note was found in that working group and it was crystallized that we wanted the children and young people and their future to be the subject of this solemn decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u83	Mr President! During the centenary of Finland’s independence, we particularly want to invest in the future. The Blue Parliamentary Group warmly supports this joint initiative of all parliamentary groups, a bill to promote the well-being of young children and families with children. The bill supports children and families with children through the Children's Foundation for the Year of Independence. The Foundation will be funded with EUR 50 million and a delegation will be set up to monitor, support and promote the Foundation’s activities. We believe it is important to invest in the well-being of children. It is important and sensible to do this through an existing foundation, not to start creating a new foundation. Mr President! The Children’s Foundation for the Year of Independence aims to promote the well-being of children and families with children and to support education and parenthood. A large part of the advisory and support services provided by the Foundation will continue to be considered free of charge and internet-based. In addition to children and families with children, support is also directed to authorities and service providers working with children. For example, the Foundation can train and share information with those working with children, publish studies and studies, and grant grants and grants for scientific research. The Blue Parliamentary Group welcomes the Foundation's efforts to promote the development of services based on scientific evidence. A great deal of high-quality research is being carried out in our society and we believe it is important that this research data is used to promote the well-being and equality of citizens. Mr President! During the Jubilee year, we have wanted to invest especially in children, as Mr Ojala-Niemelä has pointed out very well, because we want Finland to have a good start for the next 100 years. The aim is that by supporting the Children’s Foundation for the Year of Independence, children’s exclusion can be better prevented and inequalities reduced. The better the starting point for Finnish children, the better the Finnish society will be in the next 100 years. When the families are well, Finland is well. We fully support this legislative initiative, and I would therefore like to thank the members of the working group for their good work and for their very concrete, well-supported initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u84	Mr President! Not everyone's going fast, not everyone's in our society. It's a matter of concern. The number of care taken is increasing, the mental symptoms of children are also increasing. There are tired parents and there are families who need help to live daily. Society must support children and families. It is important to consider how to get a stop to all this negative development — how to prevent problems and symptoms and not always treat them? The resources of Finland are children and future generations. That is why it is important: for example, when we know the reality that birth rates in Finland are falling and, on the other hand, the desired number of children in families is not being realized, how does this equation work? We want future children and future young people to grow up in a richer Finland, where everyone is taken care of. That is why the forthcoming centenary decision of Finland’s 100-year independence in Parliament will be in the right direction. It is great that all the parliamentary groups in the Chamber have considered it important that the Parliament celebrates the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence with a solemn decision in support of the well-being and equal development of children, right under the Independence Day. The decision would support the Foundation, which is responsible for contributing to the improvement of the status of children across the board by developing and maintaining good activities to support this objective. The support is appropriate not only for children but also for families with children and for authorities and service providers working with children. Mr President! Juha Sipilä’s Board of Directors has the historic seat of the Minister for the Family, whose portfolio includes support for children, families and young people. Minister Annika Saarikko has consistently worked to improve the well-being of families. Good decisions have been taken during the electoral period, such as improving social security. The reform of family leave is just under way, which is being carried out with a great deal of ambition. Day care fees for families with low and middle incomes have been reduced so that almost 7,000 families have entered the category zero, so that there is no need to pay day care fees. The child allowances of single parents have been increased, while the lowest maternity, paternity and parental allowances have also been increased. The student allowance is paid by the family’s guardianship contributions. These are all handouts of financial support for children and families, but we all know that only financial and financial support does not prevent the problems of children and young people. In society we need a posture in that parenting is taken seriously and we can also support parenting, those parents who are exhausted in their own work or in that responsibility for education. It is up to us all to support all families. Mr President! There are hundreds of child and family organisations in Finland, and one may ask why we need a new kind of foundation or a new delegation. But I think it is important that this future delegation should bring together various child and family organisations around Finland. The Foundation may also provide grants, grants and grants for scientific research which will contribute to the Foundation’s purpose and objectives. This will provide new scientific, researched information on the development of parenthood and the status and growth conditions of families with children. Of course, it is also important to bring together those working with children and, for example, child health clinics. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u85	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that the Finnish Parliament, during the centenary of Finland's independence, is drafting a law on the establishment of a delegation from the Children's Foundation for the centenary of the Year of Independence. It is absolutely vital that we celebrate the first 100 years of independence by investing in children, investing in families. At such an uncertain time, the support and security of a small child is always the parent, the family in which the child feels safe from the evil world and in that family he wants to be and grow up and develop into a balanced adult. Recently, only this concept of the nuclear family has been severely shaken by all kinds of modern fashion trends. A girl should no longer be called a girl, a boy should no longer be called a boy, and a family is a bit of a concept that is what it really is. The traditions and arguments of Christian education are being shaken all the time. And the very same thing is whether you can sing summer at the spring party or not. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group] When the debate is on this level, I question this foundation of Finnish education and Finnish society, traditional education and learning the values of life. It is a wonderful thing that such foundations and research fields are being set up and given money, but I would hope that we will sometimes give them a chance to do the right thing. For example, when you read a recent newspaper discussion and you see opinions on social media about all kinds of trash writings when I say straight away, the mind of a small child gets confused when you look at what you're doing now. Indeed, if a girl can't be a girl anymore and a boy can't be a boy anymore, and a father can't be called a mother, it's been a long time. I have raised my own children, and I am already the grandfather of one little girl child, and I rejoice in the position that I have been granted, and we go to all clubs, parish clubs, and wherever, and can have the joy and joy of meeting people and living a real life there. I wish that would be possible for all children, every single child in Finland. It's just that this conversation has become that way. — There a representative in the back row laughs at him, but it is proper to respect the fact that the life of a small person depends on whether he feels safe in this present-day running when he looks around the streets what is going on here. If Mr Räsänen wants to, he can visit the Helsinki railway station in the late hours on Friday evening, and then go to himself and get to know his own thoughts and what he laughs about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u86	Mr President! Well - being children become well - being adults of the future. Let that be our objective. One of the key concerns in this period, as has already been the case with previous speeches, is the inequality of our children. Our future working life requires more and more diverse skills from our children, but at the same time our children's reading and writing skills are weakened, including basic skills, swimming skills, as far as part of our children are concerned — that is, the basic skills on which we have built our welfare society, on which everything later in life is based. So we need to pay attention to our children. I am very pleased with this forthcoming decision of the Jubilee, which is now linked to this bill. Sitra is 50 years old and has become a major social player. I wonder if we're now on the verge of an equally important decision. Hopefully, because now is the time to get a new gift for Finland. However, we need contributions to explore and create new ones for our children and for the welfare of our children. We easily think that we already have things well, and that sometimes leads us not to look the truth in the eye or to take things to a new level. What is the innovation like the maternity clinic of the future is something that we will be waiting for with this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u87	Mr President! As a member of the working group, it is a pleasant task to note that when the first basic meetings were held and the parliamentary groups gave lunches to the members of the working group, it can be said that all parliamentary groups certainly, without having had a background discussion, were at the centre of the children. Some may have wanted us to make it possible for all children in the future, everyone, to have a hobby, who wanted to bring up what was special. And then when the group went on to summarise this, we went as a working group to get something perhaps new, something that would be completely new in this sector. It was not a very easy job to combine the views of all the parties, but then, as Mr Vehkaperä said, there was not a new one, but instead a foundation which was established already in 1987 and on the basis of it, and its purposes served most of all the representatives of the various political parties in the working group's view that something like that was now being done. There would certainly have been prepared entities in which money could have been put or funded for someone's activities, such as Save the Children's Association and so on, but at least in the parliamentary group of the Left-wing Union, it was seen that this, based on scientific research, I could say here as a project that was taken over, giving the best conditions to those who are already working in Finland for children and families, associations and organisations, and that makes this appropriate. In other words, we are thereby creating the opportunity for all those in this country who want to promote the status of children and families to have the best possible scientific research in order to make their own work more effective, and when this foundation is designed to network and network these various actors in this country, it will provide a good basis for the introduction of all the progressive, scientifically proven and scientifically proven issues now. The good news is that there was a consensus between the parliamentary groups on funding. Mr. Speaker! I think it is appropriate that, in this context, the financing solution was exactly in line with this model, and it was also important for the Left Alliance parliamentary group that we did not apply for funding from the money that was already raised, where there were already beneficiaries, i.e. the money that was not distributed in the funds of the Veikkaus which was now being created, but the right way. This management, the administration, then decide how this stock of state shares will be realised for the purpose of carrying out this activity, and it is hoped that the wisdom that investment in finance and potential future profits will give even more and wider shoulders to this development than 50 million at this stage could show.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u88	Mr President! In many ways, Finland has a very successful and glorious history, which we are celebrating with this decision now on the eve of a hundred years. But it is our job in this house to ensure that the next hundred years can also be a success story, so that in the next hundred years our future will also develop in the right direction. What better way to do this than to invest specifically in children? With this decision and with this legislative initiative, in which all the parliamentary groups are involved, we explicitly enable or facilitate the fact that in the future, the old principle that anyone in Finland can become anything will continue to become better, so that we can enable every child to have a future in which they can build themselves, pursue their own dreams and also help in that work, so that this future of Finland will remain very good and develop in the right direction. After all, the purpose of this Foundation, through various activities, for example through the research mentioned here many times, is also to provide decision-makers with the tools to make decisions that will also contribute to furthering these objectives in the future. That is why it would be good for us to be able in the future, both the decision-makers and this foundation, which is now getting good capital, to interact with such developmental ideas, so that we can also take to concreteity the ideas that spring from this foundation. On all sides, I can give you a warm welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u89	Mr President! We are living in the centenary of Finland's independence, and the parliamentary groups have jointly decided that the Parliament will make a decision to celebrate 100 years of independence. I am very pleased and the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party is very pleased that it is the children and families with children that have been chosen among the parliamentary groups for the purpose of the formal decision. Children and young people are the future of society, and that is why this decision is valuable in looking forward to the years ahead and the future. At present, in society, the situation of children and young people and families is perhaps the best that it has ever been, yet inequality is a major threat. Inequality can be encountered by children in different families. It does not necessarily look at the social class or the level of income. Inequality may be due to unemployment, sickness or too much work in the family and too little attention for children. That is why it is very valuable that this solemn decision is directed specifically at children and families with children. Then about this process itself. It is good that the Foundation for the Children's Fund has already been set up for this purpose and will now become the Children's Foundation for the Year of Independence. This is supposed to be capitalised so that the State transfers its share ownership to the capital of the Foundation and then the capital return finances the activity annually. Now we have a delegation from the Children's Foundation, which means that Parliament will set up a delegation of 9 members to monitor and support and promote the Foundation's activities in the future in order to achieve its objectives. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party naturally participates in this legislative initiative of all parliamentary groups and warmly supports the promotion of this purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u90	Mr President! At the time of the 50th anniversary of Finland, the Parliament set up Finland as a gift to celebrate Finland’s independence, which was entrusted with the task of competitiveness and growth, i.e. the successful Finland of tomorrow. Sitra has been involved in many projects, including the invention of xylitol and the launch of Finnish genetic research, as well as in many other major projects that strengthen the vitality and growth of our nation. I personally believe that this solemn decision, which is now before us to celebrate the centenary of Finland, can have at least equal consequences. After all, Finland is one of the world's leading countries in the well-being of children and families, but this is something that must not be abandoned, but that the forerunner must keep the pace of the day and try to improve and tighten up other countries as well as help to spread well-being elsewhere. I believe that the research and innovation generated by the foundation that is now being created will be of great benefit both within and outside the borders of our country, and this research and advice and training carried out by the Foundation will certainly be something that can also be used in its own way to obtain export products for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u91	Mr President! After all, children are at the heart of this bill, but not everyone in Finland today is born under happy stars. After the birth of a child, many families need different forms of support and, above all, parenthood, to guide them to it. It is also very important to always take this prevention into account so that no child feels excluded, and bullying, especially at school, is real today. A young person must always be taken seriously at school, and a child must never be thrown around from one authority to another, that is to say to be the person who takes responsibility — not to mention those young people with a lot of mental health problems. It is therefore necessary for us Finnish decision-makers to awaken, because for the 15 to 24 year-olds in Finland the second most common reason is suicide. We are in favour of this bill, and I hope that with this money, which we sometimes get, every child would have the listener, every child would have a lap to discuss those bad and good things and could always bring out all those things. It is also good here to use the phrase and the story that people with disabilities are often forgotten. I hope that this initiative will also take into account the disabled in our country. But as I said, we are very much in favour of this, and hopefully there will always be more positive things for children's lives, that every child here in Finland and — as was said here — also
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u92	Mr President! Such an actor has been needed in Finland, and there are international examples of this in the world. Experience elsewhere has been very encouraging in terms of impact. International research shows that programmes that have widely disseminated know-how to both professionals and parents have achieved a significant reduction in investment in child protection and child abuse, and studies have shown that support for parenting can lead to large-scale effects not only of public health but also of economic importance. Mr Hoskonen was able to leave, but he spoke in favour of the traditional concept of family, which in itself is honorable, but I would also like to stress that the child cannot choose the kind of family he will be born into. This is precisely the case with all kinds of families, i.e. the family concept of this programme is diverse, and family support networks, such as grandparents, are also included.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u93	Mr President! One year ago, the Parliamentary Children Group launched a debate on the issue of child inequality, so we wanted to bring the issue to the House for discussion in this Chamber. In the Child Group, every parliamentary party is represented, and so it was not the wish of any single party. However, the debate initiative did not progress at the time, but, fortunately, with this decision, Parliament shows that talking about children and investing in children is also important here in Parliament's Chamber. I hope that, first of all, Itla will start to create innovations in order to increase the equality of children. So well-being is the broad target that you want to influence, but equality if that increases the well-being of both children and the welfare of the nation as a whole. We have children, young people, to whom all the doors to the world are open. Of course, we can enjoy it, but we also have those young people for whom no doors seem to be open. "School age, as long as they are included,and thrown with small coins,revealed their experience of poverty in their own country. According to the Child’s Voice report, 38% of children have had to leave the field trip because of the family’s financial situation. Children who feel poor told them that they do not have the same opportunities as other children to engage in hobbies, travel or attend friends’ birthdays, for example. In modern times, it is easy to fall off others if the family does not have money for hobbies, for example. In our country, 100,000 children and young people live in low - income families. One in eight 15-year-old boys cannot read as well as would be required in further studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u94	Mr President! I would like briefly to join in those speeches which consider a truly fine initiative for the anniversary of independence on the part of Parliament to draw attention and promote the position of our children. It is great that all the parliamentary groups are involved in this. Contrary to many public comments, the situation of our children and young people is in many ways better than in the past, but there are many challenges that threaten children's health, well-being and balanced development. And when children have a fatherland’s future, the key is to lay the foundations of health and a balanced life in childhood. Homes provide the basis for this, and when legislation can only be very limited in what happens in homes, it is good that such a jubilee fund can contribute to these early years of life on the basis of research. After home, early childhood education and comprehensive school, as well as maternity and child health clinics, will then be in turn and will be institutions that can also be influenced by politics and political decision-making. When exclusion is a key national challenge and there are constantly different projects in this house, early intervention projects and actions to deal with risk groups and problems, it must be remembered that the real cost-effective national work must be supported — and I quote — "the well-being, equality and status of children and families with children, as well as a good future". This proposed approach within the framework of such an existing foundation is a good one, and the proposal should be warmly supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u95	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u96	Mr President! This is an important issue and I will therefore use this as a somewhat longer introduction, i.e. to present to Parliament the Government's proposal for legislation amending and trading in financial instruments and some related laws. This is the background to the EU directive and regulation on the markets in financial instruments. This is called MiFID II, with which many know it. This has been being prepared by the Ministry for several years and this is the background to a wide-ranging consultation. It is a very sensitive issue and that is why this has called for thorough preparation. The aim is to strengthen investor protection related to the provision of investment services, to increase market transparency and to tighten the sanctions for investment services breaches. In other words, regulation in this sector is being tightened in many respects in a very significant way. The Directive also includes, as a national option, the possibility not to fully apply the provisions of the Directive to operators providing certain investment services. This possibility applies, inter alia, to operators providing only orders to receive and transfer transferable securities or providing investment advice related to those financial instruments. It is important to emphasise that this proposed lighter licence very precisely limits the activity authorised for the operator. In all its activities, the operator shall be authorised by the Financial Supervisory Authority and shall not hold customer funds. These restrictions, which are imposed on the operator, are very firm and, according to our assessment, will in practice reduce the willingness of many operators to switch to this lighter licence, and I would like to emphasise once again that these operators will also have to comply with a number of key investor protection and procedural objectives, but without full application of the provisions of the directive. This lighter regulatory model and its Member State option is intended to be fully implemented at national level. In other words, the purpose of this proposal is to encourage smaller players to get as far as possible on the market, i.e. a lower threshold, and at the same time to increase competition in financial markets, for example in the provision of investment advice, which is certainly in the interests of the consumer and the investor. However, this licence requirement, which is imposed, and the application of certain key investor protection provisions, ensure that such activities can be adequately monitored. In other words, for example, the possible penalties imposed by the authorities for possible deficiencies are as severe for the operator, regardless of the type of licence that the operator carries out, i.e. if there is a lighter circle, the same sanctions, penalties as for those operating under that licence. This is a very important point for those who are concerned about this monitoring and operation. In other words, this lighter model can continue to be used by investment-based crowdfunding intermediaries who are not yet authorised by an investment firm or credit institution. Registered collective investment fund intermediaries within the meaning of the current crowdfunding law have not yet entered the Finnish market. There are only a few operators who have applied for registration, and this has led to the fact that only licensed banks and investment firms do so today. This current state of affairs, i.e. the current crowdfunding law, has created confusion and difficulties in the application of the law to market participants and the Financial Supervisory Authority, which is why the Financial Supervisory Authority has also been very active in the need to clarify this legislation, and this clarification is now aimed at improving the functioning of the market and increasing the legal certainty of operators and parties, while ensuring that our legislation is also in line with EU law and legislation in this respect. This means that we have a reliable crowdfunding market, of course, also aims to encourage foreign investment in the Finnish crowdfunding market and thus to promote access to finance, especially for domestic SMEs. This has been a very difficult task because, in this delicate situation, we have had to strike a balance with strong investor protection and then with the functioning of the market, that is, the more regulation there is, the more concern in the market, but then, on the other hand, we want to safeguard the protection of operators, the protection of investors. In particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, this functioning of the market and the strength of regulation are an essential issue, because our objective is to bring to the market even more small players, such as independent investment advisors, or, on the other hand, to prevent the collapse of the emerging youth crowdfunding market due to over-regulation. This has therefore been seen from the point of view of SMEs, and I have had discussions with a number of representatives on this and I believe that the concerns about the halting or halting of the mass finance market have, fortunately, now been wiped out. But then the other concern, namely the challenges involved in a lighter regulatory model or in allowing it, I think it is important that the legislation now provides stricter rules for operators and the supervisory authority to carry out this monitoring task. And I would like to stress that since this is already giving rise to a lot of different ideas, perspectives, the Ministry of Finance will closely monitor the implementation of this law and also the development of the crowdfunding market, and if needs for change are identified, then they will certainly be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u97	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u98	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Annex to the Act on the Taxation of Alcohol and Spirit Drinks proposes an increase in the taxation of alcoholic beverages from the beginning of 2018. According to the Government's tax policy guidelines, the tax focus is shifted from taxation on work and business, in particular to harmful taxes, and in order to reduce the tax burden on labour and prevent it from tightening, the government proposes an increase of EUR 100 million in alcohol tax. The Government Programme also states that alcohol tax will be revised if alcohol tax changes are made in Estonia, and we now know that alcohol tax increases are very high in Estonia: for example, the increase in beer tax will increase in 2017-2020 by almost 170 % and the tax on soft fermented beverages by almost 130 %. Our proposal provides for an increase in the alcohol tax to be applied to all groups of drinks, but a slight emphasis on non-strong drinks. On average, excise duty on alcoholic beverages would be increased by about 10%, which again means that retail prices will rise by around 5%. This means, in cash, that the price of medium beer would rise by about seven cents and the price of a bottle of wine by 40 cents. And now, however, it is worth noting that these calculations do not take into account the possible impact of the release of alcohol sales on prices, i.e. I refer to the reform of the alcohol law, which is being discussed at the same time in this House. Mr President! This proposal is an integral part of the government's tax package and, as I said, the reform of the alcohol legislation before Parliament is also a strong one. I hope that, according to the government's proposal, the proposals and proposals will be able to move forward in Parliament in a good spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u99	Mr President! At this point, I was able to ask for the floor. We were supposed to comment a little on the investor issue, but then, apparently, it was so late that it was printed that we might continue to discuss it later. President! As such, it is quite right that today we can, as it were, increase these harmful taxes. Of course, they have their own side and side, but these proposals are justified in themselves in these times. But I would like to draw attention, President, to the fact that the Minister also mentioned in his own speech that at the same time alcohol legislation is being reformed, and I think it is extremely worrying that if any tax increase we are talking about could in itself curb consumption, then at the same time this proposed reform of alcohol law would increase consumption. After all, the government itself has stated in its own presentations that these adverse effects in themselves, as a result of the increase in consumption, end up being greater than the reduction in consumption, for example, which these tax increases could cause. I think it is important to see this, and perhaps here again – and we have often spoken about it here in this sitting – I could make a little appeal to the government to consider whether this overall reform of alcohol law could still be considered in the sense that its disadvantages are very great, with increasing access and, consequently, the cost to society and, for example, the cost of maintaining safety on the whole, i.e. in the overall economic sense, this proposal has a considerable negative impact on society. So I am talking about this reform of alcohol law. President! I will also take this opportunity to have the Minister present in this Chamber. When we talk about harmful taxation here, and a year ago, there was a debate that this disappearing sweet tax should be replaced by:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u100	Mr President! As Minister Orpo has said here, this increase in alcohol tax is part of a broader alcohol policy package and is also linked to a subsequent overall reform of the alcohol law. In the light of what Mr Viitanen was surprised about, this tax increase is also intended to offset the potential increase in consumption and demand which would result from this increase in access. This is also the reason why the tax increase is targeted specifically at the products which would then be available in grocery stores. But now that the tax is being increased, it is also important to note that for our country, passenger imports are clearly a factor in increasing alcohol consumption. It is important to note that these tax increases are made in such a way that they do not increase passenger imports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u101	Mr President! The Minister made a presentation and said that the alcohol tax is being increased precisely because the focus is being shifted from taxation of labour to taxation of disadvantages, which certainly makes sense on both sides. But now that I listened to the previous speaker, perhaps the truth came. So, on the one hand, the government is reforming alcohol law, which, according to all estimates, will lead to increased harm and increased costs, and, as costs increase, there must be funding from somewhere to cover these costs. It has now been invented that alcohol tax will be increased by 100 million in order to compensate, as Mr Mäkelä has gone through, so that it is precisely in order to increase the taxation of the products that are now on the shelves of the shops, so that the increase in consumption will be more moderate and the disadvantages will not increase so much. The question then arises as to why, in the first place, reforms which increase costs are being promoted, and then tax increases are being used to try to reduce them. Would it not have been more sensible to leave behind the reforms that will increase the costs, so that there would have been no need for such measures on the tax side, so that the passenger imports would not be such a problem as they are now, while we too will be raising taxes, that is, even if the tax is raised in Estonia, then prices will be lower? I would have asked the Minister now that, when you look at this whole package, would it not have been more sensible not to carry out the reforms which will increase the costs, because we will now have to resort to tax increases?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u102	Mr President! I would have asked Minister Orpo: why did you not create a new category here, where there would have been, for example, 2,8 % alcohol and not more than 5,5 % alcohol produced from ethyl alcohol and for them a higher tax than on fermented beer in the same category? It would then have been possible to impose a higher tax on this mixture of beverages, which is not in any way employment-based, but purely ethyl alcohol-based, so that, in the forthcoming overall reform of the alcohol law, we could have thought that VAT on alcohol in restaurants would have been calculated, so that there would have been more taxation on labour and on this less employment-intensive sector, i.e. these mixtures, which contain only pure ethyl alcohol, would have created their own tax model, so that after the total reform of the alcohol law, the alcohol sold from shops would have been more expensive, and the tax revenue would then have been transferred to the less employment-intensive sector, i.e. these mixtures, which contain only pure ethyl alcohol, would have been passed on to the same tax model, so that the alcohol sold from there, after the total reform of the alcohol law, would have been more expensive and would have been transferred to the same. — No further details at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u103	Mr President! I would have thanked the Minister for this presentation and for this good bill. After all, we have had a regular and moderate increase in alcohol tax five times, and this is a logical continuation. However, I understand that the increase in this proposal is slightly smaller than the five previous ones. Indeed, not only alcohol tax but also tobacco tax has been gradually raised, and this is not only a good health policy but also, as the Minister said, a tax policy so that income tax can be reduced and the focus transferred to consumption taxes. This raise is quite moderate. According to the proposal, it is likely to be around EUR 3.4 per litre for beer, which means a little over six cents per bottle of beer — not very much of an impact. What has been said here about imports of Estonia is something to be forgotten, because Estonian beer probably accounts for about 5% of Finland's beer and is rapidly decreasing. It must then be borne in mind that, after 14 C.E., the price of beer has fallen — it is evident from these arguments in the proposal — and this increase is now going to be about the same as this one since 14 C.E. So the tax increase would actually cover a price drop after about 14 C.E. That is why I feel that this proposal has nothing to do with the alcohol law, at least not compared to the major effects of the release of strong beer and soda. Indeed, this tax law and the planned overall reform of the alcohol law are two completely different things to me, and I find it truly amazing and ridiculous that it has been a matter in public to link the big alcohol law and this ordinary alcohol tax law together, that is, the idea that if strong drinks are not imported into the market, then no tax will be raised. I think this is a ridiculous idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u104	Mr President! The government proposal presented just now by the Minister of Finance is well-founded and timely. In my opinion, the price of alcohol must be at the level that the state can collect a sufficient amount of tax revenue from it in the state treasury. But while taxes are being raised, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and many other ministries have, of course, been thinking red about what the right level is, because we live in an open society and we cannot be an island of high prices. If the price of alcohol is very high, it leads to uncontrolled imports from abroad, which then causes the money to go abroad and the tax revenue of the state to fall, which is the worst solution in terms of the whole. But I think that this responsible solution, which is now being discussed, is good and well-founded. However, when I have traveled around the Cape of Finland, I have made the observation that there is no situation in this country, nowhere near the Cape of Finland, that there is no alcohol, beer or anything else. Its distribution in this country is quite well and comprehensively organized, by legal means. Such a wise alcohol policy, with abstinence of policies, is a good thing. After all, one change is coming as our southern neighbours Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, who are now members of the European Union, are making their own social security system even better. Of course, it is clear to them that more taxes should be collected and, as we know, an increase in alcohol tax is currently going on in these southern neighbours, and the current coming from there will now be slightly reduced by this means, while the price of alcohol in Finland is at a reasonable level. So we're on the right track. As far as the overall reform that is currently under way is concerned, I will then comment on it later. One can only say that in this country, too, alcohol is available, and if anyone wants to buy a beer or a stronger one, it is not a problem. The main thing is that we are responsible for ensuring that the benefits and disadvantages... Alcohol always has certain advantages, the benefit is the tax euro in the State Tax Fund, but the disadvantage is, of course, these social disadvantages and health disadvantages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u105	Mr President! It is a good thing that this issue is being discussed here, because this does strengthen the message that we have heard in public about how the various government parties see it in a slightly different way with regard to the overall reform of the alcohol law and then with regard to this increase in the alcohol tax: I understand that quite a few representatives of the government parties have specifically linked these together, so that if one does not move forward, then the other will not. Well, it's the congressman. The bush then gave the line that these are not in any way hand in hand. This shows, however, that there seems to be a little difference of opinion within the government, depending on who you are going to ask. But, above all, I would still have addressed the same question in this whole alcohol tax package, which is represented by: Mr Myllykoski pointed out that, before the government's budget debate, there had also been a debate among the representatives of the government parties about whether it would have made sense for VAT to be reduced on the side of the restaurant. It would be good if the Minister of Finance were to go through this, because, in fact, we have had this alcohol consumption so that the amount of alcohol we have been giving in restaurants has been falling all the time. What we have increased is then this alcohol consumed at home and consumed on the street, even though it would probably be more reasonable for all rational people to see that alcohol consumption in restaurants in particular, because it would also be the most important thing in terms of employment. In other words, restaurants, which are the most important player in employment in this sector of the alcohol industry — that is, the largest number of people employed — are the least consumed. After all, this is a bit of a miracle, and that is why, in this tax policy too, we are not trying to direct consumption more, even to restaurants, and it would be good if the Minister of Finance also commented on this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u106	Mr President! Of course, it is quite clear that alcohol policy is a whole, if you consider, for example, that the fact that access is increased in Finland has been estimated to have a significant impact on what is imported abroad. On the other hand, this tax solution, on the other hand, has the same meaning as regards consumption and imports. Once the tax has been raised at the turn of 2008, passenger imports increased significantly, and now, if you consider this passenger import, there is no reason to underestimate it at all. Even in 2016, passenger imports have increased significantly, and this share of passenger imports, when taken into account for this total consumption, is about 17 per cent of the total. It is a very large number, and it is these decisions, both this reform of the Alcohol Act and the tax solutions, that are relevant from this point of view to the way in which Finns consume alcohol. I believe that if that alcohol is bought from the nearby store into that shopping bag, it is also drunk and consumed less than if it is dragged from abroad by those beer carts and imported in large quantities. Yes, then it means that more alcohol is consumed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u107	Mr President! I would have asked Minister Orpo — not now as a personal opinion: If, in the context of the overall reform of the alcohol law, there were to be a common view in the government parties and opposition that, in the context of the overall reform, it would be a good idea to consider that if we, with these blends of 2,8 % to 5,5 %, had our own tax category higher than that of fermented alcoholic beverages, and that would result in the tax revenue so much that we could make the VAT reduction for the 100 million-thought restaurants, would the Minister have a position that would be personally opposed, or would we, in this way, be elected representatives who want to promote Finnish employment, lose the game or will we still dream of making efforts to achieve this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u108	The speeches that have yet to be made, Mr Salonen and Mr Viitanen, and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u109	Mr President! We now seem to have a little mixed up in society about the policy measures that affect alcohol consumption, or at least the measures that come to us here to decide which are being taken around alcohol do not seem to be in the right direction. In other words, access and price have traditionally been the commonly accepted facts that influence alcohol consumption. Now we are raising taxes, but on the other hand the price is falling through the sale, while at the same time we are increasing the availability. This seems a little like doing you—me-to-you with public health in the eyes of the outside world. I hope that is not the case. Representative However, the bush removed this tax increase from the overall reform of the alcohol law, and, as Mr Räsänen has already said here, we have heard from several mouths that this tax increase has been brought precisely because of the consequences of the alcohol law. What is it now, Minister Orphan? Would a tax increase have come to us in the hall if the alcohol law were not being reformed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u110	Mr President! Of course, this is a whole when one considers that taxes are being dealt with elsewhere and that the other is the reform of alcohol law. The government itself also deals with these as a whole in its own presentations. For example, here in the draft tax law, the government itself analysed the current amendment to the alcohol law at the same time, saying in this regard: "The overall impact of the reform on the economy would be negative, according to the proposal." On the other hand, as regards this increase in consumption, the government itself states that 'as a result of the proposed amendments to the Alcohol Act, the increase in alcohol consumption is estimated to be clearly greater than the decrease in consumption resulting from the tax increase'. In any case, the outcome is that the government itself is raising the consumption of alcohol and thus the various adverse effects, and I am sure that the social costs will be hard on this government's alcohol policy overall, and that is what I am very concerned about. But now I look forward to Mr Orpo's reply and I hope that he will also comment on this health-based tax and its preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u111	Mr. Puska before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u112	Mr President! Finally, from the restaurants in Helsinki. After all, there is no point in selling strong beers from shops, kiosks and service stations, and drinking is passed on to the couches. The concern that has been expressed here seems to me to be quite genuine, and I think we need to think about measures that could really move the focus towards restaurants. On this passenger import, which is linked to this when, of course, it looks pretty bad at the port of Tallinn, I would say that about 5% of the beer that is drinking in Finland is actually from there. It is constantly decreasing and no substantial increase has taken place in the last 10 years. It's got spikes up and down. Let me say again that this tax increase in line with the proposal covers approximately the price reduction that has been in beer since 2014, and it is good that it does this, but it is not in any way directly proportional to the major effects that would result from the sale of strong beer and strong sodas in Finland at more than 10,000 sales points. So I would like this proposal to be a good and rather a normal follow-up to the increases in tobacco and alcohol taxes that have been made in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u113	I now finally give the floor to the Minister. Then let's see if there's any room for further action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u114	Mr President! I'll start with this expense tax. Unfortunately, when attempts have been made to create a sugar tax in particular, it has proved very difficult, practically impossible, to implement it. Once it has been clarified in the EU, such a sugar tax is not used as a clean form anywhere, but there are different product-specific taxes, but not a pure so-called sugar tax. It would be very difficult to do this administratively and therefore it has not been possible to move forward with it. But then to this actual proposal, or perhaps even before that: yes, of course, there is a very strong public health perspective here, and I am very pleased with the tobacco tax line that the government has had in which tobacco tax is being increased throughout this regime. That's a wise policy. I am sure that this tax increase is also important in terms of public health. However, as the opposition says many times, the government must look at the policy as a whole. Directly or not, but if, at the same time, there is a unanimous proposal from the government to reform alcohol law, which will free the sale of more powerful beers, among other things, to shops, then of course it does exist. This should mean that the supply will increase, which will probably mean that consumer prices will then fall with these stronger products, which will also have a place, both in terms of public health and financial terms, for tax increases, which will contribute to the emphasis being placed on this tax tightening on beer and wine. This will then also be able to affect the harm, particularly from a public health point of view, because it will increase the price. As far as alcohol policy is concerned, and related to restaurant alvi, I can say as my own opinion — in the longer term, now was not the time — that I do not see the point in why it is taxed so much if alcohol is consumed under controlled conditions, when in Finland the restaurant is certainly almost in prison under comparable supervision and regulation, if at the same time, for example, it is possible to enjoy it in the bush next to the restaurant, for example, through passenger imports or the opening hours of free shops. That is why, and from the point of view of employment, I would like this difference to be smoothed out in the longer term. I believe that it will then also have public health effects and will certainly also have family policy effects: drink alcohol, if you want to enjoy it, in a controlled restaurant environment rather than at home. That is why I think it would be a good development in the longer term. Now there was no chance. Alvi's fall would have been estimated at around EUR 130 million, and when we cannot verify the dynamic effects of that at the Ministry of Finance and because we want to make a balanced, responsible tax policy, we could not afford to do so now, but at some point, both in terms of alcohol policy and employment, I think it would be good to do so. Representative Myllykoski brought up:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u115	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Orpo for his reply on the longer-term reduction of VAT on restaurants. That's a good goal. But I would say to Mr Puska, when you said that this imports from Estonia are of little significance: yes, in practice it is the case that three-quarters of the unstated consumption of alcohol is specifically imported by travellers and, as I said earlier, it is estimated that passenger imports account for around 17 per cent of the total consumption of alcohol in Finland. It's remarkably large. This imports of alcohol by travellers are regularly monitored through various interviews and surveys, and these results are published three times a year. There is also very accurate information available about what is and is not having an effect. Indeed, over the last year, in these particular beer products, there has been considerable growth. I do not consider this to be insignificant in any way, and I also believe that it is necessary to improve the availability of alcohol in Finnish grocery stores.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u116	Mr President! In this respect, I should like to thank the Minister for Finance for his very comprehensive answer. Maybe that's the way it is. This is a big whole. When the question was raised just now, is it not precisely that, with the other hand, we are now in the process of reforming the alcohol legislation, which, according to all estimates, also increases the harm caused by alcohol, and when the harm increases, then the costs increase. These costs must then, of course, be covered in some way and try to reduce the impact of the increase in consumption by increasing the price. These are connected. The question then arises as to why, in advance, the costs that will then have to be covered by tax increases are first incurred. In this logic, it would be nice for one of the governments to provide the answer to why this is being done. Then, in the end, to this second whole, to alcohol given in the restaurant: That is precisely how this overall reform of the alcohol law is, of course, going to make the trade situation easier. I understand very well that traders are interested in getting new products for sale. But it does not improve this situation in restaurants, even though there are many good deregulations in this overall reform. It was therefore gratifying that the Minister raised this point that, in the longer term, we should correct the bias that we have in relation to, for example, these tax issues, where we have caused the situation, that it is so much cheaper to buy that alcohol from the store and go to the park next door to enjoy it than to go to a controlled environment where probably other people might meet. It would certainly have positive effects in our social life — at least as a reasonable user, it dares to say so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u117	Mr President! It hurts when you say "supervised circumstances." Yes, the liquor license includes monitoring certain rules of the game, but I would like us to start discussing the fact that it is better for people to enjoy the services and the service environment. They want to go to that service environment after enjoying that bagel in the bushes first. They miss the social environment where they are served, but when it’s so expensive, you have to pull those Estonian booze first, tipping at home to enjoy the expensive environment that we can enjoy there with the musicians who come to the show today at 24.00, good if not then. In other words, the whole restaurant culture could be changed if we were to moderate the taxation of alcohol so that people could come there at the time when they started to drink the night they started. But I am not an expert on taxation, whether the same producers can have, but when I know that the same manufactured products can have different taxes depending on how much it is manufactured, I thought there is at this point. And I am not sorry at this point, even if those strong beers have a higher tax rate than those who are purely made from the alcohol base, so in that sense I hope that the Minister will clarify this and then give that tip to Mrs Myllykoski that you will be able to press.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u118	Mr President! I would like to add that, all in all, at this stage, it is of course perfectly acceptable that harmful taxes should be increased at all, and we, as Social Democrats, have also supported, for example, this increase in tobacco tax, which is what is being discussed in this Chamber, but that is precisely why I would like to express a certain disappointment at the use of the term 'health-based tax', not even'sugar tax' but 'health-based tax', last autumn, and, Minister, you yourself promised here that you would start preparing such a health-based tax, and of course we were waiting for it. Now that the year has passed, another year has passed, it is not visible or heard. And we also used the same argument last autumn that when this EU became, as it were, a certain pressing need for this abolition of the sweets tax for years, it would have been a long time to prepare for, in that sense it was a pity to hear the Minister's own words. After all, it has already been revealed in this Chamber by the government parties that this has been abandoned, and that is why I asked earlier whether this information is all in all correct. But I would now like to remind you that the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health was, in fact, unanimous, including the government parties, that it was now necessary to prepare for this health-based tax, and of course I would now like to see the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health in some context – for example, they are now giving us an opinion on this law in the Committee on Finance – come back to this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u119	Mr President! At the end of this: This increase in alcohol tax is in order as part of this alcohol policy package. And perhaps now, for the sake of clarity, as far as I am concerned, if this alcohol law does not move forward, then it will certainly be necessary to reconsider this tax increase. Otherwise, too, it is good to observe what results from this tax increase. For example, Finland is already one of the tighter countries in the EU when it comes to the taxation of beer, and this can be seen in many ways here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u120	And also the representatives of Puska and Räsänen, and then definitely after these speeches the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u121	Mr President! I would have liked not to have had to open my mouth again, but as a line to Mr Mäkelä on the previous two chapters: Three-quarters of alcohol imports are from Estonia. No one will be surprised when we know which passenger rumba goes specifically to Estonia. And then this 17 percent. The good 5% I mentioned is therefore about beer, the share of beer imported from Estonia in beer drink in Finland. This 17% covers all alcohol, and it is quite clear that a great deal of strong and wine is imported from Estonia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u122	Mr President! I promise that it will be my last speech, but it is a little strange in this sense that, in general, in this Chamber, it has been used to the fact that perhaps these differences of opinion go at this government-opposition level, but in this area of alcohol taxation it would appear that there is a difference of opinion within the government, that is, a part of the government, that if this overall reform does not go forward, then there will not be this tax increase, and some then think that this tax increase will go forward, of course. In that sense, the basis for this tax increase is quite clear that if we really want to shift the focus from labour taxation towards harmful taxes, then it is precisely such changes that will have to be made. Perhaps such a small anecdote will be allowed as a last observation, that when we really have raised alcohol tax five times in Finland in the 21st century, there is one thing that unites all these increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u125	Secretary Orphan, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u126	Mr President! Just a brief word to Mr Viitanen, mainly that I do well to remember those debates from a year ago, and yes, the firm will has been to find a health-based or harmful tax or a sugar tax or something like that. These have now been clarified by us, we have seen what has been done, explained in Denmark, Norway, what is used in Britain or France, so there is no such general sugar tax or harmful tax. They have had to end up with some products where, for example, in Britain, soft drinks containing only sugar, for example, there is a higher tax, that is, this type of individual point tax. This is simply the reason that this kind of harmful tax or sugar tax has proved to be extremely difficult to implement, and I myself am sorry that there is no model for it, because when taxes need to be collected from somewhere, then somehow it would be natural that when we already tax tobacco and we tax alcohol, so why can it not then be on health-based other harmful taxes such as fat or sugar. But no model has been found, and unfortunately I cannot become such a model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u127	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 19/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u128	Mr President! Quite briefly, I would like to thank the committee for the work that has been done, for the fact that the statement of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that issued the opinions did not become registered or entail any changes which would have conflicted with the directive or the government's proposal, but that this employer-specificity here in particular is maintained and that there is also flexibility in the authorisation process and the processing of further permits, and at the same time that the Administrative Committee did not go along with the flexibility of the consideration of availability in this report on seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u129	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to improve labour mobility and improve the status of workers. Agriculture and tourism are at the heart of both, the need for seasonal labour, which cannot be filled with domestic labour. Ict benefits because it requires specialists from outside Finland. They want to make the mobility of specialist experts from EU countries to Finland more flexible. It has been discussed, among other things, why Finnish young people are no longer interested in agricultural work, vacationing, agriculture, strawberry picking and so on and how the country has changed in a few decades. Why is that, and is there something to be done about this in a country where there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed people? There are about 15,000 seasonal workers per year in agriculture. Tourist workers, for example in Lapland, suffer not only seasonal fluctuations but also the lack of decent housing for the mover in pursuit of work. This also requires a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u130	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs really goes through this government proposal in a very comprehensive way, which specifically aims to facilitate this mobility of labour and to guarantee the labour force where it needs to be, but in such a way that mobility is controlled. This is also the main idea of this whole work-related immigration: that it should be kept under control. We have certain rules of the game within which we operate and which we will then try to streamline whenever necessary. We are also able to make different exceptions to legislation, as has been done in this area, for example. All in all, a sensible reform. In this context, many people then wanted to raise the debate more widely on this consideration of the availability of labour and its abandonment, but old wisdom tells us that when a car is broken, then the tyre will be replaced, not replaced by the whole car. And these various changes, which have been made here on the availability of foreign labour, specifically guarantee that, in the jobs where this knowledge is needed, they will acquire that knowledge, provided that they comply with the commonly agreed rules of the game, but we do not, as a whole, create a situation in which we, here, become out of control and then no longer have the means to intervene on the basis of which we are allowed to come to work. It is also good to point out in this context that Sweden is the only country in the EU, the EEA and the OECD that has completely eliminated this availability exercise. It is used by all other countries, and it is probably reasonable that Finland should be in this majority group and not go to the Swedish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u131	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 12/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u132	Mr President! I wondered whether the problem of financial and debt counselling had been management, but perhaps more access to it. It is worrying that in future resources will be decreasing despite the fact that this issue is now being dealt with in relation to the administration. Of course, the good thing about this proposal and the decision is that greater coherence and equality should be achieved. I have a slight concern that the number of offices does not necessarily reach the smallest municipalities and cities, but, on the contrary, we are talking here, for example, about increasing electronic services, which easily means that the services are concentrated in large cities and then others are looking for them there. I hope this doesn't happen. However, with regard to resources, it is really, really worrying that, from 2019 onwards, financial and debt advice should be provided at a rate of EUR 1.1 million lower. We have lived in a world of low interest rates over the last few years, and if interest rates rise in the coming years, there is a fear that, for example, we will have over-indebtedness, and then it is important that we have financial and debt advice. With regard to e-services: they certainly need to be developed, but sometimes it feels like we may be a little bit out of the real world. Often a bag of unopened bills are brought in, and then we go out together to open them, and we start to find out what the accumulated debts are there. This can't be done electronically, so
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u133	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 10/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u134	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Tobacco Tax Act, which would mainly increase the tax by an average of 21%. The aim of the proposal is to gradually increase the tobacco tax in accordance with the Government Programme. In addition to VAT, a unit tax would be levied on cigars. In addition, a minimum tax on cigars would be introduced. With the proposal, the price change for more expensive cigars would be only a few per cent, i.e. this is a guide to smoking more expensive cigars instead of cheaper cigars. The less well-informed would say that it favours the cigar hobby of the gentlemen again. Currently, the tax rate for cigars and cigarillos is about one third of the retail selling price. The tobacco tax burden on cigars has doubled between 2009 and 2017. In August 2016, the new Tobacco Act entered into force, which amended the regulation on tobacco products in many respects. The changes are not yet fully in force; for example, the ban on flavourings will not enter into force until May 2020. In my opinion, this tobacco law as a whole was somewhat unfinished if it aimed at ending the use of tobacco products and other nicotine-containing products containing toxic substances for humans in Finland. In this regard, it will certainly never be completed, but I will open up a little further to the objective of the previous Tobacco Act: The aim was to achieve the ambitious goal of tackling smoking, in particular among children and young people, i.e. to prevent smoking from taking place at an early stage. This objective is pursued by the Tobacco Act through tobacco bans on minors. According to the results of the latest survey of young people’s health practices, STM 2017, young people’s smoking continues to decline and 7percent of those aged 14 to 18 in 2017 per day as against 25percent in 2001. Article 118 of the Tobacco Act prohibits the possession of tobacco by persons under 18 years of age and the importation of tobacco by persons under 63 years of age. In addition, Article 53 of the Tobacco Act prohibits the sale, supply and otherwise supply of tobacco products and smoking equipment to persons under 18 years of age. Article 109 a person who sells or otherwise disposes of a tobacco product in exchange for consideration or supplies a tobacco product to a person under the age of 18 shall commit a tobacco selling offence punishable by a fine or imprisonment for a maximum period of six months. Therefore, the passing on of a single pack of tobacco for consideration to a minor in trade is a criminal offence. The free handover of tobacco to a minor is also prohibited, but there is no penalty in the Tobacco Act. I guess you could ask, why not? Nor does the Tobacco Act provide for a punishment for the possession of a minor, and therefore, for example, the police, teacher, parent or foster parents are not entitled to confiscate or remove tobacco products from the possession of a minor. I believe that this is incompatible with the objective of the Tobacco Act and also with the Alcohol Act, which, according to Articles 60 and 60a of the Act, allows the police to remove alcoholic beverages from a minor and dispose of them by the police. The fact that a minor cannot be taken out of tobacco equipment is based on the position of the Constitutional Committee in its opinion of 23/1997, which states that the criminalisation of possession alone should be regarded as exceptional. They also feel that possession of a tobacco product does not always mean that the product is being used or even intended to be used. In just the same way, I think it is possible to say that alcohol is in possession if that is what we want. In any case, nicotine is a highly addictive substance that is not always easy to get rid of. It is therefore important that measures to reduce smoking should also seek ways of supporting different forms of weaning nicotine. It is great wisdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u135	Mr President! As I have already said in the previous debate on alcohol tax, harmful taxes are justified at this stage and can be increased, and therefore the SDP is supporting the government proposal in this proposal. I would also like to draw attention to the committee's report on this matter. We have also written it in moderation from the very point of view of how important it would be for society to be fought in such a general way to encourage people to quit smoking, and in that way people would be able to get support and various measures then in the fight that every smoker would certainly have to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u136	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-09-ps-115.u137	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, too, it is a unanimous report in the Committee on Finance, and that is no wonder, because all in all, this proposal is also based on parliamentary cooperation, in which all the parties in the working group agreed on the changes to be made to the broadcasting tax, and elsewhere in the same group, I also agreed on an important issue, namely that it was decided to secure Yle's funding for 2019 that this would be the place where these full index increases will come. I believe that this working group has done an important job: it was important that, after a number of stages, the golden grain, the decision on the issue of the YLE, was once again found in Parliament during this parliamentary term. That is why, here too, I wanted to take this opportunity to emphasise the need for unanimity on these issues. It is a tradition of decades of history and it is important that we can make a joint decision in this way. Let me say this, referring to the long discussion that took place the other week, that it was somewhat disappointing that in another context the Finns of Peru made a bill in which they were cutting very much Yle's funding. I found it very amazing in that regard, in particular:
