ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u1	Honourable Members of Parliament and good staff! This day on 5.9.2017 is a day of great joy for us when we begin our parliamentary work in the Parliament House, which has been renovated to its original dignity. The house was built as a symbol of Finland’s independence. The return of the Parliament to its house is one of the great events of the 100th anniversary of our country and a cause for pride for the people as a whole. People are interested in the Parliament House. I hope that this autumn we will be able to welcome our guests with joy and discuss democracy, Parliament and the work of a representative of Parliament in a wide range of ways. Jag hoppas också att Riksdagshusets värdiga och anrika inramning ska komma till uttryck i vårt dagliga arbete i form av ett correctt och värdigt uppträdande såväl i tal som i klädsel. Att skapa ett construktivt och framåtsträvande arbetsklimat kommer an på var och en av oss. För att nå dit behöver vi lyssna på varandra och motivera våra ståndpunkter utan att kränka någon. I also hope that the valuable and traditional framework of the Parliament House will be reflected in our daily work as a stable and dignified behaviour both in speech and in dress. Creating a constructive and forward-looking working environment is up to each of us. It helps if we listen to each other and justify our stand without offending each other. Let us work hard and look forward in a positive spirit. In the Chamber, we make all the decisions in the eyes of the little boy in the statue of the future. Jag önskar er alla väkomna till Riksdagshuset och höstsessionen 2017! I welcome you all to Parliament House and autumn session 2017!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Council of Presidents, which has the task of making proposals for a seating arrangement between parliamentary groups in the Chamber, proposes that Parliament should decide that, following the transition of Mr Ruoho to the Parliament's Assembly, the seating arrangement should be amended accordingly. The order of the parliamentary groups remains decided in the past, but the boundaries of the Coalition Party, the Centre Party, the Finnish People's Party and the Blue Parliamentary Group change as suggested by the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u3	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Good staff! Good fall, it's time to return to this hall. This government proposal brings together themes that should be reflected much more in the debate on immigration. Above all, I am talking about employment, economic growth and their conditions. For here is a proposal that all three target groups need workers from abroad right now, not sometime later and somewhere else. In fact, we are talking about issues where there is a shortage of labour now, in 2017 — a shortage of labour in sectors that are central to economic growth or to the survival of rural areas. Mr President! The proposal puts into practice the EU's seasonal work and so-called ICT Directive. This so-called internal transfer directive also has an acronym called ICT, which everyone in the European arena knows, even though it does not actually have much to do with information technology. Unfortunately, the implementation of both has been delayed. The deadline for the Seasonal Labour Directive was 30 September 2016 and the implementation of the so-called intra-corporate transfer, i.e. the ICT Directive, was 30.11.2016. Both directives are proposed to be implemented in their own way and not in the traditional way by amending the foreign law. I'll start with seasonal work. Nearly 15,000 seasonal workers come to Finland, do work and return to their home country. As a result of this work effort, an innumerable number of permanent Finnish jobs will be maintained in areas and sectors where Finnish and domestic seasonal workers are not available. As a result of the directive’s limitation, the seasonal labour law has two target groups: agriculture and tourism. I believe that in this Chamber too many people are surprised by the knowledge that Finnish agriculture has long been dependent on its seasonal workers. Every third agricultural job is filled by a seasonal worker. In addition to agriculture, tourism is another key target group of the seasonal labour law. The number of seasonal workers in the tourism sector has traditionally been high, but the need for labour has mainly been met from home. For example, the northern ski resorts have found their employees in Southern Finland. However, the situation in tourism has changed rapidly during the preparation of this law, in particular the number of tourists from the Far East has increased. The growth seems to be continuing. That's good. In addition to the increase in the number of tourists, the need for labour has changed and has contributed to the need for seasonal workers. A wide range of services have developed around traditional accommodation and restaurant activities, and it is not always possible to respond quickly to their needs. For example, we do not find enough people in Finland capable of customer service in Chinese, and yet the need for labour is immediate. With the help of seasonal work, we create the conditions for a large number of permanent jobs for Finns and for continuous growth fuelled by growing investments. Madam President! The seasonal labour law defines the conditions of entry and the rights of seasonal workers during their stay in the country. These provisions form a whole which is based on the seasonal labour directive and the Schengen Borders and Visa Code on the one hand and on the need to maintain consideration of the availability of domestic labour. In view of this background, the law provides for three different types of authorisation depending on the length of stay and the country of origin. However, the working conditions for all types of permits would be the same. Seasonal workers coming for less than three months arrive in the country either by a visa issued by the Finnish delegation or by visa-free travel. In addition to the entry conditions of the Schengen Borders and Visas Code, which I mentioned above, these persons would be subject to the conditions for working in Finland. Such conditions include a valid contract of employment or a binding offer of employment, compliance with the collective agreement on the terms of employment and proper accommodation. The starting point is the conditions applicable to the corresponding domestic worker. 3 to 6 months permits are granted by the Finnish Immigration Service in accordance with sector-specific availability considerations, where the Finnish Immigration Service monitors the supply of domestic labour and may, if necessary, proceed to a more complex procedure applicable to all permits granted for 6 to 9 months. These six- to nine-month permits are granted under a procedure equivalent to the worker’s residence permit procedure. In it, the Finnish Immigration Service grants residence permits after the TE Office has made a partial decision on the application, including an assessment of whether a domestic employee is available for the job applied for. A more detailed list of sectors containing seasonal work as required by the Directive would be provided by a Government decree. The legislation relating to the proposal would provide, among other things, for the rights of seasonal workers to health care and various benefits required by the Directive. The proposal also contains provisions which would significantly enhance the supervision of employers who employ foreign workers and, in particular, the effectiveness of controls. Madam President! The second key law in this package is therefore referred to as the ICT Act, and it concerns the Internal Transfer Directive. It concerns a significantly smaller number of workers than the seasonal labour law. The employees referred to in the so-called ICT Act for intra-corporate transfer are managers, experts and some local trainees of companies established in third countries who are sent within the same group to work at the Group office in Finland. The law does not apply to foreigners recruited by a Finnish company. As a result of this directive's limitation, this figure should remain small at least at the beginning, but perhaps more than 1000 people per year. International companies established in Finland still play a key role in this. Therefore, every effort must be made to promote their entry. This proposal aims in particular at the smooth functioning of the authorisation procedure. This proposal is also different from traditional immigration. The employee's employment relationship will remain with the posting company throughout the transfer period, but the terms of the employment relationship will be determined in accordance with Finnish legislation. They will also return to their country of origin immediately after the termination of the employment relationship or no later than three years after the entry. In addition, the Act would provide for the right to move to Finland with the authorisation granted in another EU country. The transition to less than three months is based on a simple notification. The laws presented are very timely, and there is a great need to regulate them. The implementation of two EU directives is in the background. In addition to the implementation of the directives, the main objective of both laws is to build a legal base for electronic services and digital procedures, i.e. to facilitate application. The changes seek conditions for better customer service, especially shorter processing times. At the same time, a legal basis will be established for the electronic exchange of information between labour protection and immigration authorities, which will improve the effectiveness of the supervisory work of the authorities in situations where it is not possible to increase resources. In terms of implementation, we have not only been content to register the content of the directive as domestic legislation. Our goal was to create and bring our own pieces into the puzzle where Finland will build a more attractive tourist country, which will ensure that the countryside remains widely populated, and in which the immigration administration that responds agilely to the needs of the labour market works. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is such that it cannot be sent here without a debate in committee. Minister Risikko went through the motion very well. It is therefore proposed to lay down a law on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as a seasonal worker, and this applies to a limited number of professions. This proposal describes these areas which the Minister has also mentioned, such as farms, and although unfortunately their number has fallen, the size of the farms has also increased, and it has meant that the need for external labour has increased, partly responding and responding to them. The tourism and nutrition sectors also employ significantly more and more people in Finland, and seasonal workers are also needed in this sector. Perhaps this debate could also be discussed, as Minister Lintilä pointed out, that our holidays are in the right place, for example. Would students, for example, be able to work in these seasonal jobs if our holiday schedule were different? I think it is worth considering, and with satisfaction I received this motion by Minister Lintilä. Mr President! I would also like to see a debate in this Chamber about the time for us to decide on the waiver of the need for work permits for foreign workers. It is very closely related to this issue. Mr Kai Mykkänen, Minister for Foreign Trade, rightly said that 'this would be a free way to boost economic growth in our country and open bottlenecks to growth'. Indeed, many companies are beginning to have labour shortages and labour shortages can become an obstacle to growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u8	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's objective of clarifying and harmonising labour immigration practices is good. For the Social Democrats, it is important that all employees, whether those from the People's Republic of Finland or those from other countries, are treated equally and that the rules of the game are fair and are fully in order. Finland's goal must be a responsible and human immigration policy, and it also includes controlled work-related immigration. The legislative proposal now under discussion, based on the EU Directive, will contribute to clarifying the conditions for work-related immigration. However, despite the good intentions, the proposal still needs to be clarified. This law, in particular, requires better supervision on its side. We will continue to need work-related immigration. We cannot afford to be naive either. It is particularly worrying that the government is proposing to bypass the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) when considering the availability of labour in contrast to current practice. This would mean that in areas where there is the best understanding of the need for labour — in each region, in each province — there would no longer be a proper say in carrying out the needs test. The question is: where is the subsidiarity principle? The question arises as to whether this bill is a step towards abandoning the whole need-tested system. Effective control of work-related immigration is important in order to control the other side, for example the creation of two labour markets. We cannot accept that workers' rights should be trampled on, and that is why it is better to always be proactive. We have had examples of this in Sweden. I believe that Mr Räsänen is even better able to illustrate these examples today. Ex post controls are never effective enough and they are not economically sensible either. Mr President! An effective tool would be the right of appeal of trade unions. Sub-wage should also be criminalised, as promised by the previous Minister of Justice, but this proposal has not been made by the government. As far as this means-tested exercise is concerned, I noticed that Mr Heinonen took the withdrawal from the government line. Immigration, whether humanitarian or work-related, must be responsible and sustainable. That is why we still need to consider the need for work-related immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u11	Madam President! Mr Lindtman spoke good and fine words at the end of his speech. Unfortunately, the first part of the speech did not measure up to the same level. Yes, it is incomprehensible that the Social Democrats, whose presidential candidate says that they represent transparency in Finnish society, continue to take the view — apparently, unlike Mrs Tuppurainen — that there is a need to consider the need for a foreign labour force. In other words, if we have an entrepreneur who has found an excellent employee, even in Ukraine, who would be willing to continue and hire this person, we should ask the authorities whether it would be possible to find another person in the EU to work for this Ukrainian worker. This is what you are in favour of. In Finland in 2017, you are in favour of an entrepreneur having to obtain permission from the authority to hire a good employee. Then there are these asylum seekers. Many of them could receive work-related permission, but access testing is also an obstacle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u12	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Zyskowicz's speech began with a very promising start and had a heavy assessment. I understand that he joined the representative. Lindtman's opinion on a responsible immigration policy, including this security situation, a common sensible response. However, the consideration of the need for foreign labour imports from outside the EU is something the government has hitherto expressed this view on. Is it the case that the Coalition Party is disengaging itself from the Government Programme? I have noticed in the last few days and earlier in the Chamber that Mr Zyskowicz has been the one who has indicated what the position of the government is. Fortunately, he withdrew the strange decision to criminalise helping people, but I am surprised that you are now resigning from this very sensible line of government that, if there is a situation in the country where there are no perpetrators, then they will even be imported from outside the EU, but if there are people here, then of course they must be given the opportunity to do this work. Everyone now understands that these half a million unemployed cannot be left alone. Our mission
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u13	There were so many requests for answers that it is now possible to have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u14	Mr President! In such a situation, I think it is good to have a debate on whether there are workers in all sectors. Of course we agree that it would be important and wonderful for us to find a job for every Finn who is unemployed. That is not the opposite of this, but we now have a number of companies that have certainly also contacted the Social Democrats, because Mrs Tuppurainen is quite right in the same line as in the middle of the Chamber and we are right on the right side of the Chamber that we need more labour. Mr Zyskowicz rightly pointed out that what is bad about, for example, when a foreigner, such as Ukrainian, comes to Finland and would like to work in Finland on Finnish working conditions. It would not create two labour markets, but would serve Finnish economic growth and Finnish employment in a good way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u15	President! There have been no attempts to communicate, but this is something you can think about. Of course, immigration must be controlled, but what is essential is that we do not create the impression that Finnish unemployed and foreign unemployed are set against each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u21	Madam President! Indeed, Finland is in a situation where there is a need for labour. I am referring, for example, to the situation in Varsinais-Suomi, south-west Finland, where it seems that the workforce is once and for all running out. Then the foreign labour force will also become an alternative here. Even when I am in favour of all the streamlining of standards, it is also necessary to do what is necessary to streamline the standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u22	Mr President! The Finns supported the maintenance of the needs test when we were in the government, and with joy I greeted the SDP’s attitude here. We are also very concerned about two labour markets. It is also a question of opening up child allowances and child care allowances also for workers arriving in the country. I wonder what the price tag is on this one. I found it interesting that when we discussed the labour force it was the SDP, which actually started a discussion on the arrival of the workforce and terrorism in the same sentence. We're usually accused of fomenting fear. However, I would like to say to the SDP that inciting fear and discussing matters are quite different. People want to talk about things and talk about them, that's what they always say. But to return to this point: the Finns of Peru would indeed be in favour of maintaining the need-tested process, and this does not add to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u23	Mr President! From the point of view of employment, care for labour-intensive areas is extremely important, and there are two ways to do this: The second is that we are developing tools to search for foreign labour to fill the narrowness that is in Finland. The second way is that we are investing in education and training, especially in labour market policy. Together, there may also be a solution. But when it comes to the foreign labour force, and especially when it comes to free entry on the basis of work, it is worth considering that rights and responsibilities are balanced. At the moment, our problem is that our control system is not working. We all know that health and safety at work is going to be extremely unpleasant. We do not have enough equipment, we do not have enough people to monitor these exploitations and we do not even have the legislation in order. Then, if we look at penalties, the problem is that our punishment for an abusive company that misuses the workforce is so small that the benefit the company receives is greater. If you compare Finland and Germany, for example, then in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u25	Mr President! I and four other fellow Members of Parliament are collecting names this week for a legislative initiative to abandon access, not because of a shortage of labour, because there is already as much labour available in the EU as anyone can hope for and the problems associated with access testing are not such as to affect the availability of labour. These problems are more related to the bureaucracy which is caused by the exercise of access to the data and to the lack of autonomy of the workers it produces. For example, a good example of bureaucracy is that the cook cannot do the dishes, because these are different sectors and he has been given permission to consider the availability of the chef when he comes to work in Finland, even if it makes sense from the point of view of a small restaurant company to do another job and thus to maintain both business and employment. The autonomy of the workers is considerable...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u26	Madam President! Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lindtman is right about this excellent speech, especially the rest of it, in which you called for the responsibility of politicians. We all now, political decision-makers, have a huge responsibility for what kind of language is used and that no excesses are committed. However, I find it quite worrying that we have at least two parties in this House whose chairmen have declared that helping illegal residents would be a love of neighbor. This kind of language easily leads to events such as what we saw yesterday in Jyväskylä, for example. We should also remember in this language that it is no longer a demonstration at a time when officials are prevented from carrying out their official duties. This is an act of opposition to the law, and I hope that all parties will say this out loud and openly to their own supporters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u27	Mr President! Mr Kärnä draws attention to the essential question: how do we ensure that, also in the case of returns, immigration policy is managed in every way intelligently. It should also be managed in a humane way, which is probably the reason why we have raised the problems that have been experienced, for example, when we consider that an 8-month-old baby has to be sent back to Afghanistan — or in fact he has never been to Afghanistan, he was born in Finland. This type of situation should be prevented. But today we are talking about the need-to-work process. I would suggest, Mr Kärnä, that, when we are both members of the Administrative Committee, we put this matter on the table and study it in peace with the police and then think about what can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u28	Mr President! That is exactly what Mrs Parviainen said from the back right: this will certainly be taken over in the Administrative Committee. In this way, the beginning of the autumn season must take a constructive line from here in the opposition. It is not the government that is constantly being called: this proposal, which is now coming to us, is on the face of it an excellent one. We all know that tourism, the restaurant sector, and agriculture in particular, are failing. This is already the case now that we have these Ukrainian farmers. That question then again these refugees, jihadists, these proselytisms and this sort of thing have nothing to do with it, so that we talk about something quite different. There is no need to confuse people who enter the country in any way. But this is the strange thing about this removal of the needs test we were talking about here. I can tell you straight away that we are not going to be able to remove the needs test. In other words, from the opposition, the Finns defend the government program that was drawn up at the time, which says that this means-tested will remain. Somehow it seems that the present government will no longer share the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u29	Mr President, värderade talman! Mr Kontula mentioned this initiative to remove the question of labour availability. I am one of the people behind it. Finland needs more work-related immigration. All obstacles must be removed in order to facilitate the availability of labour, and the section of the Aliens Act on labour availability needs to be abolished, because this government proposal is not strong enough to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u30	Mr President! Finland is now experiencing an exceptionally strong period of economic growth, and our exports are also excellent. And when companies go around Finland, whether in Ylöjärvi, Alajärvi, Rovaniemi or almost anywhere, the biggest thing they talk about and what message comes to us is that there is a shortage of labour. Then we must act quickly. Of course, it is a good thing that as many Finns as possible and foreigners already living in Finland find employment, but those companies need that workforce quickly and smoothly, and when such a responsible, big employer, which I too have visited several times this summer, they would certainly take it from Finland if they could. They have a need, and in order for economic growth to continue, we need to eliminate this issue of access quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u31	Madam President! After all, this government proposal is not really a question of access testing, but of course it is a matter of close proximity, and it would be interesting to hear what the government's policy here is, because, at least within this proposal, this consideration of availability is in any case. However, the government’s proposal on ICT and then on the one hand on intra-corporate transfers on the other hand provides the legal means of coming from third countries to work in the EU, and this has been done largely with Finnish powers in the European Parliament — that is to say, Liisa Jaakonsaari was there as the S&D Group’s rapporteur and signed as the EPP rapporteur —and for this purpose, for example, questions such as the question of availability was left to be decided at national level. In other words, the directive itself does not directly take a position on it, then it is the authorities themselves in each Member State who decide. It has to be said that, at that stage of the directive, it was already possible to make a lot of social security restrictions which would have been very problematic for us in terms of housing-based social security. So, as a clue to the people of Peru, this approach could have been far worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u32	Mr President! This sitting started out so well in this new fine House that I think Mr Lindtman gave a very good speech. It was value-based, proper, and I am sure that many here can agree with those principles. What is now quite confusing — and I must say this in this Chamber too — is that in the second speech, which was used here, Mr Heinonen, and then Mr Zyskowicz, clearly now fell out of the government line. Here is the government's proposal, in which the question of availability is in, and the members of the government party, the coalition, are immediately going to demand it out. In other words, the very question is now essential, Mr President, that what is the government's line in this regard? It cannot be that a motion is coming in here, and as soon as the minister has presented the motion, the representatives of the Coalition Party are removed from it, then start questioning the opposition or someone else's views on the matter. What is it, President?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u33	Madam Speaker! We are in a great new hall, a new-old hall, but fortunately something permanent has been left out of that evasive space: it is Mr Viitanen's constant confusion. It is safe to note that it will also continue in this new framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u38	Mr President! It may be that the amazement would be a little less if this government line were a little clearer. Here the Deputy Minister of Government — I am correcting: Mr Zyskowicz — represented a different line, as did Mr Heinonen, as the Minister has just presented. It would be good to know now, someone would tell us the government line. As far as access is concerned, the word "consideration" is concerned. For example: if the construction sector has labour shortages, as interpreted by the Ely Centre, in this region, in Uusimaa, it has been removed, as was previously deleted for cleaning or in Ostrobothnia for coders. That is, if there is a narrowness, consideration can be made and it can be removed. But it is a question of whether, if this is completely abandoned, it will become uncontrollable. Look at the examples in Sweden. There are huge resources to be put into ex post control, and when combined with housing-based social security, every misregistration will eventually result in:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u39	Let us take Mr Kurvinen, Mr Myllykoski, Mr Huhtasaari, and then it is Minister Risiko's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u40	Madam President! I myself decided to participate in this debate on the new old Parliament Hall when it comes to an important issue and a very important issue in relation to the future of Finland. Finland has been going through immigration policy for the past two years in a rather negative climate, but I claim that this government proposal, which is under discussion, is very positive from the point of view of immigration policy. If you think of ordinary Finns, how many people are against coming to work in Finland, working in Finland, paying taxes, building our society? I can say from South Ostrobothnia that it would be difficult for fur farms to find workers and it would be difficult for many farms to find workers if there were no work-related immigration. The Ukrainian farmers have already been mentioned on several occasions. They've also bought houses there since. To conclude, Mr President, I say in all immigration policy that the law must be respected, the Finnish law, Finnish working conditions, is the question of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u41	Madam President! The good thing about this, of course, is that people who want to work come to the labour pool, and what is particularly good about this is the requirement of a collective agreement on employment and the conditions that exist. It's good here. The only thing you want is that if the permit process stalls, it needs to be developed. Long processing times are not for anyone's benefit, they need to be developed and resources created. But it is quite clear that whether we talk about this or take a step forward, the authorities need to know, the authorities need to be able to assess that need — and this too is particularly important. I would like to say that this is a sort of risk group, perhaps in a positive sense, but yes, we must have the possibility for the health and safety authorities to check that this new group is in precisely the employment relationship required by the collective agreement,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u42	Mr President! Do you want a cheap labour market in Finland? It's completely honest that the coalition admits that they want to. Therefore, in the low-wage sectors, there has been a need-tested approach, because the rest of us do not want a cheap labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u45	Minister Risikko, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u46	Madam President! Now that the oatmeals and the wrinklings are a little bit confused here, let me remind you of what's happened here: The introduction of this directive into Finnish legislation was already launched before this government, and the preparation of this directive was originally carried out on a tripartite basis, and there was no provision for a three-pronged consideration of availability. However, we decided in this government that there would be three types of permits, i.e. if there is less than 3 months, there will be no availability consideration, and then, if there is 3 to 6 months, the Finnish Immigration Service will be considering availability, and then, if there is 6 to 9 months, then there will be an additional examination by the Employment and Economic Development Office. But why did we want to speed up? That is precisely why Mr Kontula made an excellent speech here. For this reason: when it comes to seasonal workers, it cannot be that it takes six months to apply for a permit when the snow is already melting before the seasonal worker gets here. Then, ladies and gentlemen, you have agreed to do this yourself. You can't do this. When this law was made and prepared, you were involved in this. It is also important to note that these provisions will strengthen the supervision of employers. Here are all the elements for which this has been done: to streamline, to allow employees to come here, and we will also be able to keep those jobs here in Finland when we have, for example, those tourists. This applies to tourism and agriculture. Jobs and work-related immigration will be increased in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u47	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u48	Mr President! I, too, would like to pay tribute to this proposal and to Minister Risiko for the very fact that this system, which works on its own merits, is being maintained. Yes, there must be clear rules of play, and it is especially relevant to people from abroad. We must treat them in a responsible manner and in such a way that they also get their rights, and that includes taking care of wages and other employment benefits. Then it must be borne in mind that Finland, like other countries, provides social security on the basis of its place of residence. If we talk about the release of entry so that an employer can take it from anywhere in the world, then when a person comes here, there can be no way that he can be sent out of here when it is stated that there is no job to be found, but we will then take responsibility for these people. This country is not like Switzerland, which has so far acted in such a way that, when it comes to the low economic cycle, it is said that go away. So we must act in a responsible way, and that is what this means. The government could do its job and speed up the process of this means-tested exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u49	Mr President! This is a very important debate. During the summer, when all the representatives were sure to go around a lot of events and in that area of my own in Kainuu and North Ostrobothnia, I also met entrepreneurs who really brought this message that growth is really touching. It is especially there in Northern Finland, and it has been a pleasure to see that Kainuu is now at the forefront of the statistics in a positive way. We have the fastest reduction in unemployment in Finland, and the particular need for workers would be in the tourism sector, for example in the metal industry and also in the mining industry — there will be more mining than Terrafame — and we will think about the bioeconomy: we are looking for a major investment, an investment decision of around EUR 1 billion for next year, hopefully, and we really need workers there. The reform of vocational education and training is a major source of more skilled labour. But we need to make the workforce move more from unemployment areas within Finland to those areas where there are job vacancies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u50	Madam President! This debate went well, by the way, when we talked about the government's proposal, as is usually said in this Chamber, the opposition against the government. There was a little talk, but then representatives of the coalition began to talk about either their personal passions or the party's passions for the complete dismantling of the availability exercise, and it disrupted this debate. If the debate takes place, even on the basis of its legislative initiative or otherwise, it is another place and then it must raise the issues that need to be dealt with in that context: what are the supervisory resources, what are the control possibilities, whether the right of collective redress comes to trade unions, whether underpaid and so on. But that's another thing. We should now have discussed this government proposal, which includes the maintenance of the needs test.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u51	Mr President! I think we are talking about just the right thing. If one wonders whether we need to do according to the government program, in some cases it is also necessary to assess whether we are living in the same situation as when the government program was made. At the moment, we are experiencing strong growth. We clearly have a number of places where workers are needed. As Mrs Tuppurainen said here, work creates new work. It is also the financial basis for our welfare society. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that our demographic pyramid is a little tricky, and there is also reason to ask: if we need more factors, why are we closing the doors? And the second question is whether the removal of the need-tested process could also increase our competitiveness and increase investment in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u52	Madam President! I would like to remind you of the same point that Mrs Lauslahti has just mentioned: the future decades and the dependency relationship. We are faced with a situation in which there is simply not enough hand pairs in relation to the number of people outside the labour force, which leaves us with the option of either significantly increasing our retirement age or cutting back on the promise of service that society has made today. There is only one option left for us, and that is that we are taking more people of working age into the country. And it is hard to imagine a better alternative than the people that companies are willing to recruit directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u53	Mr President! Now that this debate has gone into this question of availability, it is appropriate to go over a few things about it. Perhaps the first point is that there seems to be a great contradiction here in the Chamber with this government proposal and, in particular, with the contributions from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. You would think that this government proposal would largely achieve the results of what has come from that side of the Chamber in relation to this greater availability of labour. With regard to this question of access, it is worth remembering that we have, for example, the following: In 2016, positive residence permits for the labour force have therefore been granted to a total of just under 6000 people. So 82% of all applications are positive. So it's not that hard to come here. Secondly, if, for example, we look at specialist experts, we have received a thousand such applications and 98% of them have been positive decisions. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u54	Madam President! In this debate on the Social Democrats it has been suggested that we would have talked about a completely free entry. That's not what we've been talking about. On the other hand, Mr Huhtasaari, there has been talk here that the assembly would promote a cheap labour market. This is not the cause of the cheap labour market, nor is that the issue here — nor is it what we have spoken. This is a good proposal, as has been said in this debate. This has been supported by the ranks of both the centre and the assembly, and here it is precisely the right way to consider what needs to be done. But then the situations to which we have wanted to take the debate are also such that there is a genuine need for the company. They have a job, they have a factor, they have a valid collective agreement, TES. The need is there, and we think that it would be enough for a worker to come to Finland, for example, from Ukraine, to work with Finnish working conditions, with Finnish wages and to create more well-being in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u56	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Indeed, the government's proposal does not include the deletion of the availability test, and I am therefore pleased that this has now been brought to the debate within the lines of the government. If you compare Finland and Sweden, Stockholm will win Helsinki between 125 and 19 in the number of branches of international companies, and that is no wonder. If one country offers an environment where you can freely hire anyone you want, whether domestic or foreign, the scale has already automatically tilted to that country. We need to focus on what would make Finland as competitive as possible and not get stuck in partial optimization at the expense of the whole. Of course, there has been research into this: A study completed at the University of Örebro in 2013 states directly that hiring and increasing exports of a foreign background has a direct correlation with the export company, and that would be good for us Finns to understand. We live in an export-dependent economy. I therefore hope that the government will take into account the good initiative taken by Mr Kantola and some others last week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u57	Mr President! It is good that Finnish fields grow and work, even though profitability is very poor. It is known that cauliflowers remain in the fields and the price per kilo of cucumber for the farmer can be only 10 cents. During the last few decades, many domestic holdings have worked for foreign seasonal workers. Most of them come to work on a visa. Many of them are already second-generation workers on plantations, and according to farmers, their skills and work motivations are at a good level. Trust between employers and employers is often at a high level. It is important that the work permits of these good workers are fluent. However, there has been a signal from the field that asylum seekers' employment programmes are taking on a foothold from seasonal workers. I would like to ask the Minister that in the future, seasonal workers who have worked in Finland for years will be able to have a smooth access to work in Finnish plantations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u58	Mr President! Here too, when this example of Sweden is often mentioned, it is good to remember the other side which has gone to Sweden when this consideration of availability has been abandoned. It has meant there that illegal trade in work permits has increased, that trafficking in human beings has increased, and that this work-based immigration has also been used as a channel for humanitarian immigration. In other words, it is also good that we should be honest in the debate about the examples that this amendment of the law has led to in Sweden, so that we are not completely naive in Finland either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u59	Madam President! If we are confusing immigration policy and collective bargaining policy with such a debate, then this is going to be very difficult. We are talking about people here and we are generally referring to the employee side, but it is good to remember that they are with people and entrepreneurs need more labour. There is an urgent shortage of skilled factors in certain sectors. There's been a mention of coders, an ict area in North Ostrobothnia. These coders are needed here in Helsinki. For example, the boat industry in Ostrobothnia requires hundreds of workers, hundreds of employees. In the field of security, hundreds of new factors are urgently needed here in Finland. So we should focus on how we solve these problems in such a way that it serves society as a whole, i.e. both entrepreneurs and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u60	Mr President! In Olkiluoto, I became an opponent of the availability test when I studied the construction workers and found that the workers in the availability analysis had a salary that was hundreds of euros lower for the same reason. In my later career as a researcher, I came across the fact that a significant proportion of the victims of trafficking in human beings had the permission required for the examination of availability. This is due to the fact that access testing provides a mechanism that undermines the autonomy of the worker and the ability to intervene in his working conditions, even in a situation where there is a clear breach of all laws and regulations. It creates a relationship with the employer that is not in any way healthy, and also a situation in which it is impossible for the authorities to intervene by means of control and to find out what is at stake. This is the main reason why I am driving away the availability test.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u61	Mr President! The Coalition Party has raised the debate on the removal of the need for work permits. This was just done here by Mr Heinonen, among others. This has also been done by Minister Mykkänen in the past. Furthermore, in August, Mr Lehti raised the issue of the abolition of the generality of collective agreements. Mayor Vapaavuori said that the capital region in particular needs a significant number of immigrants to fill the labour shortage. We have been talking about labour shortages for decades, but unfortunately we still have hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in Finland despite economic growth. I think it would be best to take measures in Parliament so that Finnish unemployed people can find employment. We Finns are opposed to the removal of the needs test, which was made clear by Eerola and Huhtasaari. On the other hand, taxation must be used to improve employment in order for Finns to be able to find employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u62	Mr President! Access testing is a problem, especially for small and medium-sized technology companies that need foreign skills to grow. Of course, they will get the permits for such a person later on, but that process is often so heavy that such a small company does not have the resources to do so. They won't even go to it when they know it could take months. Often the project for which the expertise was originally needed has ended at the time when it is acquired from abroad to Finland. In other words, this is not the problem as such, but the problem is that this requires too much resources for these companies, especially for small companies, and it takes far too long.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u63	Madam President! I would like to raise this issue of social security: After all, working for less than four months will not open up this housing-based social security system either for those from the EU and the EEA regions or for those from third countries. In other words, this debate, for example, on strawberry pickers or other short-term workers who work for less than three months, does not affect this Finnish social security issue at all. I would therefore hope that this type of argument would not be used in such a general way, especially since a reasonable amount of work was done in that European Parliament, that it was precisely this type of demarcation that could be kept there. I would also like to remind colleagues that we have a so-called single permit combining this work permit and residence permit, and that is one such element that has sought to reduce this bureaucracy. This too would be a good thing to remember. It has nothing to do with seasonal workers or ICT itself, but it is one of these instruments which have already been sought to facilitate the possibility of entering and staying in the EU from third countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u64	Three more debatable speeches before moving forward in the debate: Mr Juvonen, Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u65	Madam President! Here in the government's proposal on the preparation of the matter, we are told that different views have been expressed and that they have varied widely and have also been contradictory in some respects. Would you, Minister, have something to say about what is there — something that has obviously been changed quite a bit since the original? It has already been pointed out here that the Finns of Peru support the further validity of the labour permit and needs test, and you raised the issue of social security, Mr Essayah. However, I would like to ask the Minister: is there some fundamental problem here that this would open up Finnish social security for workers from third countries in an excessively broad and generous manner? Mr Lindtman, in your speech you spoke of security, that is one-sided. It is indeed it, and the basic Finnish themes have been work, security and hope — and still have been, for years. Of course, it is important that people are given work in the performance. In my opinion, employment and labour in Finland do not meet, and that is the problem of encounters
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u66	Mr President! Indeed, it is clearly the case that Parliament should take a closer look at this issue so that we know what the current practice is. I see in the debate that there is quite a multitude of misunderstandings here, or that there is no proper knowledge of what is the current practice. When Mr Östman was very concerned about the coders, the coders are allowed to come here, the company is allowed to take coders from outside, they are not affected by this means-tested. This is the same situation in the field of expert work: the company is free to take people here, because it has come to the conclusion that we do not have sufficient supply in these areas. In agriculture, we have had this situation for a long time that can be taken from outside the EEA countries. Then it is one thing that there is no total freedom: if there are a considerable number of people in the unemployment card — whether it is a nurse or a teacher or a cook — then it is not allowed to take. Is it not reasonable to offer first to those who are unemployed here? Otherwise, we'll have to pay those unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u67	Madam President! In this debate, the Social Democrats have rejected some kind of full liberalisation that has not been demanded, at least not within the coalition. Mr Heinonen has already responded well, but I shall try to clarify to them what is going on. Today, if an entrepreneur who has found a good employee to whom he pays a salary under the laws and the TES wants this employee to be his permanent employee, he will have to ask the TE Centre if there might be another person in the EU to replace him. [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u68	Mr. Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u69	Mr President! When we talk about what kind of labour reserve we have in place, theoretically speaking, and as it is, there are 20 million in the whole of the EU. But when it is done — Mr Räsänen can correct me if I am wrong — then it is precisely the recruitment, the possibility and the difficulty of the company in that area that will be considered. That is why we have regionally liberalised access to certain professions in certain provinces, such as the construction sector and the cleaning sector in Uusimaa in the past, for which there have been many different views. Availability and consideration — it contains both words. Mr President! I would ask you once again to look there in Sweden. Yes, in Sweden, the abandonment of access testing has led to a number of shady men using it as a channel for non-work-related immigration. They've been selling work permits and so on. The situation is that there is no right of appeal in Finland, the payment of underpaid wages has not been criminalised and, whenever it gets to the government, the majority will be cut as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u70	I now turn to Minister Risiko, for a maximum of three minutes. I'll ask you to come to that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u71	Madam President! In fact, this is a very good debate because this debate has taken place along the way. I will just remind you again if not everyone was present at the time when I said this, that the initial preparation was therefore made on a tripartite basis and that there was no proposal to include the needs test in this implementation of the seasonal labour directive in Finnish legislation, but we then came to the conclusion, for these very reasons, that it would also be possible at some point to carry out the needs test, but, at the same time, we did a little bit as a compromise on how to move forward in order to streamline these processes, and that is exactly what employers are hoping for. The question was then asked whether there is now a risk that social security will now increase in some way. It's not like there's going to be an increase in social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u79	Mr President! If I first go through this government proposal myself and then extend a little perspective to the question of availability, which is something we have been talking about in this Chamber and what we seem to have the most ambiguities about, which is what it actually means. In this Government's proposal for legislation on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers and on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of intra-corporate transfer and certain related laws, this objective really clarifies and harmonises the immigration and mobility of workers and their provisions, and these objectives are fully justified. In recent years, there has been a lot of discussion about this, and how we will also be able to facilitate and promote this immigration of the labour force, both within the EU and then in Finland. And it is quite clear that in Finland we will need work-related immigration in the future and we will need skilled workers and special experts here. Well, then it's good to get into this situation we have at the moment. At the moment, we have an increasing number of work-related immigration. As a benchmark, it is good to take the year 2016, when 5770 residence permits were issued on the basis of work, and this actually represented 82% of positive decisions. It cannot therefore be concluded that it would be somewhat difficult to obtain a work-related residence permit if 82% of all decisions were positive. And the number of applications for work-related residence permits has thus been rising for several years. Then we'll see what the basis for granting a residence permit here. First of all, work-related immigration involves granting a residence permit to a company, which may change the job. This avoids the problem raised here by Mr Kontula that the cook can act as a dishwasher. If you are operating within the same company and you have been authorised to do so, you can do so. Then there is another type of permit where permission is granted for a specific job that has come to be performed in Finland, and if you happen to get a better offer from the next employer, for example, for the same job, you can go directly to that job. And when we often have this debate from the very point of view of whether it is possible to have experts here, I would remind you that we still have a faster procedure for granting a residence permit, for example, for specialists or researchers, than — a lot of talk about these low-wage sectors — such as cleaners or shopkeepers. And with regard to specialist experts, it is good to remember — I raised the statistics for 2015 and 2016 just in case — that a total of 988 applications for a specialist residence permit have been made from Finland in 2015 and 985 positive permits have been granted. Only three persons applying for a specialist’s authorisation have received a negative decision, i.e. three of them. The corresponding figure for 2016 was a total of 1010 applications, of which 992 and 18 were positive. This is the measure we are talking about here. When we talk about this work-related immigration, it is good to go over this whole thing. The most important areas where we have negative decisions are then, in general, these are the areas in which we have a large supply of labour both in Finland and then in the EU and the EEA regions, and we usually talk about these so-called less-paid sectors, for example. The most common reasons for these negative residence permit decisions are either a lack of language skills or an unclear identity when applying for a residence permit. So why do you get a negative decision? Either there is no language skills or the application for a residence permit is incomplete. These are the main reasons. And then, when we look at this period for granting residence permits, when this government proposal also seeks to speed up these processes, which is a completely, totally correct objective, and that is what we must do, for example, at the moment we have a 37-day residence permit for specialists, that is, 37 days. In public, it has been discussed that it takes four months to obtain a residence permit here. That is not entirely true, but when you look at them in a sector, where we have the greatest time periods in these residence permits, they relate to the pursuit of a business and other work. It's gonna take a lot longer than this. Then it is good to really go over this regional reflection. So even at the moment, if there is a need for a labour force in any of our regions, a solution can be made in that area that is not being applied. This has been done, for example, in Northern Ostrobothnia, where coders need to be recruited more quickly — where, by the decision of the TE Offices, access testing is not required, where a company can hire a coder as it wishes — and this has been done in Uusimaa for cleaners and, for example, for the construction industry. And when such a need comes to the region, it is quite clear that it is reasonable for the region to be able to consider that, if there is no labour force for these professions and the labour force for us and for the EU or the EEA region, it can also be imported from elsewhere, and there can be a derogation from this access test. At the end of the day, I will go over these examples in Sweden. It is quite true that in Sweden in 2008 this examination of availability was abolished, where the number of applications has increased. That is quite clear. Where have you seen the most growth? I've seen it in the cleaning business as well as in the construction business. There, too, central growth has not come to this level of expertism, which is what we always want to speed up most with these speeches. In Sweden, a very large number of operators have come to the conclusion that this simply happens to be the case that, in general, ex ante control is cheaper than ex post monitoring. And there has also been a huge increase in resources for this ex post control, because there have been abuses, and these abuses relate both to the illegal trade in work permits and to the direct trafficking of human beings and also to the use of the occupational migration route on a humanitarian basis. In other words, instead of talking about this work-related immigration, it is worth concentrating all our energy on what we can do to shorten these residence permit processes so that we can get that decision more quickly, whether positive or negative, because it is in the interests of both this applicant and the employer and also Finland. It is clear that in the future we will need more foreign labour, and there will certainly be measures that can be taken, such as this government proposal that we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u80	Mr President! One specific point I would like to make about this very good and competent speech: that this is all linked to the fact that these employment relations, which are also being carried out by this government proposal, are subject to supervision. At this point too, the specialists who work in Finland are also in a special position. We authorities have two different practices: those who have received permission through the TE Centre are required to have a certain level of pay, but then the Finnish Immigration Service accepts that there are approximately EUR 3000 monthly earnings when working in Finland, although the EU Blue Paper requires a minimum monthly salary of EUR 4000. In other words, when we have a foreign workforce — a job promised to them — or perhaps they come here in the next process to seek work for their own profession — we must remember that supervision is in the interests of their employees and also that companies are still in the same competitive position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u82	Mr President! Mr Räsänen's speech was very reassuring. Thank God we have an Administrative Committee with representatives who take a look at these issues and know what the situation is, that we are not just dependent on 'black feeling and someone is saying something'. Knowing current legislation and practice is already a significant step forward in understanding this issue. There has been much more enthusiasm in this debate today and in the public debate that we now need to open up the borders and get out of the way. When you go in there and see what the reality is, unfortunately, these many speeches about labour shortages are phenomena in a really limited area — a really limited area. We still have the main problem of having almost half a million people without work when we look at all the open unemployment — not only those who are jobseekers, but also those who are in training or training or other specific activities, not to mention those who have withdrawn from the labour market because there is no work available. I am so long-term, as Mr Viitanen did, that I remember when this previous debate took place — I do not know how many others here will remember. This is not the first time this has been discussed in this Chamber. It was in 2007 when we had Matti Vanhanen’s bourgeois government — even then, the bourgeois government. And it decided that now that we have rid ourselves of the demos, let us open the doors, and the Minister of Immigration was set up. It was Astrid Thors, by the way. Then it was decided that this celebration would begin. And what happened? As is often the case in the past, the economy turned to decline and was dealing with fast-growing unemployment. Then there was the phenomenon that the Minister of Immigration Astrid Thors, who had been put into the government's common policy, was the first to reject the 'Holy Peter' — the coalition came and said that after the 2008 municipal elections we had nothing to do with this immigration policy. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u85	Madam President! Indeed, thank you, Mr Räsänen, for the very good and good examples of the speech. I think that this debate has left or that misunderstandings have gone into traffic perhaps at the time when I think Mr Heinonen said that work permits should be removed — if I have heard correctly. He said we should remove the work permits. At that point I began to wonder that, just because this has nothing to do with the question of availability, and whether he really meant work permits or the abolition of the examination of availability, because even if the examination of availability was removed, that does not mean that workers coming to Finland from third countries should not still have a work permit. Jonah Räsänen well put forward what again difficult practices and abuses it may be leading to. But it certainly has to be wondered that, at the moment, this opposition seems to have almost the most support for this government proposal in this form. I know that this exercise of access, which, as it were, has been a bit of a sideshow in this debate, will certainly share views. Even in my own group, I know that there is a view that thinks it could be dismantled. I myself am one of those who think that, as it were, gradually and with certain sectors being monitored, as is already the case at the moment, it is good for us to move forward on this issue. We have areas in which there really is a huge demand for skilled labour, but then, as has been pointed out here, it would be strange to take outside workers if we also have unemployed people in the same sector in Finland. In that sense, it can be said that this government proposal can be well supported. Mrs Myllykoski has also raised the important point that this control is also one of these issues. It is in the interests of an honest entrepreneur that we have good supervision. If you want to be in the Finnish market competing on the same terms and want to win contracts, it is really important that you play with the same rules, and that is why this supervision is important in this matter. — — — — Maybe just a few more words I'll tell you about that talking room. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, in relation to this issue of social security, as I said before, when working here in Finland for less than four months and staying does not trigger this social security, our housing-based social security, and in that sense, most of the workers working here in Finland who come to the seasonal jobs of agriculture, for example, will not be faced with these questions, which, in other words, will be the case with workers from the EU countries, for example, for child allowances and home care support abroad. But when that stay here in Finland takes place for less than four months, then we do not have this type of problem. In that sense, it could be said that there was a great deal of work being done in the European Parliament on this issue, that this delimitation was achieved precisely in such a way that Finnish social security does not go off. It was very difficult to explain it to the representatives of many other countries, which is why we cannot say that, from the very first working day on, the strawberry picker will have access to the entire Finnish social security palette, and this was an important demarcation that was made there. But then, last but not least, this ICT is an internal transfer. This was because this so-called blue card, or this blue card system of experts, turned out to be unworkable, and it has certainly not brought these experts into the EU. I recall that when — well, whether good or bad — Stephen Elop came to lead Nokia, for example, he would not have fulfilled the conditions of this blue card. I do not know whether it would have been better for the Finnish industry if this were the way to stop him, or not, but in any case it shows what standards were set for the Blue Card card. In that sense, this ICT may be an improvement in making it possible for these companies to move from one country to another, but I suspect that this too is a rather rigid system. This was accompanied by fears that, for example, coders will be transferred from India within the company or that a European company will be set up as a subsidiary in India, so that cheap coders can be transferred from India as experts to the actual headquarters in the EU. In that sense, these restrictions and, could you say, the clauses relating to working conditions were tightened up. What remains a little unclear to me is the so-called forwarding of these internal transfers, i.e. when a person comes to a particular country and has the possibility of moving to another EU country within the same company, whether there was something left that might still require better control. Can this lead to a certain form of recycling, in which perhaps the first company to receive it is actually responsible, for, say, some reason that there will be some problems or, for example, some abuses in the area of the EU? What is the country’s responsibility then? I'm still not sure what's going on. I have not been able to complete the government's proposal in that respect. But, as Mr Heinäluoma has said here, I am sure it is good that, through this government's proposal, we now have this debate on the conditions under which we can come to Finland today from third countries, on the one hand, from the EU countries, which employment relationships, the length of employment relationships that open up our social security, which do not. Indeed, these are very important issues in the open labour market to go through and clarify in Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u86	Madam President! Thank you to all your fellow Members. It is rare to see such a debate, in which we can stand very unitedly behind this excellent government proposal — not much criticism has been received.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u89	Madam President! In its general context, therefore, this bill is certainly to be welcomed in the sense that it makes sense to harmonise the rules of the game of this work-related immigration. What makes sense here, too, is that it contains the current so-called good practices, which I believe represent this famous exercise of access, that is to say, it is within this bill. In this respect, I think it has been a good debate that has brought up the need to speed up the processes and to highlight the importance of control, the control resources — all of which are important — and I agree with the view that, for example, it was a pleasure to hear Mr Räsänen's speech because it gave us all a lot of new facts, and these are just the sort of things that need to be on the top of the facts, and here in Parliament we have to go through them carefully. But, President-in-Office, I have to go back to my original question because, although Mr Zyskowicz was very upset about my confusion, there is unfortunately a reason for it. There's a reason. The confusion now comes precisely from the fact that, although it is said here that everyone can now join forces to do this, at the same time as the government makes a proposal which includes the question of availability, then the representatives of the coalition will take turns leaving it, taking a break from the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u94	Ärade talman, Mr President! Regeringens proposition är vämme men vi behöver mera. It is absolutely good that this proposal will make it easier for Finnish companies to gain access to labour on a seasonal basis. But this is not enough. The government's employment target of 72% is running away from the future. 31,000 people were employed in the past year, but this is mainly cosmetic growth, which does not reflect rapid growth or dynamic economy. It is a manifestation of a situation in which the labour market is considered to be a zero-sum game: one happiness is another’s accident, meaning that the employment of one person means that someone else is fired. New businesses continue to emerge too slowly and large international companies prefer to set up their offices in neighbouring countries. Once again, let us turn our eyes to Sweden. More than ten years ago, Sweden said that increasing labour supply will increase employment, and this has also happened. At the same time, Sweden abolished the examination of the availability of work-related immigration. As a result of these measures, the employment rate in Sweden is 75%, and Stockholm wins Helsinki 125-19 when comparing the locations of large international companies. Why is this so? Finland is still too rigid for international actors and, of course, for domestic citizens too. In an increasingly international world where goods and information move across borders without obstacles, there is no justification for tying jobs to people's nationality. Why not combat the brain drain by genuinely opening the doors, without conditions and pay limits, including for foreign experts, experts who pay taxes, bring links to the export market and thus increase the competitiveness of companies? Studies carried out by Andreas Hatzigeorgius and Magnus Lodefalk at the University of Örebro in 2013 show that there is a direct link between the recruitment of an employee with a foreign background and the increase in exports. Mr President! Let us put ourselves in company shoes for a moment. If one country offers an environment where it can flexibly employ the best possible worker, whether domestic or foreign, and another does not do so, the scale is already, in principle, tilted to the side of a more flexible country. Nevertheless, the question of the availability of labour outside the EU, the EEA, is still a reality in Finland — a reality based not on an analysis of what would make Finland as competitive as possible, but on limited lobby thinking and partial optimization at the expense of the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u97	Madam President! I must now say to Mrs Viitanen that I agree with this confusion, that is to say I will also take up the bucket you are holding in your hand, and rightly so, in my opinion, because it is true that we have heard in this Chamber today that work permits — or whether it is a means test — are to be abolished precisely from the point of view of the coalition. And now it does not have to be a very old and wise man, knowing that these throws and performances usually mean that under the surface there is no smoke without fire. I am sure that proposals are still being made in this direction, that is, these throws are being given and then we will see what is the final government proposal and what will happen. I think it is all right that workers are available in those sectors where there are no employees in Finland. However, I would also like to look a little at the way in which our education policy has been taken forward in Finland. We have not been awake when it is understood that we need coders, for example: They're just being trained. They start coding in elementary school. Yes, the knowledge of that information technology should be everything that goes on in school, and then we'd get those experts. The second is the agricultural profession and the agricultural surveyors. There have also been many changes in education — not only in education, but also in wages. In other words, the salary is too small and too poor, and it does not encourage Finns to take up that percolation, that is the truth. In particular, I am concerned about language skills and that if you come to Finland for seasonal work, for example, people are admitted to the nursing sector or to the social sector or to such a sector where language is needed, then you should have some control over your language skills, which means that English does not manage in every place. And especially a very good entrepreneur's day for all entrepreneurs in Finland. Without entrepreneurs, the wheels don't spin. Yes, we must continue to take action to get those jobs, and that is what the entrepreneurs are doing. That is not really what we are doing here, but the entrepreneur creates a job and then applies for the employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u98	Mr President! The proposal proposes a separate law for seasonal workers with a three-step work permit system. Short permits would be granted without consideration of the employment relationship related to availability, medium-term permits would be received by the Finnish Immigration Service (Maahanmuuttovirasto) assessment and long later based on the assessment of the normal TE Office. The law, in principle, is to be welcomed and improved in our labour market system, but there are a number of issues that I think need to be considered. The first is that we already know that different residence statuses create hierarchies for the Finnish labour market, which are also reflected in employment and employment conditions. We do not know how the further complexity of the system — and that is what happens when separate laws are introduced — will affect these hierarchies and the segregation of the labour market through work permits and residence status. Another question to consider is the competence of the Finnish Immigration Service to assess employment relationships. In practice, the assessment that TE Offices specialize in would also be carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service, which is unlikely to have the kind of expertise at present. The third question that I am now considering for a little longer is the preservation of this availability exercise. There were a number of references earlier to the example of Sweden. In Sweden in 2008, the availability exercise was abolished. This is a real problem, because there is no actual study on the impact of the availability analysis on the Swedish system, which would allow us to assess, for example, how the labour market in Sweden, which operates in a completely different way in relation to the Finnish labour market, affects the results of an individual measure. Instead, however, we can comment individually on the conclusions that can be drawn from the example of Sweden. Firstly, since 2008, in Sweden, the increase in the number of foreign workers has taken place in sectors which in southern Finland are not subject to access testing, which have previously been subject to access testing and which have not seen a significant increase in the growth of foreign labour since the withdrawal of the availability analysis. This gives reason to assume that the growth of foreign labour force is due to a factor other than the question of availability. Another thing that should be clear to everyone who is at some point familiar with human trafficking research and its parallel criminal investigation is that it is not possible to make quantitative estimates of trafficking in human beings or very serious occupational exploitation offences on the basis of the amount known to the police. What are criminal statistics for this type of crime coming to the attention of the police or the authorities is more about the channels the authorities have for the field where such crimes take place, far from the extent to which these crimes are committed in society. Well, on the basis of my own research work, I personally assume that the main reason why the system that has been abandoned in this respect is not comparable to that of access testing is that the most important and important way of getting information about this type of abuse is the employee's own reports — the fact that the employee or, in extreme cases, the victim of trafficking in human beings either contacts the authorities or organisations themselves or, in some encounter with them, reveals that he has been the victim of such abuse. The authorities, ay or non-governmental organisations have no realistic chance of going into the employment relationship to examine its actual conditions if either the employee is not willing to indict the employer or the employee’s dependence on the employer is so high that it is more advantageous for him to remain silent than to challenge the system in some way. It is precisely such a mechanism that provides the worker with the risk if he or she disputes the matter in relation to the employer that is so great that it is only in exceptional circumstances that he or she should do so. In most cases — even in some where all authorities agree that it is likely that it is a matter of trafficking in human beings, not to mention lesser crimes now — the person will not have the opportunity to remain in Finland to prove or claim his or her own earnings after the termination of the employment relationship. If the employer doesn't like you and you're here with a request for access, that means you have to leave the country at the end of your employment relationship. In a significant way, access testing, which is a sector-specific exercise, also means that you cannot think about changing fields to the service of another employer and then from there you applied for these rights. For non-availability workers, we know that, typically, these various missing earnings and other disadvantages in the employment relationship will only be recovered afterwards, even if there is no non-availability consideration situation, because the risk is not sought in the context of employment because the dependency ratio is so high. So when it comes to the question of access, there is no such possibility. That is why I do not see much sense either, as long as we have access considerations, in demanding a huge amount of additional resources for the authorities to sort out and investigate these issues, when I simply do not believe that it will be of any use at all. It is useful that the authority can be reached if we have a person who is prepared and has the courage to talk about the abuse he is facing, but as long as we make legislation on this threshold, it will not do any good. Another major problem, which is related to this consideration of availability, concerns those already in Finland. We know from previous years that around one third of the applications for work permits for access testing are made from Finland. This is the case, for example, if a person has previously been employed here under another residence status that entitles him to work, for example, he has been a student here or has been entitled to work in Finland or an asylum seeker on the basis of family ties. In these situations, a person may have worked in Finland for a year, been in a full-time employment for an indefinite period and should now apply for a work permit. In this context, his employer should put it in an open job search online for 10 days to prove that there is no other interested party in the whole EU and EEA area, which is, of course, unfair for its employee. I would not like to see my current employment relationship put on open-ended search for others, and it is, of course, also regrettable for the employer who also has to pay for this process. This also leads us to keep the paperless grey sector alive, because the thresholds for knowingly entering the official labour market have been made. In my opinion, it is important that when these issues are discussed that the foreign labour force is not waiting in Asia, it is here in the midst of us, and that at the moment there is a lot of abuse and exploitation in our society and, in part, we ourselves have produced by law the structures that sustain this exploitation, and that it is also in the interests of the Finnish worker that all the Finnish labour markets are competing with the same working conditions and that the vague working arrangements against law or collective agreements are being eradicated and that we should work in this house for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u99	Mr President! I was talking to an entrepreneur in my province some time ago. We discussed support for families with children and day care fees. His attitude was rather stunning and his language was really harsh toward families with children. I then asked him who he thinks will do all the work in Finland in the future if we do not support families with children and their daily lives. He replied that well, foreigners are taken to work in Finland. I thought his ideas and his attitude were rather incomprehensible, but today, in this debate, I have noticed that this is the general line of the coalition. I've given myself the impression that it's the endgame of unwillingness to pay people decent wages. After all, we would find Finnish unemployed farmers and cleaners if we paid the kind of wage we can pay to support ourselves and our families. The basic salary of the farmer is approximately EUR 1700 per month and the cleaning lady is approximately EUR 1500. Even a chef’s basic salary does not support himself here because of the cost of living in the capital region. Day care fees in Finland are also tulips to accept work with low wages. However, in the case of payments, this is the highest category, and in many families day care fees may amount to up to EUR 700 per month from the farm holidaymaker’s salary. Solving unemployment [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u102	Mr President! For my part, too, I wish entrepreneurs a good business day. Today, mail came from there and it was reminded that SMEs employ one million people in Finland. However, I would like to remind you that no one will have any objection to hiring people for a need that cannot be found. That is why we also have a little more action from the government if we think we have 46,000 young people under the age of 25 unemployed. True Finns have suggested, among other things, support for the costs of that time, migration allowance, either permanent or temporary, for example for trial periods or even during this kind of gig. It may be that the person is trapped in two apartments and that it is not worth leaving. It would always be necessary to consider when talking about an increase in the employment rate, including who we then employ, how our employment rate will rise in Finland, if the situation is that there are more and more Finns unemployed but we get foreigners to work. That logic didn't really open up to me. Actually, it's good to see Secretary Risikko here. You said earlier that the Finns have been making these presentations. Now I would like to emphasise here that the Group of the Finns Party has been kicked out of the government in June and you will continue with the new group. They're responsible for the hole we left behind. The Finns are not doing these things; they are done by quite other people. We disagree on many points, and the government's proposal is as long as it is accepted by all ministers, for example in the trio. We have not accepted your proposals. And let me say that the negotiators who have been there are now in blue, and indeed not all the proposals, most of them — even the big ones — have been in the process of being adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u103	Mr President! It is a great pleasure and an honour to speak in this new old Chamber, which is more intimate, calmer and more valuable than our temporary Chamber, and I think that this debate has also shown that the debate here is also more valuable than in most cases in those evasive spaces. In some ways, that spirit has even gripped me in the way that I try to find the connecting factors in these various speeches that have been used today, because it seems to me that these differences are perhaps more symbolic than they are quite real — assuming, however, that the majority in this Chamber believe that the immigration of the experts is not only desirable but also necessary to safeguard the future of the welfare society. Of course, there are those who pretend that this is not necessary or desirable, and then they will only make it more difficult to cultivate false and prejudice. But if our common purpose is well thought out, controlled, acceptable and effective labour-based immigration, then common solutions will be sought. On the basis of this debate, I thought of at least five elements of the compromise. Firstly, the question of access should not always be the main rule, but it could be stated by the authority itself, on the basis of good criteria. Secondly, it is possible to make it easier for companies to apply for a work permit, as has been done and simplified, for example, by means of pay.fi-type user interfaces. The third way is, I think we agree, that the issue of residence permits and work permits should be speeded up, and here, of course, the definition of a reasonable period of time. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u106	Mr President! I would also like to say that today there are between three and four hundred thousand unemployed in our country, but at the same time employment has improved and exports are being driven, which means that we have a shortage of labour. Work and employee may not meet. As has been said here in two hours, there are such professions that there are currently no such employees in Finns. It has been asked what the position of the Blue Parliamentary Group on this government proposal is. We believe that we fully support this government proposal. Although I have not read this very thoroughly, this proposal means that there are clear rules of play for both employers and employees. It has been said that there have been nearly 6,000 employees last year — and I also call for it to be said that when you come here from that third country or from anywhere, you must have the same salary as the one paid here to the Finnish citizen. Then there has been a debate about how to control the fact that there is no cheap labour. But all in all, this good government proposal with its availability considerations seems to us to be a step forward, and the Blue Parliamentary Group supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-05-ps-81.u107	Mr President! Now that the minister has arrived, In my own speech, I wondered about one point which is likely to be found here in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal. I remember the debate on internal ICT transfers, precisely the situation when we move from one country to another. This was also the subject of debate in the European Parliament, including among the Member States in the Council, whether there were some factors which might open the gates to different types of abuse. There were these Indian coders as some kind of example that they would be made into such specialist experts, then transferred as in-house transfers from one country to another, and also that it would then be possible for them to continue to be transferred to the next country in the EU. So the question to the Minister is this: has this government proposal taken a position on this issue, that is to say, this transition from one country to another after entering the EU on the basis of an internal ICT transfer?
