ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u2	Madam President! According to the current law, the amount of the parking fee is EUR 20. In addition, a decree of the Ministry of the Interior may provide for a higher parking fee in the municipality or part of the municipality if the traffic density, the scarcity of parking spaces, the number of parking errors, the smoothness of traffic or other traffic reasons so require. The maximum parking fee is EUR 60. However, the amount is independent of the quality of the error. Invalid parking often causes a danger to other traffic. For example, parking in front of a road is a dangerous situation where a pedestrian crossing a road crossing a road crossing is not able to see traffic in the future because of a parked car and drivers cannot see a pedestrian. This situation is particularly dangerous for children. According to the law, the car must be at least 5 meters away from the road, but many motorists parked in front of the road despite this. It should be possible to impose an increased fine for parking as a result of the endangerment of traffic. The too low level of parking fee is reflected in conscious misparking, which is not in line with the objectives of the parking fee system. Mr President! In all its simplicity: if you park a car, pay a fee, pay a fee, and receive a fine, it is equal to the amount if you park the car in such a way that it causes a genuine danger. I therefore believe that it should be possible to impose double fines for dangerous parking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u3	Madam President! It is nice to agree with the Green Representative, Mr Vartia. It is quite justified that in such places where incorrect parking of a car poses a clear risk or threat or that, where necessary, fire and rescue vehicles do not get near the door or carry out a fire mission, for example, there would be an increased parking error fee. I also welcome the fact that the possibility of private parking companies or finers is now again in force. There must also be the means to intervene in parking in the courtyards of houses, where these private operators are certainly the most effective means. Mr President! One thing that amazes me is that, when we have no parking areas in the countryside and if the municipality does not have parking controls, the police will not intervene in practice. This would have to be made to work in such a way that the parking ban mark would also have full effect in areas where there is no separate parking control. Mr President! At the end of the day: I also think that the initiative taken at the time by Mr Guzenina to give home services and home care, and these on the other hand, flexibility in these short-term parking facilities, is appropriate and deserves to be made progress, so that such rapid visits can be made, for example, with sick or elderly people, without having to leave that car at the end of very impossible roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u4	Madam President! Representative Vartia is on the right track in her initiative. There are many types of parking, but many of the wrong parking is not harmful or dangerous to road safety. I find it unusual that when the parking time of the car is exceeded, the owner or the holder of the vehicle will receive the same penalty as the vehicle that was improperly parked in front of the road. Invalid parking often causes a danger to other traffic too. In this case, the police can also write a penalty claim for it. Article 3 of the Road Transport Act describes the general obligations of the road user. It requires the road user to comply with the traffic rules and with the care and care required by the circumstances in order to avoid danger and damage. The road user shall not unnecessarily obstruct or interfere with traffic. Article 27 of the Road Traffic Act describes the prohibitions on stopping and parking. It states that the vehicle must not be stopped or parked in such a place or in such a way as to constitute a danger or unnecessarily prevent or disrupt traffic. Stopping and parking are prohibited, for example, within 5 metres of the road. In both cases, the police may issue a penalty claim to the driver of the vehicle. The law on the transfer of vehicles, Article 5(1), states the transfer of the vehicle on the basis of the parking provision. According to that provision, if a vehicle has been parked on the road in violation of the parking provision, a local parking authority or a municipal parking supervisor may carry out a transfer at least two days after the start of the non-compliant parking operation. Paragraph 4 states that if the parking of a vehicle presents a risk to road safety, the police are obliged to move the vehicle without delay. If parking causes significant damage to road use, the police, the road maintenance authority or the municipal parking supervisor may carry out a near- or warehouse transfer without delay. I believe that these above-mentioned articles should be actively used and adequately staffed in parking control. Mr President! I very much appreciate the parking controls carried out by municipalities and cities. Without supervision, there would be total chaos with regard to parking. Everyone would park their vehicles wherever they wanted to be. Monitoring must also be transparent and transparent and so certain that no parking fee will change at court level. The news from the Helsingin Sanomat was put in my eye about a year ago. It said that every tenth parking ticket is filed in Helsinki and almost half of the complaints go through. Private parking control is even more confusing. The same news reported that the driver had been fined in his own building company for parking in his own parking lot. I am well aware that such a case is a clear overkill and a human error on the part of the overseer, and hopefully the situation has been corrected. The most important thing in the overall picture is that the signs are clear and easy to understand. This makes it easy for both drivers and supervisors to interpret them. I also think it is good that the layout of parking discs does not have to be as accurate as it used to be. It may have a picture of Donald Duck; the main thing is that the time of departure is clearly indicated. Mr President! I do not consider Mr Vartia's bill to be a bad one, but we would already have the opportunity to intervene adequately in parking places that endanger road safety if there were enough controllers and activity and the law were interpreted correctly. Studies show that the risk of being caught is the best guarantee of compliance, not the hardening of penalties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u5	Mr President! I think that Mr Vartia's bill is very much to be welcomed. It is well in people’s sense of justice that if the parking error poses more danger then the error fee would be higher. And, just as the initiative states, too low a fee can lead to little being cared about, rather than parking, and yet it is precisely those places for dangerous parking that can cause major problems. It's bad if people have the idea that the payments are so small that I'd rather pay it than wonder where I'm parked. I hope that this bill will move forward. Indeed, I believe that Finns understand very widely that it is quite reasonable to have a higher fee for dangerous parking than for this type of parking, which in itself is unlawful but does not pose as much danger as for other cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u6	Mr President! In my opinion, in this parking system we in Finland already have the laws of the jungle and the law on the hip. We have so many private parking inspectors and they are used very much, for example, in rented housing areas, where there is little parking space. It even happens that when you move there and you drive a moving car in front of the door, you get a parking fee because you can't park there. I find this completely incomprehensible. So some kind of peasant mind should be in use here. In itself, if you park in dangerous places, it's okay that it's also being punished. But what was actually stated in this bill is that the lowest fee is EUR 20: I think that EUR 20 is such a long-distance beautiful entry there, i.e. I think it is at least EUR 60 and even above that when the private billing is made. At least we even had more than that, of course they were corrected somewhat. But such some kind of rationality should be brought to what it costs to park incorrectly — that is to say, whether it is a danger to cause, whether it is a matter of exceeding the parking time by one minute or two or five minutes, however now, that what is reasonable in any place. It should be borne in mind that although the parking fee for a Member of Parliament, for example, is not much, for an unemployed person who may also get it and gets it when parking incorrectly, it is a huge amount, which means that these should be a little moderated. In my opinion, it would be much better for us to switch from these fault payments at all to sanctions calculated from earned income. Then they would be the same to everyone. If the sanction is 40% of income, it is the 40% of income for all. If it's 10%, then it's 10% for everyone. It is fair — not that it is equal, it is not equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u7	Mr President! As has been pointed out in this debate, the legislation does indeed set a lower and maximum limit for parking errors. The maximum limit is EUR 60 and the lower limit is EUR 20, but otherwise the parking fee is per municipality. Municipalities are also able to determine how much it is taken. The good thing about this bill is that it specifically mentions this danger situation and proposes a doubling of it. It would then, in a sense, not be the sum of any euro, but would double the amount available at that time. It is true that incorrect parking may cause dangerous situations, such as situations that are almost comparable to speeding or driving under the influence of alcohol or otherwise endangering traffic. And if we look at those situations in transport, we, together with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, have worked on these in the last few years, and yet the amounts in the euro are considerably higher than EUR 20 or EUR 60, so that in that sense this bill is to be welcomed. Personally, of course, it is regrettable that it would have been possible to obtain more signatures if it had been more widely known that this initiative has been taken, but in general the initiative is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u8	Madam President! The initiative is a good one and it is good in the sense that it stimulates debate on this dangerous parking. I must say that when I travel a lot myself, I am a little concerned about whether there has been an increase in indifference or, on the other hand, whether there is also a need in this regulation on parking, to clarify it. Recently I noticed that this kind of parallel parking has increased, especially here in the capital, and that is why I really worry that it often causes situations where small streets are blocked. Perhaps it is this sort of central European phenomenon that you put on your flashes and go on business, but it is not in line with Finnish spirit or transport culture, and in this sense I think that parking supervision should be further increased. I believe that it will bring back the resources invested in it. But the initiative itself is a good opening for discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u9	Madam President! As far as the interesting bill is concerned, it is also good to look at the question of parking and related questions about the vision of the legislator and legislation. After all, in practice a certain kind of insolence, indifference occurs in parking, and if the fee is, or at least seems, small, then it does not really matter. However, it should also be borne in mind that parking charges should not be used as municipal cash machines. There is also a considerable amount of money going into control, so it is difficult to say how much it will produce in practice, net for municipalities. But it comes to mind that, when technology moves forward, it is probably in the interests of the car parkers and those moving by car to access systems where the parking time is either not paid in advance or based on a precise time, but the car parker pays for the time that is parked. It will then be fair, and there will also be no error payments at their worst for a few minutes. In this regard, technology will help us, and this must be taken forward overall. One problem, which is also the case, is these cars with diplomatic shields. I am not quite sure how much parking charges can be charged by the delegations, but in a way, they always give the wrong impression about the activities of a particular state or some of the countries and their representatives, if this occurs. I do not know what emoticon mark there would be in place, perhaps those mouthpieces down on these cars or something like that, without taking any civic action now, but I think that even diplomats should comply with the legislation. One small problem that we still have in these areas of parking is the distribution cars, which often have to park in places where it would not, in a way, be properly allowed. We should be able to find answers to these questions, how to get strawberries and other products to be delivered safely and well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u10	Madam President! It is good that the government has also dismantled unnecessary bureaucracy in this area too. After all, we even had extremely precise rules on the size and colour and shape of the text in all parking reels. It is good that the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, has been active in these matters and has brought common sense to them. Sometimes it feels like these things go not ahead of common sense but ahead of comma, and it is good that they have been changed. It is a good thing that this initiative, which is proposing an increase in these very dangerous parking facilities or dangerous parking facilities, should now come to the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I hope that this initiative will receive a positive explanation there, and I would hope that this proposal by Mrs Guzenina in due course for free parking in the case of housekeepers and home nurses could come up in the same debate. It is unreasonable that when such work is carried out, such as taking medication or taking home care by an elderly person or someone who otherwise needs care, the first person there is a parking maid then hitting a note on the window. In my view, a common-minded solution must be found to such situations, which can then be considered from that point of view. It is good that such initiatives are coming, and that leaves us with a good feeling of being able to praise both the Green and the Demari today, that is to say, when good proposals come from the party as well as from the party, they will be supported then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u11	Mr President! Indeed, parking charges are important: the system has been created for a need, that is, not to the detriment of motorists, as it is understandablely felt by those who have received PVM. And like that before, a representative. Even Tolppanen pointed out, so it really stings especially in the low income economy. But indeed, there must be room for emergency vehicles, as well as for different types of service vehicles, and there must be no danger of parking, for example, for pedestrians, especially in the vicinity of protective roads. However, I would like to emphasise that Mr Kulmala pointed out earlier that the essential issue is indeed this risk of being caught: that is where we need the parking inspectors sufficiently, that is to say that it guarantees compliance with its laws, not so much the hardening of penalties. However, I would like to thank Mr Vartia for his legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-12-ps-53.u12	Mr President! I would like to express my thanks for the contributions that have been made here. What this is all about is that the car parked in front of the road is at its worst extremely dangerous, each one of us knows that. If you think of a child crossing the street, you may not know how to stop after a car to see if a car comes out. This is what we are trying to do here: make it safer, especially for children, but also for everyone else, to travel on the road, and then, of course, this also takes into account the way out. As I sit in the opposition, I wish you to take the matter forward. It would be great if we could improve on this.
