ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A referral debate on this subject will take place until 3:45 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 3:45 p.m., we will move on to the next item on the agenda, i.e. 9. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u2	Madam President! The district court network will be developed in two different projects, which will be the subject of separate government proposals. The project for the development of the District Court Network has assessed the district court network as a whole, and the Government's proposal on this is now before Parliament. The second is the project to develop the processing of summary disputes, for which the report of the working group will be published in the coming days. Regarding the proposals: The Government’s proposal before us would carry out the restructuring of district courts. The reform would develop the district court network in such a way that after that there would be 20 district courts in Finland instead of the 27 existing courts. The district courts would include Espoo, Helsinki, Hämeenlinna, Joensuu, Jyväskylä, Kajaani, Kouvola, Kuopio, Lahti, Lappeenranta, Mariehamn, Mikkeli, Oulu, Pori, Rovaniemi, Seinäjoki, Tampere, Turku, Vaasa and Vantaa. District courts would be merged as follows: District courts of Espoo and Western Uusimaa for the District Court of Western Uusimaa; the northern municipalities of the District Court of Hyvinkää and the District Court of Kanta-Häme to become the District Court of Kanta-Häme; The southern municipalities of the District Court of Hyvinkää, the district courts of Eastern Uusimaa, Tuusula and Vantaa for the District Court of Eastern Uusimaa; District courts of Kemi-Tornio and Lapland for the District Court of Lapland; District courts of Central Ostrobothnia and Ostrobothnia as District Court of Ostrobothnia and District courts of Oulu and Ylivieska-Raahe as District Court of Oulu. The number of district courts will be reduced from the current 57 to 36. In addition to the 20 administrative offices for rights, there would be separate offices for four and seats for 12 localities. The reform would also review the jurisdictional division of certain specialised groups. These groups require specific expertise, which is in favour of focusing on fewer district courts than is currently the case. The reform is expected to enter into force from the beginning of 2019. The reform is based on the Justice Reform Programme for the years 13 to 25 drawn up by the Ministry of Justice in 2013. Implementation of the programme by the Prime Minister The Sipilä Government’s Action Plan is one of the key stone-foot projects. It will be implemented in accordance with the Justice Development Programme. According to the programme, changes in the operating environment will be addressed in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice through structural reforms, the electrification of services and processes and the streamlining of legislation and procedures. The implementation of the restructuring of district courts is one of the key projects of the programme. There are several factors behind this: 1) The complexity of the legal environment requires strong general and specific expertise from court staff, as well as linguistic and technical expertise. 2) The ongoing retirement due to the age structure of the judiciary staff is a major factor in change. 3) There are also a number of other projects under way, such as the development of summary cases, the extension of the scope of the fine procedure and the reduction of judicial proceedings, which have a significant impact on the number of cases to be dealt with by district courts. 4) Services in district courts have also changed and are still changing. Developing e-services and the use of videoconferencing can create new ways of serving citizens. 5) The potential of digitalisation should be fully exploited. The ongoing project to develop the case and document management of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the General Courts, the so-called Aipa project, and other measures to increase e-services, such as increasing the use of videoconferencing, are of great importance for the change and development of the working methods of the judiciary. 6) In recent years, the focus on justice has been increasingly shifted to district courts. It places greater demands on the quality of justice. (7) The current economic situation and the resulting scarcity of resources also put pressure on the functioning of the courts. Ensuring the capacity of courts and the quality of justice requires new, more effective means of organising and directing the activities of courts. The implementation of the reform is necessary in order to ensure the operational capacity of district courts despite changes in the operating environment and the limited economic framework conditions. These challenges will be met by strengthening the structure of district courts. District courts would be located in population centres, i.e. the largest cities. On the other hand, because of the distance between the seats should also be held elsewhere. All the localities with district court offices would also have offices of other authorities. Despite the merger of district courts, the proposed site network would be quite comprehensive. The protection of linguistic rights would be ensured by placing in bilingual district courts a sufficient number of linguistic judges. The adequacy of the Swedish-speaking staff must also be ensured so that judicial services can continue to be provided equally in both national languages. In the longer term, the creation of larger administrative units can also contribute to the implementation of linguistic rights. Nor does the reform undermine the linguistic rights of the Sami people. In total, the reform would achieve savings of around EUR 3 to 3.5 million in staff and premises costs. In addition, the contraction of the network would reduce the investment pressure required by security arrangements and Aipa equipment by a total of approximately EUR 2 million and the annual operating costs by around EUR 2 million. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u3	It is now possible to have a debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u4	Mr President! The Minister there presented the government's proposal thoroughly and well. Indeed, all performances have negative and positive aspects, and there are many more of these. The fact is that special expertise is also needed in the district court, and this ensures that judges are concentrated in larger units, and then this district court is not as vulnerable as certain small units are at present. As far as these linguistic rights are concerned, it really can be secured by this arrangement. The fact is that digitalisation makes justice much easier. It cannot be a local service, but it must be an available service, and it can be obtained through a digital connection, for example, for the majority of people. This reform is necessary, not only for savings but also for justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u5	Madam President! The reduction of district court rights jeopardises the legal security of citizens and leads many citizens to travel to the nearest district court excessively long. The costs are now being borne by customers and the threshold for recourse to legal protection provided by the judiciary will increase further. Such a change will increase the regional inequalities of citizens and reduce access to justice-related services. However, jurisdiction in district courts is largely based on the personal presence of the parties concerned and, in terms of access to justice, the accessibility of the court is of great importance. I would therefore like to see more detailed calculations from the Ministry on the issues behind the decisions. I would have seen it as important that the previous 2010 reform, the impact assessments, should have been carefully carried out. However, this has not been the case. And it is worth questioning whether the savings that the Ministry is now seeking will be generated here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u6	Madam President! Thank you very much to the Minister for a comprehensive presentation. Our starting point for this whole reform is, of course, that our most important task is to ensure legal certainty — it cannot depend on the state of the economy. At the same time, it is also clear that the District Court is not such a thing as a local service, and at the same time our electronic services give us a completely different opportunity to offer people access to these services even without having to visit the District Court. However, with a rather serious ear, I am listening to these speeches about the depth of its concern as to whether this will undermine our legal security, and in particular this concern about the realisation of linguistic rights is genuine. That is why it was great that the Minister also raised this in his speech. Certainly, when the Committee on Legal Affairs deals with this matter, these are in particular the issues for which further information is to be sought.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u7	Mr President! Undoubtedly, in many ways, this is an absolutely necessary change. But, of course, when the number of district courts is reduced, the result may be very long distances from the customers’ point of view to those offices, and this is about the customer’s core legal security content and access to justice. Did I hear or listen correctly when the Minister assesses how this customer’s legal protection would then be secured in the future: Was it also the case that the Minister and the Ministry would be very active in setting up joint service points in these municipalities, which would also provide either personal or distance services in matters of justice? So, is this the case that the Ministry of Justice wants to set up these customer service points, such as those designed by the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u8	Mr President! In the event of such major cuts, there is every reason to be concerned about the legal protection of citizens. Adequate legal protection includes adequate proximity to legal services, which requires a sufficiently dense network of district courts. Now the distances are increasing, which threatens to prolong district court days and congest courts. In addition to centralisation, legal protection is also threatened by the possible weakening of linguistic rights through reform. I would like to ask you, Minister: how will the legal security of citizens be ensured if the cuts in the district court network now proposed are implemented and the seats are drastically reduced? And I would also have called for the effects of reducing the previous district court network: cost effects and the effects of longer business trips.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u9	Mr President! The Minister presented the Government's proposal here and also raised the issue of the exercise of linguistic rights. I believe that he sincerely thinks that he has tried to write about these in this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u10	President! This is a very difficult matter, and I assume that this proposal has been one with which the Minister has been in pain for a long time. On the one hand, something must be done under pressure and, on the other hand, the necessary reforms must be put in place. Concerns about the legal protection of citizens and the avoidance of excessive distances are justified, as is the legitimate concern, for example, in the direction of Iisalme, where the Sukeva prison is close to not transferring resources from one pocket to another, i.e. that in many ways policemen are forced to carry out secondary tasks, to ensure the transport of prisoners, and then it is again out of the police's resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u11	Madam President! When you read this act, it's a real big worry. Now the Finnish judiciary is being reformed ahead of money, not ahead of a functioning judiciary. The lack of resources and processing times and their reduction cannot be managed by reducing the number of district seats. Regional equality is not a reality here. Compared to the regional scope of the country, Finland is becoming the least comprehensive district court network in the Nordic countries. Among other things, the League of Judges has been very concerned about this, both about this process and how they have been consulted, how their findings have been taken into account. Their view is that they have not been consulted at all, and this is also very worrying. Then this key issue here: since the Minister himself has set up a working group for the establishment of the Court of Justice and the idea is that it would already be in force in 2018, why should they now be imported separately in this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u12	Madam President! Indeed, the central role of this proposal has been to create an ever stronger district court network in which all units would be able to carry out their tasks as well as possible in exceptional circumstances. With this in mind, a larger size must make it possible for the quality to be better and the service to be more diverse. In other words, it is important to ensure that everyone will continue to have access to justice. And I believe that what is really more important for people is the functioning of the courts, the availability and quality of services than the actual distance, although, if I have understood correctly, the fact that the journey is not unreasonable, but tolerable for everyone, has been taken into account in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u13	Madam President! This debate began quite boldly when the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, said that this proposal would improve the quality of justice. On the contrary, I share this concern that it is a worrying development if the district court network is reduced from 27 to 20. [KimmoWinter call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u14	Mr President! For me, this performance is very difficult and difficult. I myself have auscultated at the District Court of Kemijärvi. As a district court, it was abolished, but now Kemijärvi has remained a place of business. But now this sitting will also be closed down accordingly. Yes, twice I wonder what we are going to do with this, but many other very difficult decisions have been taken during this term of government. This reflects our responsibility for the future situation in society as a whole. Over the past ten years, Finland has owed several ten billion. We have to do something to make work develop and take forward. This is one of the difficult solutions in which, with this action, we are developing and wondering how we can, however, get the services that work for us in a remote area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u15	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister a little about those hearings and video recordings, because if I have understood correctly — correct me, Minister — then the number of staff, the number of judges, is not meant to be reduced but to combine the offices and also to concentrate certain matters on certain courts to ensure knowledge. When it is precisely this availability of the service that concerns you, how are these hearings and e-services progressing and such offices with the municipality, for example, where can you be at peace with the hearing in connection with the video equipment? I understand that there is concern about it. I would have asked when I am from Hyvinkää and Hyvinkää are asked when we have the office in Hyvinkää — and this has been in the news too — does that not mean that there will also be the Chambers and not just the Office? We have a local newspaper about it a little wrong at some point. If the minister now told the audience what this means to stay in the office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u16	Madam President! This frenzy of centralising justice systems is terrible when you start to think about the areas from which you take those district courts away. These state workplaces and offices also have a major impact on business life and how business will be located in those regions. I would therefore ask, Minister, whether there has been an overall economic summary which assesses not only all legal costs but also the importance of the regional judiciary for the vitality of sparsely populated areas, which takes account of the needs of the regions' economies, and how much money they generate there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u17	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! This is not a fair reform, it is not a fair reform, nor is it a reform that strengthens legal security. It is quite remarkable that the reform that took place only six years ago has not been sufficiently reviewed now, what happened then, how it has worked. Now we want to reduce the number of district courts again and say that larger units are needed. At the same time, the District Court of South Karelia is being held in custody, the District Court can remain in Kainuu and the District Court can remain in Kanta-Häme. These are all about the same size as the bilingual district courts in Porvoo, Raasepori and Kokkola, which are now going to be abolished. Why, Minister Lindström, do you want to export district courts from Western Finland, and how do you intend to secure the services in practice in Swedish?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u18	Madam President! Admittedly, this reform is a little problematic, but I do understand the spirit of the time in which we are living in Finland in the midst of austerity measures. But the problem arose as to whether the Ministry of Justice has thought about this when many people who have to go to a district court, for example, even though they are now dealing with a permit case or some other similar matter, the municipal legal aid offices are quite spirit and life, because they are not likely to go to the district court themselves, but to seek the help of the municipal legal aid office which then handles the matter by proxy or other means. Has this legal aid work been developed in what way? Secondly, have we taken into account the fact that we have many district court sittings, I say, because of routine cases and it takes a lot of time? Has this process now been developed so much that we can speed up and quickly push through such easy cases, leaving time and measures for those things that really require more time in the session?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u19	Mr President! For years, I have been concerned about two things, in fact, about the legal protection of citizens. The first problem is that if a person has property or income, going to court is always a risk due to the cost of the trial. After all, an incomeless person does not have this problem in the same way when society ultimately reimburses the costs of legal proceedings. My second concern concerns the congested nature of the courts and the length of the proceedings. If legal proceedings last for years, that cannot be in line with legal certainty. Now, in its proposal, the government is reducing the number of district courts, and in a careless way, one might think that this might even exacerbate these problems. However, it can also be the opposite and this reform can ensure that the courts are able to function properly. It is not as important for the citizens as whether the right is 50 km away or 100 km away as whether it will take a year or five years. I would like to ask the Minister whether you believe that this reform offers the opportunity to remedy these two shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u20	Madam President! In these areas, where these district courts or offices stop, people are quite careful to look at the basis of the government proposal and the bill. At least in Upper Savo and perhaps in thievery — In other words, North Savo will be abolished, from one province, from two district courts — wondering where these calculations are based. Firstly, there are no economic calculations, and then the second thing is that these will remain in much smaller regions and regions with better road connections. That no red thread or logic people have seen in this government proposal. And at least from the point of view of justice, I believe that there must be sound criteria for all solutions and criteria based on law and justice. Minister, could you please inform the Upper Savors: why take this seat out of there and increase the transport of police and prison staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u21	Madam President! There is no further way to agree with the previous speaker, Mr Eestilä, of the Government Party. This seems inconceivable that North Savo will be punished by the abolition of two district court offices, especially when, for example, Iisalmi, it is expected that the costs will increase on the contrary. The Sukeva Prison constitutes a reasonable customer base for that office of the District Court of Iisalmi, and when these people go all the way to Kuopio, they are already talking about a completely different need for police resources and also about travel costs and other things. Of course, it is also confusing that it has been said from Kuopio that there are not even enough facilities and resources to have two district court offices, both Varkaus and also Iisalmi, then moving there with their cases. So how, for example, can we even talk about any savings in North Savo? All in all, it is very strange that savings above are made in this type of solution. Yes, people's legal protection and territorial justice and linguistic rights should be given priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u22	Mr President! The representatives of North Savo have already expressed their views on Iisalme and Varkaus, rightly and moderately. I would like to draw attention to another aspect: these closures, both this one and many others in the past, happen quite a lot in these regional cities, around 50 regional cities around the country. And when these abolitions accumulate, they will have a crippling effect on the vitality and future prospects of the region, perhaps also on the potential of the business community. In this decision, too, which you are now offering, Mr Minister — you have listened to us quite well — this aspect has been completely ignored. I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will continue to blame and clean up this issue, will also look at the relocations and closures of these district courts from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u23	Värderade fru talman! Enligt lagförslaget blir Ålands tingsrätt den enda tingsrätten i hela landet som blir kvar med svenska som förvaltningspråk. Det blir således den enda platsen i hela landet där man kan auskultera på svenska. Där ox riskerar att på sikt undergräva tillgången av Svenskspråkiga tjänstemän inom domstalsväsendet, något som är ytterst allvarligt. Svenskspråkiga blir också åtalade, men förändringen riskerar urgröpa rättssäkerheten för Svenskspråkiga ifall man inte kan garantera att domarna förstår den anklagades eller målsägandes språk. Jag är mycket oroad över det.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u24	Madam President! I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that the accessibility of district courts is important and that the legal protection of people must be ensured. But at the same time, of course, it is clear that we must live in time and we must also develop new ways of doing business. We have quite a long experience of this in Lapland. Until now, we have had these distances from those district courts for hundreds of kilometres, and I have not heard such concern about this Chamber in favour of the legal protection of the Lapps. As a whole, these legal services cannot be seen as a mere local service. I am a little surprised by what Mr Henriksson has said. I do not know whether I remember correctly: did you, while you were ministering, not actually initiate and run this reform? That's what I understand. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice Lindström at this point on the day following the Sami national day: how will the linguistic rights of the Sami people, which are important, be realised in this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u25	Mr President! It is true that the judicial reform programme was carried out last season. It is also the case, Mr Kärnä, that I myself said very clearly when the working group of civil servants introduced its proposal for a reform of the district court, that I am not standing behind it and there are samples of it, among other things, there are press releases that I could read here. In other words, as a minister, I saw that this is not a good reform and that other ways of moving forward should be explored. I myself talked about the need to have modern technology in our courtrooms, to have video equipment, to go to the Swedish system so that in courts of first instance sessions are videotaped and that material can be used in court and so on. In other words, I still stand by where I was then, and I still felt that this reform was not good for the development of legal protection in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u26	Mr President! When this law was brought forward, I was very happy that it also included corporate restructuring and enforcement complaints. But what happened? It is said here that the change in the definition of the jurisdiction of district courts from the jurisdiction of the enforcement office to the division of district districts by the district court does not change the current situation. I ask: how does this not happen, because these customer groups will no longer be dealt with in district courts in South Karelia, Central Finland, Lapland and Satakunta? In addition, corporate restructuring cases are no longer dealt with by the District Court of North Karelia and enforcement cases are not dealt with by the District Courts of Eastern Uusimaa. This, therefore, clearly undermines legal certainty in this respect. In addition, in Ostrobothnia, legal security is also weakened by the fact that both Kokkola and Pietarsaari have had a red pen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u27	Mr President! Of course, e-services are a response to the concerns of many structural reforms, and digitalisation can overcome and eliminate the problems of distance. However, as has been pointed out in the past, with regard to North Savo, when it comes to the offices of the District Court of Iisalme and Varkaus, operators have certainly not yet opened up the benefits, savings or, from a functional point of view, what is actually being pursued here and how this benefits local operators. That is why I would ask the Minister: has there ever been some kind of transitional period? For example, local operators have proposed a transitional period of between 5 and 10 years, which would allow, for example, these building projects already mentioned above and allow staff to adapt to this situation, including retirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u28	Madam President! It is important that the administration and structure are functioning and that the trials are smooth. This is where videos and the use of digitalisation have been brought up, but I would also take this debate a little bit into the legal processes, to the fact that processes often stretch too long in Finland. First there's an investigation, then there's an unauthorized process of trial. I would like to ask the Minister what kind of action is to be taken to do this so that there is no need to tear open the wounds several times, for example, in the case of sexual crimes and others. I am sure that more than where criminals are convicted, citizens are interested in being judged and well judged. I would like to ask you, Minister, when you have launched a report on the penalties that are based on the sense of justice: how is this going to proceed, and when will we get the criminals to get what they deserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u29	Mr President! In his presentation, the Minister of Justice told us that this is a project for the development and restructuring of the legal network, but when you read the motion and hear colleagues' speeches here, even those of the members of the parliament of the government parties, I do not agree that it is a development project. In this regard, we also heard from Mr Laukkanen what the Finnish Union of Judges has said about this: they believe that Finland is becoming the least comprehensive district court network in the Nordic countries in terms of its regional scope, so even in that respect this cannot be called a development project. Another important issue: the possibilities of access to the service in Swedish are significantly reduced and, as has been heard, the working language of district courts changes from Swedish in Finnish, for example, as the District Court of Central Ostrobothnia and Ostrobothnia and the District Court of Espoo and Western Uusimaa merge. You can't call it a development project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u30	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Lindström: he put this question in an understandable way. When we have criticised these reductions in district courts, this is, of course, part of the savings. That the government parties do understand this. But a radical restructuring was carried out in 2010 when district courts were abolished, from 51 to 27, and this has been part of it. [MariaBeeping]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u31	Värderade Talman! Tingsrätterna i Borgå och Raseborg föreslås bli enbart sammanträdesplatser. Exempelvis tingsrätterna i Kyrkslätt, Jakobstad och Kimito är nu samanträdesplatser och föreslås läggas ner helt och hållet. Frågan lyder: Kommer de sammanträdesplatser som nu föreslås, det vill säga Borgå och Raseborg, att i framtiden läggas ner precis på samma sätt som man nu gör med Kyrkslättt, Jakobstad och Kimito? är det raj ett försök att sakta men säkert strypa under TVåspråkiga tingsrätter vi har i det rai landet?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u32	Mr President! Admittedly, I find this proposal somewhat problematic for the reasons that have emerged in this debate, perhaps after the last reform of the district court network, the results of which may not be entirely positive. Furthermore, one could have thought of these as a whole when the prison savings were abandoned: in my opinion, this district court network would have earned the same treatment. That there wasn't any pressure on this. I agree with Mrs Kääriäinen that unfortunately many of these are now repeating to the regional cities in northern Savo, Ylivieska-Raahe, in the region of Kemi-Tornio. And it would be very important — when assured that this should not, at least, have a staffing impact on the judiciary — that no other staff impact would then be imposed through savings on these regions, which are already carrying a considerable burden on many of the savings. After all, there should be no staffing impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u33	There are only five speeches left on the reply list, we will take them and then the Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u34	Värderade fru talman! Här har flera ledamöter effecterlyst en mer noggrann consexanolys och också bakgrundsfakta till varför man stanger vis tingsrätter och andra inte. Till exempel ledamot Eestilä, jag håller helt med Honom. Jag tänkte ändå Koncentrera mig på den språkliga aspecten av det hela. I förslaget ingår att man stänger Borgå, Hyvinge, Karleby, Kemi, Raseborg, Träskända och Ylivieska. Och samanträdesplatser som stänger är Kimitoön, Kyrkslätt, Kristinestad, Jakobstad och Nystad. Man behöver vä inte vara conspiratoriskt lagd för att se att rauta verkar de tvåspråkiga, och på svenska orter verkande vara proportionellt sett värrepresenterade — överrepresenterade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u35	Madam President! In their speeches, the representatives of Northern Savo have already expressed a great deal of concern about the future of justice services if the Iisalmi and Varkaus offices are closed. The Minister justified these changes in the reduction of the district court network, including the quality of the treatment and the state of central government finances. I would like to see the quality of the procedure taken into account during the committee's deliberations also in terms of the accessibility of the service — whether or not a person can reach the place of processing — and also in terms of the state of the economy in terms of whether there will be genuine savings. For example, we have concerns as to whether the savings will materialise if more district court offices are needed to build in Kuopio. In other words, my greetings to the committee are that the regional economic situation will also be taken into account and then whether these desired and intended savings will be realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u36	Madam President! There are certainly good economic and operational criteria for reform. I myself would have drawn attention to the same thing as Mr Hoskonen, for example, in the development of sub-judicial proceedings. In a public debate, many high lawyers, including Pauliine Koskelo, when he was the President of the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor General Nissinen and many others, have drawn attention to the fact that the district courts are taking far too much effort to deal with cases that could be brought to justice without endangering a lighter procedure outside the district courts. I know that this matter has been clarified by the Ministry of Justice and I would like to ask the Minister of Justice what is going on with these reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u37	Madam President! For the sake of productivity, we sometimes have to take action that hurts a little. For me, concentration issues are difficult, but in this matter we should all consider whether this district court case is a local service. No, it's not. In fact, very few times in life need it, at least not every day or week, hopefully, anyone. That is why I fully agree with the speeches that justified this by the fact that the most important thing is the quality and speed of action. We have experience in Central Finland that, after all, the world did not fall to the fact that this concentration was made. What is important is that unnecessary processing of the district courts, for example through mediation, should be carried out and all the electronic opportunities that exist should be exploited.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u38	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction. Of course, when it comes to reforms and we are also condensing the network, the new ways of working really challenge our fields to work differently. It is important that we continue to have access to the Court of Justice and that certain expertise can be guaranteed, which is also one aspect of this. But I'm going to bring the minister to the attention of you. What is happening in Oulu in the sense that the minister needs to know that our complicated and prolonged fitness renovation of the police house has now also been reflected in the District Court. The biggest hall of the District Court of Oulu, among other things, had to be temporarily closed last week, as well as the entire renovation of the police house.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u39	Before the Minister, Mr Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u40	Mr President! Representative Maijala was concerned about Kemijärvi. Oh, if this were so easy that only for Kemijärvi. So this is a stunning performance for Lapland. The district court of Kemi will be eliminated from Lapland, and only one district court of Lapland will remain there, considering the distances. According to the reform, only side offices will remain in Kemi. In addition, the meeting place will cease from Tornio and Kemijärvi as well as the office in Sodankylä. Yes, I say that it puts people, customers and staff on the road. What, then, will this cost? Has it been evaluated? I'm still asking the Minister. Rovaniemi Administrative Court was abolished a few years ago and connected to Oulu, and it has already proved that there was no savings and that the processing times were on the contrary longer. Is this going to happen the same way? In addition, the indirect effects of such decisions on the localities where district courts are proposed for closure should be noted. In other words, in addition to the jobs of district courts, these localities would, at least to a large extent, also leave other jobs in the legal field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u41	Now Minister Lindström, five minutes, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u42	Mr President! Thank you for the proper discussion. I know it's a bad thing. Congressman Kivelä said that it is not easy to bring a performance here, but I have brought difficult things before and then defend them here to the best of my ability. Three big cases came up from this feedback: legal security, linguistic rights and processes. As far as legal security is concerned, it is quite clear that, when the government has often been criticised for having been supposedly hasty in preparing matters and has not paid attention, among other things, to the constitutionality of the Constitution, the government considers that this reform is not unconstitutional and does not undermine the linguistic rights of the Swedish-speaking people as well as the rights of the Sámi-speaking people. All linguistic rights must be guaranteed. This is the responsibility of both the Ministry of Justice and the management of district courts. Above all, this legal protection for citizens is such a fundamental right that it must also be safeguarded in the context of this reform. Well, different means are mentioned in the HE, in the government's proposal, in order to safeguard these linguistic rights, and they can be found there. In fact, this committee will then be the important place to influence these matters yet, because they will then finalise this matter. I am not going here to anticipate what will happen in committee, but I know that it will get a thorough examination, and it certainly deserves that. There is a lot of development in these processes, which Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen, among others, drew attention to, and it is precisely these measures that have been taken in the Ministry of Justice and that we are going to get this quality right here on the District Court side and also in such a way that it would not be in a way unnecessary to do so. An example of this is that in future such clear cases, uncontroversial cases, could be solved, for example on the road, so that if it is a traffic offence, they would then no longer come to these rights, to lighten the load from that court level, and so that they could focus on the task for which they exist. This work is being done all the time. In fact, if you take this District Court of Ostrobothnia, you will change the working language from Swedish to Finnish. Well, the working language of the district court is not decisive for the implementation of the fundamental linguistic rights of the citizen, because it is the language of the proceedings that is important there. It is determined by the language of the customer. It will then mean that the citizen is allowed to use his own language in court. And this is something that will be safeguarded in this reform. I think it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u45	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for your speech, but of course we still missed the explanations and, above all, the arguments why and how this proposal has come about. The task of the judiciary and the judiciary is to provide legal protection in the area of fundamental and human rights. Legal certainty as a fundamental right shall include every right to have its case dealt with properly and without undue delay before a competent court under the law and to have a decision on its rights and obligations before a court or other independent judicial body. Finland's judicial system has been significantly reduced throughout the 21st century, and the resources of the courts have been significantly reduced in recent years. Already in the 1990s, when the courts became district courts, 97 courts were reduced to 70 district courts. The merger of the smallest district courts has been gradually extended in the 2000s, with 66 district courts in 2000 and only 50 in 2007. The government's proposal to reform the district court network has been beautifully named as a reform, although it is actually a cutting-off of the district court network and it seeks savings in euros. With its proposal, the government is abolishing 7 district courts, or up to 25% of the current district courts. According to this proposal, the district court’s office and place of business would disappear from many localities, both my municipality of residence in Raahe and many other localities. In today's Chamber, a number of speakers, including those from the government, have expressed concerns about the impact of these abolitions on many regional towns and how linguistic rights will be realised. There has also been justifiable concern about the realisation of people's legal protection. Cutting district courts is one of several Measures to promote a policy of centralisation of the Sipilä Government. It has only been a few months since the on-call reform abolished surgical emergency services for small localities, and we are already taking away district courts and sitting places from the countryside. I wonder what more services they want to take out of the countryside? Mr President! I do not understand how the legal protection of citizens will be improved by significantly extending business trips. e-services do not solve all accessibility problems, as not everyone has the skills and equipment to use electronic connections. Thus, only about five years ago, the district court network was significantly reduced. We do not have a sufficiently comprehensive explanation of how this affected citizens' legal security and yet we are facing a new reduction. Unfortunately, it seems that Finland has everything for sale, including people's legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u46	Madam President! This proposal now under discussion is based on a proposal from the working group, which proposed the abolition of 10 or 13 district courts and which was defeated by the then Minister of Justice Anna-Maja Henriksson. Now, after long twists, the government ended up abolishing seven district courts. I believe that maintaining the rule of law requires a long-term approach and that fundamental changes and reforms should not be carried out in order to achieve rapid savings in the face of a scarce economic situation. The analysis of the impact of this proposal on access to justice is completely inadequate. The impact of the previous closure project in 2010 on the legal protection of citizens or on the cost structure of the judiciary has not been properly investigated and should have been carried out before possible closures. The structural development of the district court network should be based on an in-depth assessment of the impact of these 2010 district court reforms. It can already be said that the number of legal services has decreased significantly from the places where the district court was abolished in 2010. The Bar Association has estimated that, for example, the number of law firms in these municipalities has decreased by 15 per cent and that the number of lawyers working in them by 20 per cent over the five years following the reform. Ensuring legal protection for citizens and businesses requires a comprehensive judicial network so that courts are located within a reasonable distance from the users of their services. There is a fear that this cutting-off of the district court network will lead to an increase in the travel costs of judges, assistants, parties and witnesses and, of course, an increase in the time spent. This means a reduction in the efficiency of the use of time by judges and an increase in the total cost of legal proceedings and an increase in the threshold for bringing cases before the judiciary. It is also difficult to hear the Witnesses as more and more Witnesses fail to show up. The cost to the police will increase as the number of respondents required is multiplied, as many respondents do not have the money to travel long distances to the session and there will be no public support for travel money. I hope that, in this situation, the Ministry of Justice will closely monitor the increase in travel costs for judges, prosecutors, legal advisers and witnesses as a result of the current closures. I believe that there will not be much direct savings by reducing the walls, while travel costs will inevitably increase. In addition to court services, people lose out of court services related to family and inheritance matters and from small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, in the drafting of contracts when lawyers and lawyers move away from the localities. I personally hope that this parliamentary term will see the establishment of a judicial system moving forward in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe to be separate from the Ministry of Justice. But, in the same breath, I would have liked this proposal to have been able to be decided later by that court administration on how to proceed in this matter. There has also been talk of remote connections here today. As a Lapp, I can say that distance connections are a good thing, but they do not yet work at an adequate level in this country. Some of the legal security problems caused by distance increases could be solved by better distance connections, but this still requires substantial investment and we do not yet have the capacity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u47	Madam President! I would like to speak specifically on the basis of how we could minimise the adverse effects and act even better in the future than is currently the case. Here Mr Ojala-Niemela referred to those remote connections and, of course, they function reasonably, for example, from municipal centres. I think it would be a very sensible reform of the witness, too, to be able to give his testimony at a distance. After all, the witness has a duty to appear in court at the risk of a penalty payment, and that is why I know that people do little to avoid being an eyewitness, because they do not want to sacrifice it for a trial because of the insignificant cost of it. I think this kind of remote witnessing would be a sensible step towards the future. The second point that has already been made in several speeches is the complete removal of unnecessary proceedings from the courtroom and also from legal practitioners. For example, the Land Survey Institute has done a good job, and today the real estate trades do not necessarily have to be used up to the law. But many judicial processes could also be conducted lightly by compromising one another at a slightly lower level. And I think that this would be very sensible for both the customer and society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u48	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! The reform of the district court proposed by the Government will drastically reduce the district courts and seats in our country. However, effective justice is one of the pillars of our rule of law. That is why I think the reform of the district court in the government is very shortsighted. It is clear that the central government finances need to be balanced, but the savings resulting from the abolition of district courts are very small compared to the damage they cause and can cause. We are talking about crumbs, when we are talking about this savings target, a few million a year, but we are talking about big things for the citizens, about fundamental legal protection. The reform of the district court network was already discussed during the last parliamentary term when I was the Minister of Justice himself, and then I clearly stated that I cannot accept the report by officials. I said this at the time: 'I cannot accept the models proposed by the working group for the development of the district court network. This is a fully civil servant-based report which will be open to decision-makers after the forthcoming elections. In my opinion, the models presented are too radical. Other alternative models would also be useful to find out." Clearly, for the present centre-run government, centralising judicial activity is not a problem, nor does it seem to be centralising other activities. For citizens, however, it is when distances to the nearest office are extended. The availability of legal services is deteriorating and increasingly depends on where the citizen lives. This is not fair. It is also noteworthy that it is proposed to abolish district courts and their offices, especially in bilingual municipalities. This is a clear political choice from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u49	President! Over the course of history, the reforms that are often necessary have only begun under duress, and that is partly what this reform is about. In the case of district court proceedings, there is a great deal of scope for simplification and opportunities and opportunities for using modern technology, but at the same time we must genuinely be concerned about the issues raised in this referral debate. We live long distances, in a country of long distances, and citizens' legal protection is always a topical issue. It is in this debate that North Savon representatives have rightly been concerned and have been here in the vote. There are two of us, that is, theft and Iisalmi, leaving, and we are genuinely asking if the cost is going somewhere else as travel expenses. Perhaps the costs will be passed on from the Ministry of Justice to the administrative sector of the police to an increasing extent. Is it the case that there is a lot of talk congestion in Kuopio, because there is simply not enough space there where things can be handled flexibly, quickly, humanly? In other words, it is indeed necessary for the Committee on Legal Affairs to examine this issue very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u50	Fru Talman! Enligt utkastet ska Västra Nylands tingsrätt läggas ner och införlivas i Esbo. Dossutom föreslås att Östra Nylands tingsrätt i Borgå också läggs ner och införlivas i Vanda tingsrättt. Esbo, och särskilt Vanda tingsrätter är båda i practiceken starkt finskspråkiga. Om man jämför Västra Nylands tingsrätt med andra tingsrätter kan man konstatera att det finns ett flertal andra tingsrätter, belagna i regional med en ungefär läädan eller lää stor befolkning som Västra Nylands tingsrätt men med battre communicationer till neraste stora tingsrättt, som ändå blir kvar. Till exempel Tenedalens tingsrätt har en befolkningsmängd på 173000 personer, unitefär dirt stor som nuvarande Västra Nylands tingsrättt. Den planerade Sodra Karelens tingsrätt har en befolkningsmängd på 131000 personer, alltså mindre än Västra Nylands tingsrätt. För Östra Nylands tingsrätts del kan man kostatera att Hyvinge bevaras fast där ändå finns battre tågförbindelser, åtminstone än från Västra Nyland, 30 minute och endast 60 kilometers köravstånd från Vanda. De rau tingsrätterna har inte liksom Västra Nylands tingsrätt en utpräglad uppgift att producera rätttjänster på två språk. Jag hoppas att både lagutskottet och grundlagsutskottet bedömer om det trots allt finns en grund för att hålla kvar tingsrätter i Västra Nyland och i Östra Nyland redan på språklig grund.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u51	Mr President! Once again, we are at a point where it may seem that we are not making a very big decision, even if it is in practice. But it still does, even though in practice it seems to be such practical arrangements that save up to EUR 7.5 million and so on. But in reality the effects are much more far - reaching and savings are not generated. In fact, there is a risk that the foundation of bilingualism in Finland will be broken. If anyone asks what makes Finland bilingual, I think that almost everyone would answer that we have the right to have justice and to receive services in their own language. Although the papers and government proposals clearly state that these'must be guaranteed' and'must be guaranteed' and'must be sufficient', we all know from experience that if special structures are not maintained or created, then in reality it is not that simple. For example, this risk that there are no auscultator places other than two places in Åland is quite clear, a very rapid threat that the number of judges in Swedish will be reduced. Of course, it would be great if everyone could know Swedish and Finnish enough to be able to provide those services in both national languages, but we know how this situation is, and we also know that some political forces also want the situation to be such that the Swedish language will be reduced from here in Finland. I am thinking, perhaps I cannot help but think, Minister of Justice, that you have now been left in the position of a slightly stereotypical basic Finns alone in the government and to pull down services in Swedish and that other government parties are getting out of this pretty easily. The government as a whole is, of course, responsible for this. It is obvious that the Committee on Legal Affairs will look at this and will have to find out what measures we need in practice in order to maintain these rights and legal certainty and to maintain a high-quality legal system for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u52	Värderade fru talman! Svenskspråkiga begår också tuvarr brott och blir anklagade. Men förändringen riskerar att urgröpa rättsskyddet för Svenskspråkiga ifall man inte kan garantera att domarna förstår den anklagades eller målsägandes språk, inte bara i tingsrätter utan också i hovrätter. Det auri kan redan i dag i practiceken vara fallet, och att TVå Svenskspråkiga parter därför väljer att använda finska i practicen effectsom man inte litar på att domstolens kunskaper i svenska är tillräckliga i practicen och att man är oroade för att det kan påverka domsluet. Men alla kan inte finska och reformen riskerar därför att undergräva rättsskyddet för Svenskspråkiga viiket är ytterst allvarligt. De summiska tvistemålen är mycket viktiga för Ålands tingsrätts verksamhet och jag hoppas verklogen att de summiska tvistemålen fortsätningsvis kan bli kvar på Åland. Nätverket av hovrätter berörs inte i det rai lagförslaget men det finns en oro över att det skulle ske förändringar också i nätverket av hovrätter i framtiden. Annat hovrätter är redan i dag rätt lågt i landet. Att sjörättsliga ärenden till exempel planeras att flyttas från Åbo till Helsingfors är oroveckande i det oxhändet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u53	Mr President! As the number of district courts drops from 57 to 36, of course, distances increase in many ways, and this is about the core content of the customer’s legal protection and access to justice, as has been said on many occasions. However, it would be important to maintain and secure personal contact at a service point within reasonable distance. In what way, then, in a tight economic situation in general, this could happen in the future, and one way of doing so would surely be to set up these joint service points in the municipalities, which would provide either personal or distance services in matters of justice as well. I understand in that way that in practice this would require only a few very minor legislative changes and, above all, cooperation between the state and local authorities. It is not even a question of resources, but of re-opening cooperation between ministries and between the state and municipalities. It is above all a question of trying to secure these services here too, on the legal front, in the highest possible quality. I would like to see this now, then, in committee, also considered what it would be like to replace it. Of course, I would also like the Minister, with his authority and the Ministry of Justice, to be very active towards the municipalities and other ministries in this joint service point area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u54	Madam President! In my opinion, this proposal for a district court reform is a real drastic cut in the district network when you think about what has been done in the past. It's like a follow-up. In my opinion, the main problems here relate to regional policy issues and linguistic rights. In the 21st century alone, the district courts have been reduced from 66 courts to the present 27 district courts, and more are now being presented. These additional proposals are now clearly undermining access to justice for citizens and, at the same time, undermining the legal protection of citizens, which I personally consider to be a very high risk. In addition, it is a matter of regional policy to shut down government jobs, given that the district court deals with matters of state administration, such as the police, enforcement, the Local Register Office, the Legal Aid Office and Veron. All these agencies will probably be considering the need for action in the areas where the district court has been abolished and, at the same time, the extent to which these peoples will operate in the large areas and may cause further closures of state institutions. These availability of state services also has an impact on the location of companies in the regions. It is also important for the regions in terms of economic policy. Now that we are going through the list of closures, it is noteworthy that a large proportion of them are located in areas where there are long distances. And when I think of Savo as a whole, for example, it happens that Savonlinna leaves, Varkaus leaves, Iisalmi leaves and Pieksämäki leaves. However, such a striking blow to such an area will be, it will also increase the inequality of human legal protection depending on the place of residence. In addition, it will significantly increase the cost of proof as the costs of travelling and loss of earnings for the Witnesses increase considerably. The reduction in the number of police officers and the extent to which their time is tied up in the transport of accused persons to the local court is also noteworthy. This will contribute to increasing insecurity in sparsely populated areas when police officers are unable to carry out their normal duties and patrols. Interesting thing was to read the Judge Union statement on the matter. Its main content was that by increasing district court areas there will be no savings, the timing of the project has failed, a broader study will be needed before far-reaching decisions are taken. However, following the previous 2010 reform, which reduced 24 district courts, the overall impact has not been achieved and would have liked it to have been prepared first when further measures had been taken. In my opinion, these closures of district courts There are no sensible alternatives in theft or elsewhere in the region as a whole, but they need to be maintained, as district courts play a major role in regional policy. I think it would be better to first examine the overall economic impact of these earlier solutions on the economy and first learn from it before continuing the additional sub-divisions of district courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u55	Madam President! "The unification of the courts is a shocking That cannot be allowed." This was stated by representatives Reijo Tossavainen and Jari Lindström in the Kouvola messages of 22 June 2012, when information became available on the abolition of Kouvola court and administrative rights as part of the reform of the judicial and administrative network. Now I would like to ask Minister Lindström when the question of the legal network in this proposal is: what has changed your mind? Emeritus Professor of Process Law Jyrki Virolainen has written in his blog that "it is expected that legal security will deteriorate as a result of the reform, as the Finnish Judiciary Association, for example, has stated. The reform will reduce the availability of legal protection and increase distances. The lawyers' activities are becoming more difficult, which does not, of course, contribute to legal certainty. The clear focus of the work of the district courts is on oral hearings, not on the written procedure, although the minister, who is a layman in legal matters, tried to argue otherwise at the press conference. " Mr President! Minister! At the moment, our district courts are not troubled by idleness. When almost a third of the network is cut, from 27 to 20, it cannot use any thought to improve the quality of justice. The Constitution provides for reasonable processing times. Cutting the network is an extension of processing times and does not in any way shorten processing times. How do you guarantee that the courts will then be able to carry out their constitutional duties? How do you define a reasonable period of time, Minister? In the present reality, however, you dare to present such a major cut in the district court network.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u56	Madam President! The proposal to reform and reduce the district court network is unquestionably problematic, but it is also a matter of this time, which means that we must take account of the realities of central government finances, the acceleration of the world, the progress of digitalisation and so on. What was good 10 years ago or 20 years ago may not be good today. In any case, we must keep up with this development and modernise these various processes, and this also applies to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, as the Minister said in his own speech. The fact that there is a great deal of concern about linguistic rights in this debate and that the Minister himself is here to hear this is extremely important. And, as the Minister said, this reform of linguistic rights and the thinning of the district court network will not interfere. If, during this process, or when the law has already come into force, such a problem is found, of course, it must be tackled with a great deal of effort immediately and correct those mistakes. After all, our Constitution guarantees that every citizen has the right to deal with both the courts and the authorities and then obtain a solution within a reasonable period of time in his or her native language. That is what this letter of the Constitution means, and this letter must be firmly adhered to. The Committee on Legal Affairs is on the very top of the temple, and the spirit of this referral debate must have been passed on to the members and chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, so this issue will certainly be dealt with very carefully there and the problems raised during this debate will be taken into account. What is important in this reform, however, is that judicial processes are developed as such. When we have a large part of the litigation going to district courts and running there for long, long periods of time, the process should also take into account the improvement of the possibility of conciliation and, in particular, so that those cases can be dealt with quickly and then moved forward. Finland is heading in a very worrying direction, especially in the administrative justice sector. We are becoming such an administrative justice society, where almost every issue can be appealed to the administrative court. Cases stand for a long, long and long time and cause enormous costs and, above all, investment is delayed and unemployment and unnecessary costs are incurred. That is why, although this is, of course, a matter of procedural law and a matter of district court, I hope that when the Minister is here, this administration will also be hit. We have a huge number of procedures that are completely incomprehensible from the point of view of the trial, which take years to reach a solution to the administrative court on a trivial matter, and I do not think that is justified in any way. I'll give you one example when I have the chance. A few fibre networks were built in Ilomantsi, and it was a simple matter of getting a decision from the authorities on whether to get a public, public road under the influence of a new stuffing method where a pipe is made under the road and then the cables are placed in that pipe, this permit, took 8 months. For 8 months, the papers were standing on the table of an official engineer in Tampere, and after 8 months, the solution came. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u59	Mr President! This is a huge piece of legislation that is now being reformed. There is a danger in many places that the child will go along with the bath water, so to speak. One is group actions, for example. Currently, there are five competent district courts in case of collective actions, and now they are reduced to one. All class actions come to Helsinki because they have hardly existed, and that is the case. For example, the consumer ombudsman may still not have reached the stage of court proceedings, or, if so, there are no more than one or two. On top of that, the trade union movement has for a long time promoted the right of collective action, but it does not seem to come there, and here is the spirit of the law and the spirit of the law in this regard, such that there are no collective actions in this country, will not and will not even come in the future. They'll be swept under the carpet. This is quite an advance reduction in legal protection: it will be ensured that legal protection for citizens cannot be extended in the future. This is very, very dangerous. In addition to that, what is really strange about this is that this argument says in plain Finnish that the reason for this whole job is the state of central government finances. Is this the case that in the country where the Montesquieu doctrine is used, money is the one that determines the use of Montesquieu’s doctrine and how it is used? Since we have independent courts, there is nothing we can do about them except with the power of money: then we can do what we want and get the judiciary as the government in this Chamber wants. Then, Minister, how do you intend to complete the completion and functioning of the new Swedish-speaking judges in general and to be able to complete their training and also to complete their auscultivation so that the Swedish-speaking population will also receive proper treatment in the courts?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u60	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the fact that the Minister is here to listen to us now throughout the debate. I have read this government proposal and, of course, particularly well these paragraphs, which write about linguistic rights. Quite often it is stated here that there must be a sufficient number of judges and a sufficient number of other categories of staff. What is the sufficient level, and how is it defined? There will be a list of these different types of language judges, for example, but will there at some point be an evaluation of whether or not linguistic rights are being implemented in practice? For example, Helsinki knows today that there are, if I remember correctly, three language judges. We know at the moment that many Swedish-speaking people choose that the trial will take place in Finnish, as there may be a two-year queue to get ahead. This concerns me how to define a sufficient number, at what stage to evaluate and take action, because we know that in practice we are facing enormous challenges in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u61	It is now 3:45 p.m., so, as previously announced, the debate and proceedings will be suspended. The discussion and discussion of the matter will continue at this sitting once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u62	We will now resume the debate on the 8th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u63	Mr President! In honor of the celebration and in order to secure a somewhat looser time frame, I thought I would come forward as soon as I had expected to speak from the beginning of the parliamentary sitting at 2 p.m., and now I will receive my prize within the minutes when this is an opportunity to express myself in connection with this matter. Mr President, I am not going to interfere with what happened earlier in the debate on the number of district courts, mainly their regional impact and their economic consequences with this reform, but I am going to deal with a detail which is certainly to be carefully assessed in committee, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I hope that this will actually happen in practice. And that is the way in which it is justified to concentrate on matters relating to the law of the sea with the help of this reform, because this aspect is also one of the substantive aspects of this reform proposal. The idea is, of course, that the centralisation of maritime law is the best option, and I am well aware that, among other things, the increased opportunities for e-services and the use of videoconferencing are points of view which are very much in favour of the fact that concentration in this respect can actually take place in practice, because the number of issues to be dealt with is reasonably low and the expertise used in them requires, of course, specific expertise around maritime affairs. In other words, there are a number of points in favour of the concentration of maritime law, as is the case with this idea, and it is being taken forward in this proposal. But the centralisation of maritime law cannot, of course, justify the fact that the centralisation of maritime rights in mainland Finland takes place in a single and specific district court, in this case the District Court of Helsinki, perhaps along with Åland. In the opinion of the best independent experts, it should be noted that the training of maritime law matters and all the related research in Finland is concentrated in Turku, Finland. Of the current district court cities dealing with maritime law matters, Turku only has the opportunity to study the maritime captain's training programme in Novia in Yrkeshögskola, and the Finnish universities also study and teach the maritime industry only, and only in Turku, i.e. maritime law at Åbo Akadem and maritime transport at the University of Turku Maritime Education and Research Centre. This maritime law expertise is the one mentioned above which ensures adequate trained judicial expert resources and, secondly, the possibility of selecting the most impartial experts to deal with matters, of course, always complex dossiers. In dealing with matters relating to the law of the sea, knowledge of both national languages is often needed. In the case of the District Court of Varsinais-Suomi, this is not a problem, as the prerequisite for obtaining a post is the complete knowledge of Finnish and Swedish in so many languages that it is lightly fulfilled in the District Court of Varsinais-Suomi. In the District Court of Varsinais-Suomi, maritime law matters have been centralised for many years for the same district judges who have excellent competence in handling the cases of this group. Of course, the District Court of Helsinki is by far the largest unit in Finland in terms of number of cases and personnel. However, with regard to this issue, it is stated, for example, in the case of military proceedings, that there is no reason to impose this large, already large, district court on this particular resource and area of expertise. The same argument applies even more to the transfer of all maritime law cases from other district courts to the District Court of Helsinki. I would like to ask why this should be done, to provide additional resources for one district court when, without resource increases and a huge amount of expertise infrastructure, the matter could be dealt with in another way. The estimated number of maritime rights cases to be dealt with each year does not give rise to the need for additional staff at the District Court of Varsinais-Suomi. President! Since further extension of the District Court of Helsinki does not appear to be operationally or economically justified, and since the District Court of Varsinais-Suomi has always dealt with matters of maritime law with the assistance of judges familiar with this area, there are all reasons for starting from a thorough investigation, weighing and evaluating this matter in the relevant committee hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u64	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u65	Mr President! Criminal liability has traditionally concerned individuals, i.e. natural persons and their reprehensible actions. In 1995 this responsibility was supplemented by the introduction of criminal liability on the part of the Communities, i.e. legal persons, in a number of serious types of offences. Since then, the criminal liability of the legal person has been extended to other offences. With this government proposal, it is proposed to extend the liability of a legal person to a serious accounting offence. The imposition of liability in the event of a serious accounting offence may also be considered fair to the legal person. An aggravated accounting offence is in itself a serious and often systematic crime and can be used to cover up other crimes, such as financial crimes, tax offences and bribery offences. This proposal therefore strengthens the fight against such crime. It also contributes to promoting fair competition. The same proposal implements the recommendation made by the OECD Working Party on Corruption in its country report on Finland. There has been very broad support for the proposal in its preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u66	Mr President! We must thank the government for its consistent and uncompromising work in favour of a better Finland, even though the opposite has sometimes been said. This motion also extends the liability of the legal person to a serious accounting offence. It is clear that this contributes to the eradication of corruption, although studies in Finland show that there is little corruption, but we call it the custom of the country. Even reading this presentation reminds me of the question of duration that I have asked many times before: How has this proposal not already been made by a previous government? Why did it have to wait all the way out here? The law is being proposed for entry into force as soon as possible, but why, for example, did it not come into force in 2010, when the matter first came up and it was taken into account on the grounds set out in the government proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u67	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Environment Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u68	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to reform the regulation on the redemption and establishment of the right of use of immovable property in connection with the implementation of the water management project. The aim is to bring the provisions of the Water Act on own redemption and the establishment of the right of use fully into line with the provisions on the limitation of fundamental rights of the Constitution. The provisions of the Water Act on Access to Water become applicable in almost all types and dimensions of water management projects, ranging from a single quay to a wide-ranging rationing project. The question of whether and under what conditions another area can be used to carry out a project is the question of the permissibility of the project itself. The aim of the reform has not been to change the conditions for implementing the water management project, but to implement, as far as possible, changes in access regulation so as to minimise their impact on the implementation of the projects. The main flaw in the existing regulation is that it obscures the protection of property guaranteed by the Constitution by allowing expropriation or the granting of rights of use having equivalent effect to a private need. We're about to give this up. In the future, water law procedures must ensure that a project serving a private need cannot be granted the right to redeem an area for its own use or for its equivalent effect. The actual impact on the use of property due to the right of use or restrictions of use may vary from relatively insignificant to almost total exclusion of the owner’s control. The legal challenge arises from the fact that, due to the diversity of projects, it is not possible to determine in advance whether this is an acceptable restriction of use or a constitutional expropriation. The proposal has been based on the inclusion of a set of criteria in the law to assess this aspect and the question would be resolved in the authorisation procedure on a case-by-case basis. So, what does the proposed changes mean from the perspective of the project promoters? According to estimates drawn up during the preparatory phase of the Act, the changes would not have a numerical significance for the majority of projects. However, two types of projects have been identified, the implementation of which may be affected by changes: new small hydroelectric power plants and water-heighting projects. The establishment of permanent access to hydropower has been regarded as a constitutional expropriation, and a small hydropower plant may not have the legal role to play in securing energy supply. However, the number of projects of this kind has been estimated to be small. On the other hand, projects aimed at improving the recreational use of water systems may involve raising the water level as well as other measures. This often requires the introduction of a second-owned area under water, which may involve compulsory expropriation of constitutional law. Efforts have been made to build regulation in such a way that it would identify different situations in order to make it possible to increase the average water level further in the context of water treatment projects, although it may no longer be possible in all situations. Mr President! Through various projects, the government has sought to dismantle the regulatory framework that is deemed unnecessary. The main objectives of this proposal are elsewhere, but efforts have also been made to reduce the regulatory burden of low added value. In the current law, the placing of different lines under the freeway has always required authorisation regardless of the impact of the project. A large proportion of these projects are of the same type in terms of impact and implementation and do not involve a need for ad hoc guidance. Such projects are proposed to be transferred from the scope of the authorisation procedure to the notified projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u69	Madam President! While many may feel small about what is being said here, as a citizen of the countryside, you can see that quite a few of the points that this legislation concerns have already come up against, for example, during my council career, the way in which wires are placed or the way in which water pipes are placed over water has been unduly difficult. I think this is going to get easier. It has not been so much a question of the fact that, in the end, for example, everyone who owns a share of the common water is not willing, but it has already been very hard to reach. I believe that this is going very well in this area of deregulation. Another point which you raised, Minister, is how water level adjustment affects the various parties, and it would not be quite so clear that tourism projects, for example, are considered to be of general interest. I think that is very good. We had a very difficult situation at our own big Kivijärvi where there were different kinds of interests. Perhaps now it is a good thing that this becomes clearer, as is the case with many other points. But the real reason I wanted to stay here is because we are talking here about rights to groundwater. I would like this debate to take place. I do not know whether this is coming to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, but at least in the committees where this debate is taking place there will be more in-depth reflection... - I think we're out of time. Do you want me to finish there or do you want me to finish here? [President MariaLohela : Win, 2 minutes to the roots. So you can continue, excuse me, from this podium, when two minutes on the spot just got full. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u72	Mr President! This is a very good piece of legislation, the fact that this issue of water is also being discussed. Because who owns the water? Water ownership and water issues are so obvious to us Finns that it is often not even discussed. And now this matter of water came up here with regard to these groundwaters and these waters, but the other issue is also these water rights of the waters. In other words, water is not actually owned, but water rights, related fisheries and all these things are owned. And these waters are very fragmented in ownership, and as far as fragmentation is concerned, I would also like us to be able to deal with how we can harmonise these divisions, so that we can have fewer divisions, and then we can start to do these things better legally. So much of these rights for the owners of the waters that, among other things, when a new fishing law was adopted, the status of water law owners was quite severely destroyed, for today it is no longer necessarily understood what the role and importance of the owner of the water law is in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u73	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u74	Mr. Speaker! The government proposal proposes to amend the provisions relating to financial benefits for prisoners. The aim is to amend the provisions so that the benefits paid to prisoners would encourage prisoners to participate more effectively in activities that are appropriate to the objectives of the plan. At the same time, the aim is to simplify the payment of these benefits. Under the proposal, all prisoners and prisoners of inquiry would be paid spending money for their time in prison. This money would be mainly intended for the purchase of essential basic supplies. It's about 50 euros a month. In addition, prisoners involved in these activities would be paid operating money or salary. The operating budget would be around EUR 100 to 200 per month, with a salary of around EUR 500 per month. The operating allowance would be paid as a daily allowance to the prisoners participating in the activities. The operating grant could be paid at three levels, taking into account, in particular, the progress made in the objectives of the penalty period plan. In addition to the operating grant, commissions could continue to be paid on the basis of completed work performances, for example in assembly and packaging work. Salaries would only be paid for work on behalf of a non-Criminal Sanctions Agency, so to speak. These changes would be implemented in a cost-neutral manner. Changes to other individual provisions are also proposed. The most important other amendments would be that, in the case of the transport of prisoners or prisoners of inquiry, it would be possible, under certain conditions, for all persons being transported to be bound for the duration of the transport. Under the current provisions, binding must be assessed separately for each individual prisoner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u75	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Prisons Act, the Penitentiary Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Community Sanctions. The proposal as a whole is very good, balanced and equal to the treatment of prisoners and increases their security. The proposal proposes that in future all prisoners should be paid spending money for their time in prison and, in addition, operating money for prisoners in their activities. This is a well-founded proposal, as the Minister has just said. The second key proposal is that the Prisons Act and the Penitentiary Act should provide for the possibility of binding all prisoners being transported for short-term transport. As a general rule, it would still be decided on the basis of individual judgement to bind a prisoner. In the future, the proposal would allow prisoners and prisoners of inquiry to be bound, by way of derogation from the current individual case-by-case examination, on the basis of more general considerations relating to the safety of transport. I believe that this is an important reform in terms of security as a whole. When a prisoner can be handcuffed or cuffed, the safety of the prisoner’s transport can be better guaranteed. We must remember that it may also be a matter of caring for the prisoner's own safety. It would not be the first time that prisoners were caught together during transport and the other would be damaged. This reform would also improve the status of the so-called 'fearing prisoner' during transport. Just compartments in transport are not always possible. In my opinion, handcuffs and tying should be used too easily rather than in fear of it — this comment is based on practical experience.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u76	Mr President! It is easy for me to continue with Mrs Kulmala's speech because I draw attention to the government's proposal insofar as it deals with the possibility of tying a prisoner up during transport. I consider the proposal to be justified, particularly because many prisoners today know their rights very well and can easily complain if there is a gap in the law. Moreover, a fundamental right-of-law interpretation requires precise regulation when it comes to the personal integrity of a person. This proposal is a good example of the fact that legislation identifies a deficiency in living life that causes problems for the authority and for the security of society. We need to be able to deal with that right away. I hope that the legislative amendment will give the authorities a better chance of improving the safety of prisoner transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u77	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u78	Mr President! The present government proposal proposes to introduce into the legislation provisions for a new sentence consisting of unconditional imprisonment and subsequent supervision. The penalty would be called a combined penalty. A combined penalty could be imposed on a repeater of a serious crime, who must be regarded as extremely dangerous to the life, health or freedom of another person. A first-timer would not be convicted of this punishment. A combined sentence would compensate for the full duration of the sentence in prison. Today, prisoners who are serving the entire sentence are regularly released from prison directly into society without supervision and support. This is a problem because it is the most dangerous prisoners, who in particular would need these measures to reduce their risk of renewal. This is one sentence, which consists of two parts: the period of imprisonment and the period of supervision. The probation period would therefore be part of the sentence on the combined penalty. The surveillance period would always last a year. The conditions for sentencing a combined sentence would be the same as those for condemning the entire sentence period today. With the exception of the proposed controls, the system would remain almost as it is. The content of the probation period proposed in the proposal would be defined, inter alia, on the basis of an individual risk assessment by the prisoner. The most important statutory obligations to be monitored during the monitoring period would be staying in the dwelling at certain times, intoxication at events related to the implementation of the control period, participation in activities and commitment to supervision. A serious breach of the supervisory obligations could result in the court turning the period of supervision into an absolute imprisonment of the remaining period. During the surveillance period, there would always be personal surveillance meetings and other activities supporting a life without crime. Control would mean both control and support. It benefits both society and control. The combined penalty would be in line with the general criminal policy line. This would therefore be a step-by-step and controlled, supported transition back to society. Today, those who have served the entire sentence in prison are quite often guilty of serious violent crimes relatively soon after their release. The proposed monitoring period should probably reduce their re-offence as the content of the monitoring would address the key risk factors of renewal. The proposal would be somewhat ducking the system of penalties. Since the reform would concern a very small group of prisoners, the impact of the reform on the crime rate would be limited. The proposed changes would be feasible within the available resources and would therefore not require additional resources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u79	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for presenting these government proposals in such plain language, in a very understandable way. As the Minister said, this government proposal proposes to create a new form of punishment consisting of unconditional imprisonment and subsequent surveillance. The content of the probation period would be defined individually, taking into account the danger of the prisoner. The demand for intoxication is also invested, which is really important. It is said that prisons would be full if there were no alcohol, so this study of intoxication and helping prisoners get out of it, namely alcohol, and becoming intoxicated is really important. The idea is that, after the period of supervision, the person would be caught in society, and that would be of benefit to everyone. If the results turned out to be good, it might be possible that there would also be a practice of extending the lesser crime to repeaters. And I would also say that the most important thing for citizens and for the whole legal system is that decisions on justice systems in general should be fair and that judicial processes should not really last as long as they sometimes last. Here was just recently an entrepreneur in Turun Sanomat, whose legal process from district court to court lasted 10 years: the district court strongly condemned, the court of Appeal released, but at this time he had lost everything. It sometimes wonders that the judgments of the District Court and the Court of Appeal, sometimes even the judgments of the Supreme Court, are so different.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u80	Mr President! The combined penalty proposed only applies to the most dangerous criminals and would therefore not be a very common form of punishment. It is a question of repeaters of serious crimes who would otherwise sit their full sentence until the end. It must be remembered that very often a sentenced person does not actually sit in prison for the time mentioned in the sentence. We already have the possibility of parole in Finland. At that time, a criminal sitting in an absolute prison will be released and will carry out the rest of the sentence on a free leg. It's not conditional imprisonment, note. the word "conditional" even though the name is similar. You don't sit in prison on probation at all. We must seriously consider whether such a new form of punishment is necessary. After all, it can rightly be seen as a further relaxation of our rather mild penal system. On the other hand, of course, the objective is the right one: to intervene at the exact time when a criminal is released from prison. After all, the risk of renewal is very high at that time. If this type of punishment is accepted, then its execution must be closely monitored and, in due course, conclusions drawn as to whether the use of punishment has had a real impact on the conduct of criminals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u81	Mr President! I very much welcome the fact that different forms are being looked at and sought, because, on the one hand, prison time is expensive and, on the other hand, the person does not get much rehabilitation back into society. These crimes are such that they become long penalties, which means that for many years they are out of normal life. I will check with the Minister: is it the case that if, for example, you receive a fixed-term sentence of 12 years, does it include one year in it or is it on top of it? That's not exactly what I understand about this. I tried to see this a little bit, I might not have been able to look for an example, but I'm sure it would have been found. But if you can do that, answer me. But perhaps in the case of that murder, I could have wondered if it was such a crime, for example, that it might be possible for a first - time person to think about the risk assessment. It has certainly been the case here that we should look at these repeat offenders, because it is a very long time in prison and then, through amnesty, we will be free, which means that it will be in prison for quite a long time. Maybe that's the kind of person who could have done that risk assessment for the first time. But it is a good thing that we are now going to find out what the results are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u82	Mr President! When we talk about penalties, the initiative we took in the spring — I said in plural, because there were more than 160 signatories — came to mind that the right to charge the manslaughter was not outdated. This initiative related to the killing in Nokia in the '80s. It has not been discovered and now the investigation has had to be closed, because even if the perpetrator were found, the prosecution is no longer present. The initiative went to the Committee on Legal Affairs and I understand that the Ministry of Justice has issued an opinion on it, but it is not a public document again, it is a committee. Is the Minister willing in any way to open up what might have been said in the ministry and how might it be possible to move forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u83	Mr President! I may be able to answer some questions. Mr Sea's question about how this is going: this goes so far as to have the unconditional imprisonment and the year after that of supervision. Here's the deal. To Mr Kiuru's question: I will find out where we stand on this matter. Over this combined punishment, so much so that when we visited Hämeenlinna in prison and there, for the first time, this was actually brought to the public, when there were criminal journalists there, the director of the prison in question, that is, the professional, considered this combination punishment a good thing, and precisely because these people did not go on top of nothing. When that experience comes from there, I personally appreciate it. Above all, there are people sitting here in the Chamber who are professionals in the field, and they will receive valuable feedback on this. That's something I hold in high esteem because that feedback comes through experience.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u84	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u85	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to improve the efficiency of the use of the business ban. Its proposals are mainly based on a programme to combat the shadow economy between 2012 and 2015. The proposal includes a proposal to extend the scope of the Business Ban Act to the professional activities of a private trader. It would no longer be relevant whether a private trader engages in business or professional activities. The proposal is based on amendments to the Accounting Act, which have entered into force at the beginning of 2016. In the revised Accounting Act, the same obligations apply to business and professional activities and there is no longer any need to distinguish between the nature of the two activities. A similar solution is proposed for the Non-Business Act. The conditions for imposing a business ban would be changed in such a way that the imposition of a business ban could not be justified by material non-compliance with legal obligations in the event of insolvency. The law would adopt the principle that the realisation of a normal entrepreneurial risk alone and the business becoming unprofitable cannot be the basis for imposing a business ban. In other respects, the grounds for imposing a business ban would also be specified in the case of non-compliance with legal obligations: this would not be a criminal procedure, which is another reason for imposing a business ban. These clarifications relate to the fact that, according to the proposal, the supervisory authority referred to in the Business Ban Act, such as the tax authority, would also be entitled to request an examination of the conditions of the business ban. The receiver referred to in the Bankruptcy Act could also make a request for an investigation. The request could be made in the case of material non-compliance with legal obligations, but not criminal proceedings. Under the law in force, such a request can only be made by the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u86	Excuse me, Mr President-in-Office, I am going through the basic course of the Minister of Justice, as it were, to hear the content of this sitting, but to this particular point, Mr President, I have nothing original to add.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u87	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u88	Mr President! One of the strategic objectives of Sipilä's Government is to reform its operating methods. It is done by means of digitalisation, by streamlining authorisation and limiting unnecessary complaints. We have also achieved results here. In fact, when the Confederation of Finnish Industries recently published an assessment of the length of the queue of investments awaiting authorisation decisions, it has been reduced by some EUR 700 million in a couple of years, but still by EUR 2.9 billion we have investment projects at different stages of the authorisation process. This shortening of the queue is not because companies invest more lazyly, but because companies are currently investing more heavily, and I am pleased that we have already been able to shorten that line by various measures. These measures are linked to changes in the Nature Conservation Act, changes in the Environmental Protection Act, changes in the Land Use and Building Act. But this work needs to be continued, and today's presentation on the table will bring some smoother changes to the environmental impact assessment. It is intended that different environmental procedures can be combined, but then, of course, more attention will be paid to these very significant environmental impacts. With the new law, there will be many changes to that good process, and as many as 15 other laws will also be amended. Perhaps the most important thing to mention is the possibility of pre-negotiation, where the Yva liaison authority, other authorities and the Yva project manager jointly outline that evaluation process. This pre-negotiation has gained good experience here in the area of environmental authorisation, and it is precisely it that has received praise from operators and entrepreneurs and is one of the reasons for the acceleration of the authorisation. These combinations of activities take place again so that the environmental impact assessment and the assessment of project planning can now be carried out in the same procedure and the Natura evaluation under the Nature Conservation Act can also be combined with the EIA procedure. These changes are expected to shorten processing processes over several months in projects where this type of activity is needed. But this is indeed only one change in this streamlining, a change in the way things work. It follows that we are preparing the one-stop-shop principle of environmental permits, an electronic search for permits and that some of the things that are now being authorised for the environment are being transferred to the notification procedure, but they will be heard later when they are completed. The most important thing is that the process of streamlining the projects is progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u89	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. To the brickman for moving this matter forward too. The Ministry of the Environment has now shown a great deal that work has begun to de-bureaucratise and rationalise activities, so that we in this society can also achieve profitability and results. Without moving these things forward, we would not bring society up. A great deal of work has been allocated to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in this sitting, and a number of government proposals have now come before us, but I welcome these, because they really do bring results. This bill on environmental impact assessment is a real de-bureaucratisation, rationalization. Of course, this is only the first step in this larger process, because I look forward to much more action after that. Well, I'm glad we can get this thing moving right now. Here, then, it is a good thing that environmental impact assessments can in future be more and more focused on the essentials, and indeed that assessments can be carried out together, so that not every single assessment can be carried out separately. I worked here before coming to Parliament in the municipality of Savukoski. In the municipality of Savukoski, the last post I held there was the office of the Secretary of the Economic Affairs and Social Affairs. Sokli's environmental impact assessment and environmental permit issues were the one that really worked for me. My desk came in during that process with an incredible amount of paper! There were so many different environmental impact assessment processes that, quite frankly, I fell completely short of which environmental impact assessment was going on at any time. Each had a bundle of paper several centimetres thick, there was an electric line, there was a road line, there was an environmental impact of the line, then there was an environmental impact assessment of the mining project itself. I felt that there was no one else there who knew where they were going. And in every single authorisation process, every single environmental impact assessment process heard the same people and each, just to be sure, put his own signature and text into every single environmental impact assessment. And then a surprise: it was not yet just an environmental impact assessment, and the environmental permit was dealt with and was then working entirely separately. And each of these matters became its own environmental permit process. Who kept up with you? I don't. But I know that there was a lot of paper, and this took, for example, a really large amount of working time for me, the municipal economic agent. How much work could I have done to develop the business and business life of that municipality? Now, for example, that small municipality, the municipality of just over a thousand inhabitants, had to spend a great deal of time working for its own officials to read those papers and organize them and see what the situation is. Well, then, it's a good thing this law is coming. I am very grateful that this legislative amendment will come, and then I am very pleased that the environmental impact assessment and the environmental permit process can be treated with the same ingredients at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u90	Mr President! This bill is excellent evidence of red tape dismantling, as has already been mentioned above. And in this context, I should like to thank the Minister and the people of the ministry for taking this forward, particularly this combination of evaluation procedures. But I think that this pre-negotiation procedure will bring a lot of good results when this is achieved. That is where Mrs Majala described the processes of this mining law in particular so that they have proved to be very painful for the community. We were just talking here about the water law and groundwater and who owns it, so in this context we could bring concern about that mining law. It is there that the prospecting of ore and the reservation of land for this search can be made against the will of the landowner, and I have received many heartfelt calls and communications that'my country may be sought for a purpose which I do not accept at all'. Especially in uranium-related and uranium-related areas, this concern has been severe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u91	Mr President! This bill is indeed an important part of this dismantling of bureaucracy. This is also significant in that this is a matter of very different size classes of plants and projects to which this environmental impact assessment procedure applies. For us, the size classes leave the mine, from the nuclear power plant to smaller units, such as certain waste management units, livestock buildings — they are again the smaller units that may be affected by this authorisation procedure — and it is also very good that this pre-negotiation procedure is now being introduced at the level of the law. This has been applied in certain ely centres for some time now, and there is good experience with it. But, above all, it is good from the point of view when we have small players. After all, large operators, when they carry out such large power stations and so on, have to say, this barrada and other resources to deal with these issues. However, when this is, in a sense, an expensive process, a well-founded process in itself and a demanding process for the operator, the investment designer, runs, this pre-negotiation procedure is of the utmost importance that it also safeguards the legal security of these actors, which, for example, are about to embark on their own investment or change in their activities. And I should like to thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u92	Mr President! The smoothing-up of the various procedures and the fact that the same thing is not done under different headings several times, but that the same or very close evaluation procedures can be combined, all of this is something that can be warmly supported. But so far there is evidence from this government that, in the name of streamlining, environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental legislation are actually being undermined. And in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we should also be careful to look into this matter and to ensure that, in the name of a good and worthy cause, the child is not thrown with the bath water.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u93	Mr President! So far, this Yva process has indeed been very long and confusing, and there is clearly a need for this clarification. I'll have to present it to the government and the Minister. Thank you, Mr Tiilikainen, for giving this proposal to this House, because this clearly improves this current situation. Of course, it would be important to assess the environmental impact of different projects at an early stage of these projects. This certainly does not mean that nature values or nature conservation are in any way compromised. In fact, this ex ante procedure protects nature better than the current procedure. I also see that, now that we are discussing these Yva processes, the clear sector specificity must now be removed and taken on such an overall responsibility. I see that this proposal is excellent and brings better regulation to this country than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u94	Representative Maijala and then Minister Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u95	Mr President! To what Mr Hassi has said, I would like to say the following when he said that this undermines environmental protection, as is the case with many other similar proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u98	Let us give the floor to Mr Hassi when his name was mentioned and then Minister Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u99	Mr President! Mrs Majala did not listen very carefully to what I said. I said that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should, however, be vigilant so as to ensure that the level of environmental protection is not undermined in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u100	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your comments. I would like to mention every name, unless it leads to further comments. That too is, of course, always permitted in Parliament. But thank you for the comments. Here you have well recognized this streamlining and the combination of these environmental impact assessment procedures in the speeches of both the chairman of the committee and other representatives. I would like to emphasise that procedure of pre-negotiation. After all, we now have the best environmental protection expertise and versatile experience available to us most often from the environmental authority. It is a good thing that this ex ante procedure works, because then the expertise of the environmental authority is already a little more than advisoryly used by the project planner. And this is exactly what is needed, better interaction between environmental authorities and operators. That is what this bill is trying to bring. I believe and, of course, I hope that the committee will work carefully here and that this does not have any weakening points, because this is not the way it is intended, but is intended to streamline and ensure that a good level of environmental protection is maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u101	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u102	Mr President! It is a great pleasure to bring this presentation to the House, for it is a sign that Finland, a hundred years old, will receive a new national park in 2017. Not only does the national park, of course, contribute to preserving biodiversity for future generations, but it also promotes entrepreneurship based on nature tourism in Kainuu and thus creates new permanent and seasonal job opportunities. On my presentation in January, the Ministerial Group on Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions decided that the National Park for the centenary year will therefore be established in Suomussalmen Hossa and Moilasenvaara and On the side of the town of Kuusamo, in the region of Cruel-Olky. These areas are already state-owned and are part of the Natura 2000 programme. When making that choice, there were practically two candidates, Hossa and Porkkala. The most important criterion for this festival national park was also that it had historical significance, immediate and indirect, in the process of Finland’s independence and its preservation at a later date. I was also impressed by the local and regional unity and commitment to this park. It was easy to play Hossa National Park to start. That Porkkala was also a good target, but there was not yet a similar readiness. However, I was pleased that we were also able to allocate EUR half a million to the development of Porkkala, and it has given rise to satisfaction in that area as well as the reform of service structures. Of course, there are always expectations that the national park will have a regional economy and an impact on employment, and so at the moment when we know where the Finnish economy is — we still need measures to promote employment. Hossa will be Finland’s 40. National Park, and its number of visitors has increased already during the preparation process. The 100th anniversary park of our independence has also received international publicity. Among other things, Lonely Planet and National Geographic have raised Finnish national parks and in the same context it is Hossa's internationally recommended destination for nature tourism. We can be proud of this. New entrepreneurs have come and are coming to Hossa's network of tourism entrepreneurs. French visitors, for example, are establishing their position as Hossa’s annual guests. The Hossa bill has been prepared in exceptionally close cooperation with local authorities, especially the municipality of Suomussalmi. For the exchange of information, a joint cooperation group has been established between the localities, Metsähallitus and the Ministry of the Environment. At municipal level, preparation has also been carried out by a separate working group representing different actors from protectors to hunters. Hossa National Park will be over 11,000 hectares. It consists of two Natura 2000 sites. However, some state countries are limited to hunting, fishing and tourism development needs immediately outside this park. Also in the park area, according to the bill, local hunting rights and local enjoyment are maintained. I am convinced that the 100th anniversary national park of Finland's independence will be established in the right place, where our independence was first required. Hossa National Park will be a wonderful gift not only for independent Finland, but also especially for Finland and Kainuu, where it can bring new well-being. Hossa National Park is the story of human-natural co-existence for many thousands of years, and I would like it to continue in peace in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u103	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen very nicely concluded his presentation so that Hossa is an example of the co-existence of man and nature for several thousand years. That's right. In Hossa there are very important historical values that begin with prehistoric history: prehistoric rock paintings and deer-hunting pits, more than a hundred years ago folk poetry has been collected there, the reality that is central to the history of Finland's industrialization is clayhouses and swimming structures, and also one of our classic writers, Kianto, and K.J., the first President of the Republic, K. J. Ståhlberg. All these highlight the historical value of Hossa, as well as the nearby Raateentie, where one of the main battles of the Winter War was fought. In the Hossa region in the 1990s, there were a lot of striking forest disputes, whether old forests were protected or cut down. Perhaps even these forest disputes will sometimes be viewed as part of the history of Finland, which must also be told to posterity, and perhaps Hossa is one of the places where it is told. For natural values, Hossa complements the national park network very well. The Minister also spoke about the unity of the region. This is a fact, and it is based on the fact that the impact of national parks on the local economy is very positive. Some decades ago, when the national park network was substantially expanded, this was by no means self - evident. In the 60s to 70s, many national park projects were strongly opposed, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u104	Mr President! This bill in the debate is very important to me. This Hossa National Park is coming to my village of Julmaan-Olkkyy, and the very good thing about this presentation is that, as the Minister said, the people of Finland and the entrepreneurs of the village of Hossa have been determined to push this forward. Mr Hassi has already reviewed the history of the region, that it has already been in use in prehistoric times. The park comes very close to the border between Old Lapland and Lanna. In the 18th century there has been a Lapp village in Maaselä a few ten kilometres away, and these pictures of the Color Rock tell us about the successful hunting expeditions, from there from 3,000 to 400 years ago. This area was settled in the middle of the 17th century, and then the cuckoo farmers came to the villages nearby. Wilderness forests and fishy lakes gave to families who arrived at the time, and tar was burned in the village, which was then bathed through the Hossa River through Lake Oulu to Oulu. Fishing and hunting are still important hobbies and give the people of the region, the people who live there and those who spend their leisure time there. Reindeer farming has a strong tradition of centuries in the region. There's a Hossa-Irn County in the park area. There are still at least three fixed reindeer separation fences in the area of the future park. The bill has ensured that reindeer husbandry and reindeer husbandry will continue as before in the future park. I hope that the rules of the park will then ensure that the activities of reindeermen there are also successful, i.e. moving around in the park area. Although the preparation time for the future park and its law is short, only less than a year, as the Minister said there, one can only thank for the involvement of local people in this preparation. The preparatory work has very well involved the players in the region and their views, and therefore perhaps the opinions on the draft law are, as a rule, positive. Maybe that's what it's all about. One of the statements is from Ruka's school students. Young people think it is a very good thing to have a new park there. They hope for an increase in nature tourism, but they are concerned that the opportunities for traditional hobbies, fishing and hunting will be reduced in the park area. In addition, young people pay attention to park structures: they consider it very important that all buildings used for nature tourism should be constructed from materials with a long life cycle. I would like to add to this a few comments that I have received since the end of the period — this law has been read in every room: The bill includes the removal of large predators, as presented by the Hossa-Irn and the Association of Paliskunta. However, this will change the hunting of the major predators that cause the current damage, including other hunters, and not just these reindeermen in the Paliskunta. Of course, the number of hunters and the composition of the group vary from one yacht to another, but according to my estimates, even more than half of the hunting groups would have to wait at the park’s border for the hunt to progress. This, of course, slows down and makes it more difficult for the predators to hunt. The bill would only allow out-of-towners to hunt moose in local hunting clubs. There are currently more than half of the members of local hunting clubs in out-of-town municipalities, but these out-of-town residents still have very long family traditions for use in the area, very often through their farms, where they have a free-time residence. In fact, hunters suggest that the national park would allow all game hunting to be allowed for members of local hunting clubs under the permit conditions. Another tradition, the fishing tradition, has been well taken into account in the proposal. Recreational fishing with static gear is permitted in nine lakes belonging to the park and also seined together. In addition, lure fishing is allowed in two lakes. We need to add something to this. The area remaining in the park on the Kuusamo side is about 100 hectares, which is a water area managed by the fishing community of the villages of Kuusamo, whose use is not restricted by the national park. Two of these lakes, Laukujärvi and Somerojärvi, also extend to the park. I would therefore like to ask whether fishing should also be possible for a part of the park, so that part of the lake is not in the fisheries sector and part of the lake is not in the fisheries sector, and whether, in accordance with their opinion, the members of the Selkoskylä partnership should also be given the right to traditional fishing gears, including Lower and Central White and Long-Hoil and Kokalmus. The 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence has been founded not only on nature conservation values, but also on culture and the history of the region. The park has a cultural role and a strong connection to the history of Finland's independence in the region. The social impact is very beautifully set out in the explanatory statement of the bill, even poetically. Hossa will be a magnificent, different national park for the chain of existing parks. I believe that the new park will become a tourist centre in the southern part of Upper Kaunu and North-East, surrounded by a network of companies that exploit nature and traditional culture. As the Minister said, last year the Hossa Park received positive international publicity, so I believe that the number of visitors will increase dramatically in the coming year, perhaps even during the centenary year. I hope that in the future, in the years to come, we will be able to take care of the park area as well as the nature sites and management of the future park area in the vicinity of Metsähallitus. In the case of scarce resources, at least quality should not be reduced in order not to spread the message to international arenas. I hope that this legislative proposal will be dealt with in committee at a high pace and in a very positive spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u105	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it is a great moment for me to be able to deal with the National Parks Act for the third time during my parliamentary work. This is indeed the third law in six years and very fine. The previous speaker said that in a good spirit and brisk manner, I believe this is what will happen in committee. I understand that this proposal is very unproblematic. Perhaps there may be some fine-tuning related to fishing and hunting, but hardly much more. These historical reasons have been identified here. It has been said that this is a great project to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence. That is indeed the case. It is really great that the support of the municipality, the support of entrepreneurs and local residents is strongly involved in this. If this were not the case, it would be rather desperate to take the project forward. Then it would not really come to an effective solution. It has also been noted here that the number of visitors will certainly increase. In 2015, there were 53,000 visitors, and now that this national park status is most likely to occur in June, the number of visitors will increase further. Of course, it puts certain pressure on routes and infrastructure, which is already there, but we must hope that we will have the opportunity to maintain this great network of national parks. We can add almost, well, not now limitless, but we can. But the problem is, of course, that it is not enough just hectares if there is not enough money then to keep it infraa in order. For example, the Color Rock mentioned here and the structures through which you have been able to look were, at least a few years ago, in the condition that no hikers were allowed there, but this is certainly going to be all right now, with 2.5 million money in circulation. Two major international players have recently mentioned Finland as a very interesting tourist destination, and I believe that this trend will become even stronger, the importance of nature values will increase. On the other hand, the importance of security can never be overemphasized, and in a very difficult and somewhat unstable world situation, Finland will have an advantage in this regard, and hopefully this will continue to be the case in the future. The peaceful environment in which society operates and transport operates and the structures work is what people, tourists, want and seek. Thank you very much to the Minister for moving this forward. Carrots were also a good option, and we also received more money for them, as I recall, EUR 500000. That's good. If I wanted to continue to have a vision, I would see it, and I know that many experts also see that the area of the Great Tunctures of the Arms could be a target that could complement our national park network in the best possible way in the future. I know that, among other things, Mr Kärnä's views are not entirely appropriate, but if we could move forward in the medium term so that the locals can be heard well, local livelihoods will be well heard and perhaps some minor adjustments or changes in such a way that local livelihoods will not be jeopardised in any way. How much wealth and well-being national parks bring to their environment is really a big deal. It seems to be over 120 million euros that national parks bring to the local economy a year with tourists. I believe that it would also be possible to build a model in Kilpisjärvi that supports the local economy and is acceptable to the locals, but if this is not the case, it should not be forced to do so, of course, because local support is always important in these matters. With these words, I thank you. We will certainly be dealing with this issue in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in a positive spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u106	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kiuru for the fact that, in fact, this local support for the establishment of these parks is extremely important, and the situation there in the Arms is clearly and clearly that the locals do not want that park there. Of course, all kinds of things can always be discussed, but unfortunately, we at Enontekio also have bad experiences with these parks that have been set up. Certain things have been promised to the locals, the preservation of certain rights, but this has not happened at the end of the day. And when tourism is carried out in that large area of the handrail, it is extremely important that the park area — if it were to be there — be able to move motorisedly and also to drive tourists. I understand that, within the framework of the current legislation, such activities in the national park are explicitly prohibited.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u107	Mr Kiuru and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u108	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kärnä for his local knowledge and clarification of the local moods. That is certainly the case, and I also know for myself that that local support is not yet what it should be if the national park is taken forward. Mr Kärnä raised this issue of snowmobiles, and it may be like one that describes the problem. I would ask Mr Tiilikainen: how do you, as Minister, see the possibility of great-sensors and then the coordination of such matters, for example, what Mr Kärnä has said here? The area is quite exceptional in Finland, and we certainly do not have such an area elsewhere. I believe that the national park, if properly implemented, would also have the benefit of everyone in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u109	Mr President! Here in the hall we shouted and discussed where Finland’s 100th anniversary national park will be, and we managed to get it into Hossa National Park, thank you. Now, however, we must remember that the people of the Hossa region really want and hope that there will be a national park there, and now it is very important that we go ahead with that, taking into account the wishes and demands of the local people on how to develop the matter and the region. There are a few things about it: one is about fishing and the other is about hunting, nothing more. So the same basics that have been discussed for many other national parks. But now we have to take into account the fact that this is a northern area, which is very much in line with the conditions of Lapland National Parks, but does not exist in those areas of Lapland. We have certain special rights in national parks in the north, including moose hunting. In that area, we still have to edit, refine, read and check this bill several times and see what it means. For example, fishing with nets and in traditional ways in general must be made possible for the local population, which has been managed in the same way. There must be no additional difficulties and problems. And the other is this hunting thing. As Mrs Parviainen pointed out, this removal of the beasts and the fact that the problem has generally been the fact that, when the territory of the Paliskunta often extends to the neighbouring community, the shareholders of the Paliskunta who live on the side of the neighbouring community would not be able to participate in it in the removal of the beasts. So there are a few of these things that we need to look at even more closely. We are now setting up 40 in Finland. National Park. By the way, it's such a big deal that we have quite a responsibility to run these parks. It is not a cheap system for getting infrastructure, staff, all services, advertising, related tourism issues and all the other things that have been kept up. It costs the state quite a few euros a year. And now we have noticed in the UK Park, which I know best as my closest park, that in that area many tallwood trees, even toilets, have gone so badly that we start to think about what is being dismantled and taken out of them because there is no money to manage them. This is a very serious matter: what are we going to do to maintain and maintain this park network? Now, in honour of Finland's 100th anniversary theme, we have received a little more money in the budget for managing and maintaining the infrastructure of parks, but we really need to think about how we are going to solve this issue in the future. We have a great network of 40 parks. Their unity must be used more in advertising and marketing. Thank you for this. Now, under Midsummer, we are going there in Hossa to set up this park and celebrate the occasion. Only say hello to the Kuusamo and Suomussalmi area that hopefully we have been able to help you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u110	Mr President! I can only agree in so many ways with what has been said here today. It is excellent and absolutely brilliant that this Hossa National Park was established, for which I especially thank Minister Tiilikainen and, of course, the entire government. The establishment of the Hossa National Park is without problems in many ways. It all started from the fact that this was its own performance, there was strong support for this national park, so this has been a good foundation in many ways. Of course, it must be said personally, when some reference has also been made here to these possible new national parks or new nature reserves, that perhaps with the establishment of this Hossa National Park my enthusiasm has already been quite satisfied with the establishment of new nature reserves, to put it mildly. Although it has been stated here that the bill is in many ways unproblematic, there has also been reference to hunting and fishing, among other things. It is true that, in the context of the discussion of this draft law here in Parliament, it is worth carefully assessing whether this proposal now contains some problems with regard to the right to hunt and the right to fish, and then, if necessary, to make some clarifications. But, indeed, these miracles in this Chamber itself are to be commended for the creation of a new national park — thank you to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u111	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the old batch traditions of the region are also taken into account in the draft law, other than in this text alone, i.e. also in the form of acts. In addition to the restrictions that normally apply to the National Park, I believe that the proposal takes good account of the exceptions to hunting opportunities in situations where there is a long tradition of hunting. Of these, we are also reminded of rock paintings in the region. There is no need to make changes to the current hunting use of the nature reserve. It would not make any sense, for example, to ban the hunting of small game in the area altogether or, for example, to create a calming area for small beasts where they would be allowed to reproduce freely. That would be a crime against other species of animals. As I mentioned, the law must continue to allow all game hunting in the area of the national park, under the conditions of authorisation, of course. Allowing hunting in this way is in line with the purpose of establishing a national park. Only in this way will it be possible to maintain the balance of species for future generations. I also think it is important that the normal need for domestic fishing continues to be possible through conventional gears and instruments. Many water bodies in the region are currently too dense a strain of rivet, stake or perch, which can only be effectively reduced by scaffolding and gillnets. This will improve living conditions for so-called more valuable fish. After all, the state of the water systems is already good in the national park.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u112	Mr President! It is good that Hossa gets her own national park, and when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence, it is a sign event for the people of that region, I believe. I have heard the speeches made by representatives of the region and I am convinced that the decision is the right one. I would, however, like to see the reality recognised in the midst of this, let us say, a small spirit of fascination. The first reality is that when a national park comes into the area, it is absolutely necessary to guarantee the rights of local people by law. It's about hunting and fishing. There are so many examples that various Metsähallitus regulations have limited elk hunting, for example. Let me give you an example: Put a limit on the strength of the dog needed to hunt moose so that only dachshunds or Chinese palatants can do the terrible thing. Bigger dog can't get permission. So I hope, Minister, that, in this respect, the expectations of the public that they will be treated fairly, and in the constraints that the national park will inevitably bring, let us be honest: the National Park will bring restrictions. It is clear that life in that area will no longer continue by the same means as before the official establishment of the national park when the law is drawn up. Which means it's gonna change. That's for sure it's gonna change. There are 39 national parks in Finland — this is 40. — and about one million hectares of land in all national parks in this country. So, of course, these areas are not there for traditional economic purposes. They severely restrict hunting and fishing, and then the use that is is the use defined by law, the use of national parks, which is all right. The great wealth of this national park chain is that they exist in different parts of Finland, and it has been able to preserve in a way the original nature that is typically present in that area. In these areas, such targets have always been found. In that sense, it is good and right. But we must also recognise that nature reserves are part of this same chain. There are 19 of them and 160,000 acres — about, a little short. These areas have been dedicated to science, so that restrictions on movement are clearer, but they are also nature reserves. Now that the Minister is here... For example, in the Ilomants of Petkeljärvi National Park: For 10 to 20 years, the municipality has been hoping that it will finally be put in order. It doesn't tempt you to go to that national park when it's such a drink cart, that if you own dentures, you should put them in a soft bag before you go on that road. In other words, when something is done, let's do it properly and not leave it by the way that great is the place, fine are the buildings, great is the service, but that road there is such a drink cart, that is not a lot of enthusiasm to go there. Getting on that road with a bicycle — it doesn’t bother to break a good bicycle. You might want to go on foot if you can walk. That is, this setting is in order, since these things are done. Let's get those roads in order and put that service equipment in order that people can actually travel there, enjoy Finnish nature, but also take into account the rights of local people: hunting and fishing. Quite a number of people have said in this Chamber now during this debate that the rights of local people must be guaranteed by law. I am tired of believing, after decades of dealing with the Ministry of the Environment, that the promises made by officials will then be the final state of justice, which will be achieved. That's not the case. So many ten times I have been disappointed and so much money lost because of untenable promises. Parliament must therefore require that all these precise rules be taken directly into the law, that they are not amended by regulations. Otherwise, in a way, this is going to go down against itself when the restrictions come and the local people get disappointed. People in rural areas are used to being disappointed, but they would like to see no further disappointment in this matter. And finally, Mr President, the fact that when a model like this has come to pass in Finland, that only protection protects forests, that is not true. All forests in Finland are in themselves valuable genetic reserves, nature parks in their own way. It's just as suitable for thinning, it's perfect for regeneration, it's perfect for picking berries, picking mushrooms, hunting, fishing and so on. But when we have this kind of image created that there is a confrontation that forest logging is deforestation and protection is then the other extreme and nothing else is there, this is completely wrong fantasy. We have to get rid of this, because the Finnish forest, the right of everyman, is a great wealth. That is why we must ensure that we do not overly restrict the use of Finnish forests. We are beginning to have, as I said, a million hectares of national parks, over 150,000 hectares of natural parks. Natura sites and other areas of treasure, including such areas, have 5 million hectares of areas under various restrictions, and the forest area, which is in Finland, remains less than 30 million hectares. You might want to stop at this house to think about whether we still want more financial restrictions on the use of forests in Finland, because it is clear that berry harvests, mushroom harvests and many other uses of nature will largely depend on whether Finnish forests are reduced and cut down. Crops of lingonberries and other berry crops will not grow unless forests are reformed. It is clear that the best harvests of lingonberries are between 5 and 10 years after the harvest when a small seedling is born. Then you'll have lingonberry on the Ilomants' poles at least as much as you can carry. This is why I also wish this house critically that not every thing... If we all make a national park or a natural park, this nation will then be threatened with a very heavy fall in living standards. Wood raw material must no longer be used and many other economic activities are halted, the extraction of soil and so on. I warmly support the establishment of the Hossa Park and congratulate the region on having this year of independence park for itself. But I hope, Mr Minister, that these words will be protected by law, not by any promises or regulations, but by law, because the law always requires the handprint of this house and it is a much greater security than the half-baked promise made by an official, the integrity of which I have not always been able to believe is true — perhaps because of my slow intelligence — but in such a way that people’s everyday life is safeguarded, and it is best secured by clear legislation in this case too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! When there is a government proposal for Hossa National Park, it is easy to think about the national parks that you have been able to work on during the two preceding parliamentary term in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and in this Chamber — or not really in this Chamber, but in that neighbourhood. In particular, I have in mind the pearl of my own region, Teijo National Park, which took place during the last parliamentary term. This is the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence, Hossa. In addition to safeguarding biodiversity and landscape values, the establishment of the National Park has a wealth of meanings related to recreation and nature tourism, the economic and welfare effects of which are far from negligible. We have read how the number of visits and favourable economic effects of national parks are increasing in their regions. What may even be most important in addition to biodiversity is that people feel that national park visits improve their well - being. In the context of the establishment of national parks, the proposal also takes into account the fishing and hunting rights, which are widely spoken about, so that certain derogations are provided for in terms of fishing and hunting which take account of local circumstances and which do not conflict with the objective of establishing a national park. This is an important point in terms of the perspective and the state of the region, if you are thinking about the establishment of national parks in which you have been involved. For Teijo, for example, there have been exceptions, but it seems that in the case of Hossa too, there is talk of fishing and hunting. In other words, everyone is basically in favour of national parks, but then there is always the little problem of what happens in the region in terms of recreational fishing and hunting. In this referral debate, I wish Hossa a great deal of luck, as the Director General of Metsähallitus said: "Nature will increase Finland's competitiveness."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u114	Mr President! This is indeed a fine and impressive decision that, in honor of Finland’s centenary celebration, this national park has been decided to establish. And just as Mrs Parviainen said earlier, this is also a very important issue for the inhabitants of the region, and this national park project seems to have widespread public support in the region. And, of course, I also agree with those speeches that have also wanted the survival of the local form of life, despite the establishment of this national park, which is, of course, a good thing. These national parks have many significant regional economic impacts. Pre-Hossa National Park, which has now been established, has had many beneficial and positive impacts on the entrepreneurship and business life of the region. And I believe and hope that this park in Hossa will have these good effects now too, and I am sure they will also be linked to this broad support which this project has had in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u115	Mr President! I would like to express my best thanks to the government and Minister Tiilikainen. This is how the national parks are established. Hossa now gets her park because Hossa and the municipality of Suomussalmi wanted it there. There has been much discussion here about the impact of these national parks on the local economy, and to this extent I cannot share all the views that Metsähallitus has expressed. For example, we in the north should make a significant contribution to the development of ancillary services that will enable those parkers and tourists to use these local services there. Regrettably, it is often the case that we reach the north from here to the south with a car full of food, provisions, a pack of backpacks, a week’s visit to the drill, and then we return here to the south. Those effects on the regional economy are close to zero. This was also the subject of a debate, raised by Mr Kiuru, on this Haivarre National Park, which was almost forced to be driven to that arm by the then Minister Niinistö during the last reign. When we stood up there and announced that we did not want this park on the arm, I received a letter from the head of the local Nature Directorate from Alaska who said that you were crazy when you did not want that park there. To the arm that they are very important here in Alaska and they will bring us all the living we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u118	Mr President! Of course, we must remember here that parks are set up on the basis of the Nature Conservation Act, that is, thinking of the way in which you have to give up something new and then you have to give up some of the previous ways in which you can get this park status. A lot of good structural stuff has already been done in that park, built new in the last summer. There are bridges being repaired, there are slabs being built, there has been a refurbishment, among other things, of the Kourkallio bridge mentioned by Mr Kiuru. It was in bad shape, but now it's a great new, durable bridge. One of the things you've been worried about in that park is the telephone lines. When there is a great deal of mobile technology involved in guiding the park, that there is a reception everywhere in the park, solutions are being sought. Hopefully there will have been more reception in early this year. Let me also say that I am now well aware of the issue of reindeer husbandry in the Hossa-Irn Prize. The only thing that's going to happen is that we're gonna have to take care of it if we think about it from the Hossa-Irn beam. But then a little bit of the same message that Korhonen had there. I have a clear message from the forest operators that no new areas for protection. We have a reasonable amount of protection and concern about how, for example, timber will be delivered to the sawmills in the future. I think we should find ways, as in the case of the Hossa Parks, to make some use of those protected areas. After all, the status has now been raised from the camping area to an internationally known park status, and it is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u119	Mr President! Two more things: The second concerns the Finnish way of protecting nature. Just as Mr Kärnä witnessed in his own speech about nature conservation in North America and Canada, it is actually doing what he said, that is to say building a good infrastructure and providing services. We have such a way in Finland that when something is protected, it is total protection, nothing can be done. Take, for example, Koli National Park, where there is one hotel on top of the danger. If we could build a little more and thus increase the tourist flow, more beds would be placed in that beautiful landscape, it would create a whole new growth, new work and, above all, make its hugely beautiful landscape known. Finnish architecture is capable of doing this, but we have this huge attitudeal handicap, which leads to protection being total protection, and it has led to very strange situations. The second point relates specifically to this strict nature protection, which is not European nature conservation — that is what we need to get to, that is where we need to be able to use the regions. This is the northern part of Lapland, where, for example, the Sakat mine site is located, and this Natura area has been forced into it since then, which causes nothing to be done. This will mean that the American Anglo American mining company, a supranational, hugely rich company with money, will keep that claim to itself, and one day it will mine it from there. That day will certainly come, it will bring the vast natural riches to itself and out of this earth. And Finland, if anything, needs new capital, new work and the benefits of these natural resources, which should come to the citizens of Finland and not to the American investors. This is a very serious problem and I hope that we will have the courage to discuss this. This nature conservation only leads to all Finnish wealth being passed on to foreign owners or protected and then we are starving,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u120	Mr President! Here's a little like two aspects: The other extreme is represented by this idea that the regions should be fully protected. Another aspect is that no matter what the area is, a good road and other ancillary services must be built there. Somewhere in the middle, I guess the truth goes. Now, of course, whenever you think about any such nature site, you should consider why those people come to that area. And now, if I was thinking of Hossa, or in particular Saana, for example, I would think that people would come there to enjoy that nature. I have heard that Saana is planned around, or at least behind Saana, on the basis of the road to see what the mountain looks like on the other side. This sounds a little strange to me, because that silence and ignorance and carlessness is exactly what you go there for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u121	Mr President! In fact, when I have visited nature reserves and other remote places on a trip, the main reason has been the quest for peace of nature and the sound of nature in the middle of it. But I actually asked to speak on behalf of Mr Kärnä when he suggested that there would be some prevailing practice in the United States that hunting is allowed in national parks. On the Internet, I quickly found that in 2012 there was a dispute about a bill in the United States that would have allowed it in all national parks. I do not know if it has gone through, but then the situation was that between 60 and 70 were national parks where hunting was allowed. It related to the reasons for the establishment of these parks, the related historical reasons, that is, where hunting was allowed, it related to the history of that place. And in some parks then hunting was not allowed. I myself have visited one of the National Parks of the United States. There I especially remembered the warning of the bears about the hikers. So it was warned that, for example, no food should be taken into the tent, and if you are staying, you must put in a metal container with food to avoid feeding the bears. I also know that there are national parks in the United States where wolves have been returned, and it has significantly increased
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u122	Mr President! In conclusion, I hope that the local people in Suomussalmi, Kuusamo and in that region, including the local regional union, will now take care of this — and also the local MPs who are currently sitting here and have made good use of the speeches in this part-session, you will see to it — that these matters that are important to the people of your region are recorded in the law. The name 'experience': in my municipality of Ilomants, for example, in the Petkeljärvi National Park, the rights of hunting and enjoyment in that area have been constantly threatened, the most imaginative restrictions have been created and then the arrival of these Natura sites at the end of the 1990s caused a huge change. There has been such a phenomenon that when you take a natural park or a national park for example, there are certain restrictions on it, and there are restrictions on hunting in Natura, for example, because of the protection of a species, the ban on hunting and prohibitions of use have been sought to make the whole region so harsh, which is completely contrary to the principle that these areas have been established and what the rights of local people are. It is not nature that everything is banned, which is the Finnish view and, above all, the Greens' view of protection in this country, which has been taken up in the media as a great mantra, which must be respected by everyone. Nothing should be done in that area once the area is protected. That is by no means the case. After all, in Europe, protection is done in such a way that when a region is protected, if a plant is found there or someone else, then it is protected from that smaller area and the rest of the region is just as normal. That's the way it should be. As far as the other activities of these national parks are concerned, now demand that proper roads be built there in Hossa. For example, the road to Ilomants of the Petkeljärvi National Park, The road from Möhköntinen is in such a terrible condition that it is strange in a way that when the state builds a fine, fine showroom there — it has restored the trenches, corvettes and other monuments that have taken place in the area during World War II, and above all the beautiful nature and saunas have been built, the places to stay, the fine restaurant, the meeting rooms and so on — and so on — all its pearl, all its beauty, is one of the brakes of a very bad road to the area. It doesn't really fit in my head to build a tourist place first, and then there's a no-good road. Well, of course, if it wants to tell us that we want to be here in peace, it's probably going to work, but what does the entrepreneur who runs the services in that state-rented space say? I'm sure you don't want to know who when tourists don't come. If a car breaks down that road, it does not lift much of the summer spirit when a few tons of renovations are made in its car after you go home. So, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the north, I would like to stress that now that the time for the establishment of this year's park is at hand, demand at the meetings of the Environment Committee, when expert consultations are taking place, that representatives of the local people be heard there and say in a clear Finnish language what their target state is, what the national park should be like now that it has been established there. At this point, everything is possible. Once the law has acquired its power of law and the President of the Republic has signed it, it will then be too late. And I claim that now, if there are items that are difficult to resolve in terms of hunting and fishing and other forms of multi-use, it is virtually impossible to change it afterwards. It takes one person's age, it may lose two people's age while waiting. I therefore encourage you, as a much-experienced person, that this should not be wronged once again. And I would like to see a little more healthy in terms of national parks and other nature conservation, because the world is not so black and white.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u123	Mr President! I am sure that these hunting and fishing issues are issues on which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will carefully address, and I can assure you that those local people and representatives of the municipalities will be consulted in committee. On that point, however, I think that the first thing to do, when it comes to establishing a new national park, is to ensure that hunting and fishing, insofar as they are permitted, are carried out in such a way that these nature conservation objectives are not jeopardised. But I would have returned to these international examples. In my previous speech, I mentioned that wolves have been returned to some national parks in the United States. This has significantly increased biodiversity in these national parks, since it has changed the behaviour of herbivores, such as deer, deer and the like, when they have stopped eating vegetation at the banks of rivers and streams, for example, because when there are predators in the national park, these herbivores want to be more involved in vegetation. And this has created a chain of events in which so many species, including species of birds, have since run-spawned and diversified. And another example: I have also visited one national park in Canada. There were only a few overnight stays to be booked in advance, as if the hotel room had been booked.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u124	Mr President! It's about that hunting and fishing. Now that I have compared other park laws, I think that this traditional hunting and fishing activity that we have has already been very well taken into account. The small comments I made in my first speech leave it to the committee to consider what is being done to them, whether to bring them more strongly, the messages that are coming from that region. In connection with those two of you. The park is guided through good roads through Peranga and Murtovaara. Only now are we working on and considering how to take care of a direct road connection from Highway 5 to Julmaan-Olkky, because it runs a private road and partly a very bad road. This is now on the joint agenda of the leaders of the city of Kuusamo and the municipality of Taivalkoski, which means that they are looking for the way in which it is done. Probably there will be a small renovation for next summer, but then just the next summer there will be a basic refurbishment so that all possible road connections can be made as good as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u125	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-07-ps-2.u126	Mr President! As an alternate member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry: Now there is indeed a change in animal welfare law in the referral debate, which is not very big as a change. Provisions required by EU legislation on certain obligations of the owner or keeper of farmed animals and the qualifications of the keepers of farmed animals would be included in the law. As a change, therefore, it is a small matter of importance, and therefore a word about the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act. In other words, this overall reform of the Animal Protection Act is now being carried out, and we as a party have also called for considerable ambition in this law. In the alternative budget 2017, the SDP has also proposed money for the post of Animal Protection Ombudsman. This animal welfare law, which is in force, dates back to 1996 and is very outdated. Research on animals and their behaviour is constantly increasing. The ethical debate on the treatment of animals is also important and is of particular interest to people. Scientific research into animal behaviour and species-specific needs is an important basis for the reform of this law. In the context of the reform of the Animal Protection Act, the impact on domestic agricultural production should also be assessed very carefully. I am in favour of an ambitious animal welfare law, but a trend in which strict regulation prevents or threatens domestic agricultural production is unacceptable. As far as these labelling products, which are also frequently spoken in this Chamber, are concerned, it is essential to increase the use of labelling on different production conditions. In this way, higher production conditions and animal welfare may also be the basis for consumer purchasing decisions. Mr President! There are different challenges in our society, but the feedback of our citizens is quite clear: they want better protection for animals, and we are responsible for this in this house.
