ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal introduces a new law on space activities. It is also proposed that Parliament should approve the convention on the registration of objects sent into space, the so-called registration agreement. From the left, who do you put in all of them? ] Finland has become a space state,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u7	Mr President! We do not often get to deal with space policy, and I hope that, in the future, as the domestic space sector grows and as science and technology evolves, this will be corrected. Thank you to the Minister for the introduction and for bringing this law here. It is now proposed that Parliament adopt the convention on the registration of objects sent into space and legislate on space activities. The Convention on the Registration of Objects Sent to Space obliges the State to register the space objects it has sent and to report them in a public register maintained by the UN Secretary-General. Space research and technology have taken great steps in recent years, not to mention astronomy. It is very possible and even likely that we will be able to witness, for example, an occupied journey to Mars in the near future. Space technology is an emerging industry in which Finland has good opportunities to participate in high-level competence. For example, innovations in the digitalization of industry can increasingly apply to the space industry and vice versa, such as remote management systems, communication technology and robotics. Space technology is also used by many services and industries from transport to the fight against climate change and cleantech. Finnish space companies are known and our products are also used. There are currently around 80 companies in Finland that design or manufacture, for example, satellite equipment, structures or software, or use satellite data in their operations. In turn, Finland’s first satellites are small satellites, which will probably find a growing number of uses in the future. The presentation of the law states that according to Tekes' recent assessment, space technology and applications allow a turnover of at least EUR 22 billion, more than 40000 jobs and EUR 13 billion exports to Finnish companies. This would be the fifth of our exports. With space technology, I see great opportunities in Finland. A high-skilled country should be involved in this game.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u8	Mr President! Minister Lintilä said that Finland has become a space state. It is very true that this argument is being made. It may be amusing if you are not familiar with technological developments and commercial opportunities, but, as those who are familiar with the matter know, the cost of space technology has fallen considerably since the time when it was considered merely to be a machination of the great powers. Today, any single state can broadcast satellites into space and carry out activities there. In this way, Finland can and could too, if we were to act decisively and unitedly in the face of the matter. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: Is there a space strategy for Finland? If we're not working on a space strategy yet, when would we get it under construction? Would it not be good if the common will status were clarified and thought about ways in which Finland too could be better and more productive in space and do even more business?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u9	Mr President! Indeed, it is good that this modern-day legislation is coming into force in Finland too, but I venture to suspect that such small countries, such as Finland, as our beloved country, will probably carefully record all sent satellites in the registers, that this spirit and letter of the law will be filled. But I dare to doubt that the great powers, for example, when sending a spy satellite to everyone, will tell that now the fire has been sent such a device into that space. But you might say that it is still a step in the right direction, that we know what is going on up there. And now I think there's so much stuff in space that they're talking about space debris, so it's gonna rain down sooner or later. I venture, as I said earlier, to doubt whether everything will be recorded, but this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u10	Honorable Speaker! So really, this year Finland has shot two nanosatellites. And what these nanosatellites actually are, they are satellites weighing about a kilo, two kilos. The Finland 100 nanosatellite is going to be shot in December, its weight is only one kilo and it is going to investigate electromagnetic phenomena. One of the most interesting nanosatellite projects currently underway is this Aalto Three, which shoots a nanosatellite with a weight of 2.6 kg, and it intends to explore how this 5G technology developed in Finland works. And now I would like to ask: when we have these few nanosatellite companies in Finland, how can we really keep them here in Finland or do we have the means to do so when, as I understand it, I have heard that they want to buy them out here in Finland? This sector is about to take off now, and I would very much like these fine companies to stay here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u11	Mr President! I think it is wonderful that during Sipilä's government, Finland is expanding its activities more and more, not only globally, but also outside the global world, into space, and I think it is excellent that Minister Lintilä is our space minister. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u13	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kopra, spoke very well about this matter in the first place. We have another Finnish Kopra, astronaut Timothy Kopra, a relative to that representative Kopra, and they seem to be linked by an interest in space. There is a wide range of expertise in Finland, for example Aalto University is a good example of this, and there are also – although perhaps we can talk about space, even when we are a little high – issues that are right here on earth, such as weather and climate change. And I do want to give full support to this presentation by the astronaut Kopra's cousin, Mr Copra, on the space strategy. We should take initiative in this type of matter, because we have this know-how, a high level of expertise when we take good care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u14	Mr President! I'll keep going when the last time I ran out. — I also think that the idea of a space strategy should be supported. Thank you, Mr Kopra, for bringing this up. I would also like to thank Mr Hosko, who raised important points of view that it is true that, for example, war technology and such other technologies are strongly linked to space technology and that it presents certain challenges in international politics and also in the very use of space — I am talking about space on the planet. It is certainly useful, therefore, that Finland as a peaceful, constructive country, which is being listened to, also pursues an international policy that does not militarise our immediate space. That too is a serious matter in the near future for all of us to think about. One of the key challenges at the moment is that the planet's near space is full of different kinds of debris, and attempts have been made to apply for different mechanisms to remove this debris from our near space, and several projects are under way. The issue is closely related to the functionality of our communications technology and many other issues, even security of supply in a certain way. And that is why I would also like Finnish companies to be able to play a small part in solving this challenge. I'm sure it would bring work and success stories.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u15	Mr President! We talked about security of supply, and I will continue security of supply on the safety side. Different GPS systems, positioning systems, are based on positioning satellites. I understand that Finland does not have its own locator satellites, which means that we are dependent on foreign operators and agreements. I ask Minister Lintilä: what kind of agreements do we have and how dependent are we on goodwill, what foreign journalists want to offer us? In various crisis situations, there may be a—off switch that cuts off access to different systems by the Finnish authorities, the Finnish Defence Forces, the Border Guard, the police and others. We have also had a debate here on the development of transport, traffic monitoring, different tax systems, which are very much based on the monitoring of kilometres and the operation of positioning satellites.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u16	Mr President! 99.87 percent of the solar system's mass is in the sun. So very small is the earth's mass and even smaller one kilo weight satellites. Well, despite the fact that this space debris has been raised here in some speeches, it may be a threat. When the atmosphere is filled with different kinds of debris, the rays of the sun do not reach the surface, but, on the other hand, the earth is currently facing a greenhouse effect. Is that a good thing in the future or a bad thing, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u17	Mr President! After all, the European Union has its own satellite positioning system Galileo, the first steps of which have been introduced in December 2016, and I would like to ask the Minister whether Finland has a role to play in this project, and if we could pilot possible European satellite positioning solutions and thus also secure a European system in the midst of world upheavals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u18	Mr President! I was thinking when this started to sound very masculine that even women representatives would take the floor. When I listened to these speeches, at first I felt that this agreement was very distant and what all this meant. Now I listened to good speeches about everything that this affects — the war industry and our security in terms of war technology and space debris, and even employment — and Mrs Vähämäki of the People's Party told me how she is with these jobs and how she has invested in this know-how and know-how in Finland. I'm sure this space strategy would be a rather welcome idea. All these aspects, such as the war industry, security and even employment, could be taken into account, even if it was first felt that employment could be linked to this, that we are not now working in space. But through these different satellites and knowledge there is. I could ask the Minister if there's a strategy like this coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u19	Now, Minister Lintilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u20	Mr President! I'm glad the delegates are dedicated to this. First of all, Mr Arhinmäki must be disappointed. There are no astronauts or cosmonauts coming from Finland, although of course someone could draw conclusions from Aalto 1 to person. But it's Aalto University, and we'll talk about something completely different if we start sending people. Quite a few questions were examined as to whether Finland has a strategy or is in the process of doing so. We have the Space Advisory Board, which has adopted the strategy from 2013 to 2020, and we have a good and effective relationship with the players in the sector. For example, Mr Vähämäki asked about how to keep them in the home country. We have relatively good connections with them. Together with Minister Berner, we are appointing a joint working group with Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to prepare a longer programme of this kind now next. As has been mentioned here in the speeches, what we are looking at from space has a very significant impact on us: weather, climate, communication. For example, Mr Kiuru asked what kind of agreements we currently have. They are commercial contracts, commercial operators, these satellites that are used. In fact, the major project that we are currently in the process of preparing is the New Space Economy programme which, together with Tekes, we are doing quite a lot. As Mrs Parviainen pointed out very well, there is a terrible potential here, both economically and in terms of jobs. In fact, I shall end by answering Mr Mölsä: yes, I am concerned about the greenhouse effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u21	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u22	Mr President! The Board of Directors decided at its strategy meeting on 27 March 2017 to merge Tekes and Finpro Oy’s activities into a Business Finland package in which a state-owned limited liability company called Innovation Finance Agency Business Finland and Business Finland would implement a centrally managed joint strategy. The new Business Finland package would consist of a state authority, i.e. a financial centre and a company carrying out customer activities, which will gather key national innovation, internationalisation, foreign investment and tourism promotion activities. Business Finland would be a national operator with a regional network in Finland and abroad in countries that are important to Finland in terms of export, investment, innovation and tourism promotion. A joint management model would be established for the financial centre and the company. The financial centre would be responsible for strategic management, corporate governance and public administration, i.e. public authorities. These include in particular financing decisions and other use of public authority in financial matters, e.g. payment and recovery decisions. The company would focus on customer service and promotion tasks and produce operational services related to research, development and innovation, internationalisation, export, foreign investment and tourism on the basis of a service agreement between the financial centre and the company. The company could develop cooperation and integrated services with other Team Finland actors, regions, growth service providers and private service providers, for example. During the start-up phase, the new operator would have approximately 600 employees, almost 40 branches abroad and in each province of Finland. The goal is for Business Finland to start operations on 1 January 2018. It is a rather unique and innovative organisation seeking a closer and more strategic cooperation network and cooperation between the Agency and a fully state-owned limited company. It is a functionally sensible solution, and it is precisely the need from the point of view of business customers. In this way, the services of innovation and internationalisation will be brought under the same roof and from one point to a single strategy. Functional integration supports the Government’s objectives of clarifying and simplifying the business service system, international innovation system, doubling exports of SMEs by 2020, and supporting regional growth services by a strong national operator supporting the growth and internationalisation of companies. The aim of the merger is also to create the conditions for the allocation of human resources in a focused way to operational work on the customer interface and foreign operations. The company would also be responsible for the supervision and coordination of foreign actors with the foreign representative network in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a more detailed manner. The main focus of the total person-years would be on the company. During the preparatory period, the need to make a clearer distinction between public tasks, i.e. financing decisions, and other tasks has been highlighted. A rough division of labour is that an agency-based financing centre has decisions for the exercise of public authority, such as significant financing decisions, while the company generally has other tasks, such as customer service and promotion tasks. However, some smaller financing decisions could be taken in the company. Transfers of persons required by the arrangement will be carried out within a flexible timeframe following the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u23	Mr President! I'd like to thank the Minister. Lintilaa about this presentation. — This important proposal therefore proposes, as we heard, to merge the current Tekes and Finpro into the State Innovation Finance Agency Business Finland and a wholly state-owned limited company Business Finland Oy. The reform is undoubtedly, as we heard from Minister Lintilä's explanatory statement, very well-founded in order to streamline and streamline the management system of support for the internationalising industry. But I would like to briefly touch on one aspect of the reform, which is not very much on the table in the presentation or in the explanatory statement. It is that, in the context of this certainly positive and supported reform, there would be a need for further analysis of the impact of the reform on national research funding, because, after all, business and exports are also based on a well-qualified and innovative research which has often been carried out in collaboration between research institutes and companies, and in this respect Tekes' funding has been very significant. This national research funding can be divided into three parts: research by universities and research institutes, including the Academy of Finland and foundations etc. funding and, secondly, joint research between research institutes and companies, where research that serves the product development of companies funded by Tekes has been very central, and thirdly, of course, research by companies themselves and funded by them themselves. And now, in connection with this reform, the question arose as to what would happen to this research that was currently funded by Mr Tekes. This has so far been a very important cooperation between research institutes and companies, and this research will not only help in product development but also, for example, provide an important basis for export markets: this has been seen in the case of many of our popular and highly successful export products, and space research, which has just been discussed, is also linked to this subject. When I read this bill, its explanatory statement does not deal very much with this aspect, rather sparsely. Of course, according to the draft law, many of the tasks of the financial centre do mention 'promoting research, development and innovation', but the explanatory statement does not make much sense of what will happen to the research work funded so far by Tekes, and I would like to see further clarification on this matter, namely whether there will be a gap in important research funding here, which will be the contribution of research funding to the budget of this new entity and, above all, how this new picture manages and manages this aspect, what is the role of the Innovation Finance Agency and what is the role of the limited company. And, indeed, when joint research between research institutes and industry is an important part of our national research architecture, the clarification of these issues should be an important part of the committee's deliberations on the draft law, and in this respect I would of course like the Committee on Culture to address this issue and to be able to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u24	Mr President! This is an excellent presentation because the next customer will be served by one organization instead of two. It is clear that, at present, it has not been possible for Tekes and Finpro to operate as separate organisations. This is the purpose, as the Minister said well, of raising the quality of services and providing more efficient services. But what worries me and what I hope the government will pay attention to now in the creation of this Business Finland is, of course, that many international studies estimate that we have a much weaker contribution to promoting Finnish exports and the organisational capacity we have. Of course, this reorganisation is aimed specifically at strengthening this aspect, but I hope that the government will also consider further measures to promote the export of Finnish companies in particular. Of course, this emphasis on the role of ambassadors through this Business Finland is an excellent thing. In that sense, the government has worked well that our diplomatic network has not been cut down. When I have visited that world, most recently in Mozambique, I have been very impressed with the work that our ambassadors are doing. For example, our ambassador in Mozambique, Laura Torvis, a more expert Africa expert, I have not yet met in this work. However, I would like to ask what concerns I have had as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: However, Tekes has a strong brand already in Finland and around the world, and its brand's familiarity has been improved in recent years, but in a way we have to start building the brand again from the beginning. How does the minister respond to this, how is it thought of promoting this brand, this new Business Finland, both in Finland and abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u25	Mr President! The combination of Tekes and Finpro into Business Finland is certainly a sensible proposal. It is good to create paths for companies from product development to internationalisation. In addition, the combination of two organisations can, at best, generate synergies — and in the worst case, of course, there can be a lot of confusion, but hopefully it will be avoided. Mr President! This proposal, which is in itself to be welcomed, does not address the current shortcomings in the promotion of exports, particularly in the target market. At the moment, there are very few people in Finpro in that world where they are needed. The resources of the delegations are already scarce, and there is often no time for practical work on export promotion, along with other work and diplomatic work. In many other Finnish competitor countries, the resources for promoting exports, especially in the target countries, are considerably higher than Finland. So let us not expect miracles of this renewal and unification, for obviously there is no increase in people and resources. We would need their hands on export promotion to help companies. Finpro gave up the company’s practical consulting services in 2014, and many companies felt that export promotion services have deteriorated as the personnel at Finpro have decreased and practical assistance to companies can no longer be provided in the same way, and many business operators and entrepreneurs have regretted this. Currently Finpro is able to provide lists of various private consultants. This lack will not be replaced by this proposal, but I hope that in the construction of this Business Finland, we will look beyond these export promotion practices and think about what would be the best way to really encourage and help Finnish SMEs to promote exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u26	Mr President! In Finland, companies have the skills and desire to succeed in the world. It is clear, however, that a much better grip from the state is needed. That is why I welcome this organisational reform. Finland should really invest more in foreign trade in the future if we want to rise from this point of view. However, we must admit that there are many weaknesses in our export promotion network. It is weaker than in the control countries, as mentioned by the previous speakers. Finland's trade balance has been negative for a long time: in 2016 approximately 3 billion in the cold. This is a vital issue for the future in Finland. As far as exports are concerned, I myself have felt that it is necessary to involve private operators, such as chambers of commerce or private export consultants, in such a way as to make connections. There is still a clear weakness in the way in which these different actors work together. For example, if there are lines from abroad that Finnish companies would need, i.e. hints about possible trades, they do not quite pass, and the information on all foreign tenders is the same. It is quite rigid how it gets to the knowledge of Finnish companies. I have seen this website, which is what it is now, and I see that there are quite detailed, concrete, small things that absolutely need to be improved, such as the way in which tenders are advertised. As good as this is, however, that organisational reform is being carried out, I would point out that organisational reform alone is not enough, but we need a whole new kind of investment in export promotion and aid that is being given to Finnish companies on behalf of the state. One thing about this is, for example, the increase in staff, especially in strategically important export areas, such as Asia. I would therefore like to ask the ministers present how, in addition to organisational reform, to take better account of the current weaknesses and shortcomings, such as the lack of contact between private actors with the state apparatus, the flexibility and aggravation of this machinery. I would also like to ask whether the government is prepared to invest more in promoting Finland's exports in financial terms, i.e. also in the staff of the target countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u27	Let us take this opportunity to take the floor of the ministers. First Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u28	Mr President! First of all, the important reform that we are here for. In fact, I came directly from the region of Lahti, where we went through free trade agreements with local companies in Japan and Canada. For example, I visited Peikko Oy, a strongly growing industrial company, and they also told me how important, for example, it has been in Romania and Russia this autumn to help embassies get their operations open in these countries. I would say that we have a lot of good examples in which both Finpro staff and embassy staff are putting their hands in the clay for the advancement of Finnish expertise, but we need to get these good examples mainstreamed, our whole machinery, and that is very much what the outside network is all about. As far as the link between Finpro and Tekes is concerned, I think that the point is that no product development project — to which this representative In particular, Mr Puska made a distinguished reference — not to the fact that the innovation works in the Finnish laboratory, but to the fact that it has been sold to international customers. So this aspect of Finpro's export and internationalisation must also be part of traditional Tekes DNA, and these go hand in hand. I believe that, under the leadership of Minister Lintilä, very good work is now being done at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. This law creates a framework for it. With regard to the foreign network, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plays a leading role in the fact that our human resources are clearly greater there than Finpro's or Tekes's, and in this respect this bill, combined with the amendments to the Foreign Affairs Administration Regulation, is also formalising the Heads of Missions as country leaders for the promotion of exports and internationalisation. In other words, they are also reported to the future Business Finland country teams, and on the other hand they are also obliged to report to Ruoholahteen Business Finland, not just to Katajanoka at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the same way, joint working spaces will be added between Business Finland and the diplomatic missions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a common annual list of objectives will be created, to which we will now also commit some EUR 1 million of the new result-based export promotion money to these teams in order to make them more flexible to set performance targets and to support their successful practices. I would also say that this is the essential thing about doing things together and creating a sense of feeling. There have been times when the Katajanokka Canal has been very deep mentally between the representations and then between the organisations of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. I have now been very pleased with the way in which, with Minister Lintilä, there has been a dramatic change of spirit, particularly between the organisations under our control, over the past six months. Now let's all work together, and I think we can do a lot more. The issue of branding, raised by Mrs Elo, is a serious issue which deserves careful consideration now: how to make this clear to entrepreneurs. When you talk to companies, you talk primarily as Business Finland, but you still act as Team Finland in cultural contexts and others. And now we're going to work on this. This private link, to which Mr Tavio referred in particular, is also very important, and in this respect, our innovation and internationalisation vouchers, which have been launched in the last year, are precisely an opportunity for companies to use a customer voucher, as it were, when they need the help of a private consultant, and it is important that Finpro, together with the embassies, should be able to use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u29	Minister Lintilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u30	Mr President! Congressman Puska was concerned about research funding. We have played the role of research funding, and the same mission description will remain in Business Finland. We will have 1.8 billion in research funding for next year, plus 30 million, which will be added to next year, if Parliament approves the budget in its great wisdom. So whatever this mission description is going to be there, but there are no boundaries inside. In other words, just as Mr Mykkänen said, the biggest benefit here is the company, the small and medium-sized enterprise, that comes through that door with its idea. It will be able to get funding from the same place from that whole idea to the finished export product and the start of exports. Mr Elon's question of branding is of course a very important issue, and it is also important if you consider that Business Finland has investments, there are innovations, exports, tourism, all are important sectors. So I believe myself that the branding of the entire Team Finland is the one that is most important, and it stands out as a business Finland as a whole. Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Tavio both drew attention to the very important issue of the scarcity of resources that we currently have out there. This solution actually also enables us to allocate resources in the future, how resources will be allocated. I'm sure that's where the priorities come in. The government aims to double the exports of SMEs by 2020 — very ambitious, but we must remember that we have this year's export growth plus 15%. The growth in September alone was plus 8 per cent. And what I am very pleased about is that this is a very large-scale export. There's no cruiser spikes. Looks like our next cruiser's handing over is not until next June. But it is very wide-ranging at the moment, and clearly since the summer of last year we have begun to catch up with export trades. For that, of course, a big thank you to the competitiveness pact makers who did a big service to Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u31	Mr President! It is excellent that these Tekes and Finpro are brought under the same law and under the same operating environment. Of course, they have been acting in one direction until now, but now this legislation clarifies this situation. Just as Minister Lintilä said in his excellent speech, so exports are and have been achieved with many other decisions, but what is important now, Mr President, is that this Finnish production of small and medium-sized industries is sold to the world much more efficiently than it is to date. After all, Finland is a well-known country for having a very good level of education, there is education for almost any departure, and we can spend money on various innovations, but once the top product has been produced, the sales are often poked and the guys push by at that point, which means that we have every opportunity on this side to achieve ever better results. I would have asked the ministers present how this is going to be done, given that exports to the Far East in particular often mean that there is a government representation there, just as Prime Minister Sipilä, just like Minister Lintilä and Minister Mykkänen, have been there on export promotion trips. How do you experience the environment of this new law? Is this the kind of tool of dreams you've been waiting for for years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u32	Mr President! In fact, thank you to both ministers for a good job and a good presentation. The SDP is satisfied, mainly, with this reform
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u35	Mr President! Many speakers have already praised this new combination, and that is good, but we also know that there have been, and will continue to be, minor growth pains, and that is part of this reform. But the reason why I asked for this intervention: How, then, are we going to secure those places left empty by the export agents? There goes the kind of expertise that companies need right now. A year ago there was a Committee on Foreign Affairs visiting New York, and there we met an export agent who told us straight away that the problem now is that more than 150 people, with their good knowledge and knowledge, left. How do you patch it up because they had an infinite amount of expertise in that country? This is the question that is now asking the people who need to export expertise and know-how. The last comment is that we would have even more exports and growth if we had venture capital in order for companies in Finland. It's got quite a bunch of tights in it for the banks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u36	Mr President! This strategic and functional integration of Tekes and Finpro Oy's operations into Business Finland is definitely a good thing. Then, like Mrs Anttila, I am a little concerned that we have also had some effective concepts, that how these have now been taken into account with this reform. I am referring, among other things, to the Ostrobothnia, where we have had an active cooperative like Viexpo since the 1970s. It seems that, despite the fact that we know that we have an excellent employment situation in Ostrobothnia, exports are still at stake. But we also need such players as Viexpo, who would be helping companies to enter the international market, and I would therefore ask the Minister: what do you think of the longer-term perspective of how the funding of Viexpo will be organised?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u37	Mr President! This presentation is really important and really concrete help for entrepreneurs and businesses all over Finland. It really does not matter what size or location the company is, but what it is doing and how it is going to grow. And when it is known that Finland lives from exports and two thirds of Finland's exports are made outside Uusimaa in Finland, the stone legs of Finland's growth are really that we help companies in the whole country. Now that these state services are now available equally to all companies around Finland, I would have asked the ministers how they are going to secure this growth service network and the continuation of these contact points — Team Finland, for example — and that they are in the provinces and that these national services are also available to everyone, knowing that Finpro and Tekes do not have regular staff in all regions, but that these services would still be available through these contacts and contacts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u38	Now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u39	Mr President! Professor Matti Pohjola said that since the 1860s, two thirds of Finland's well-being has come from ideas and one third from education. The share of capitals in Finnish success and rising living standards has been small. It is therefore quite clear that growth based on innovation will continue to be the only way in Finland. The saddest thing is that it is innovation and innovation support that have been associated, both with the previous government but perhaps even more so, particularly with this government, that considerable, considerable damage has been done. First of all, Finpro’s entire system, that consultancy company, was scrapped, sold forward and then found bankrupt. And at the same time, the strategic centres of excellence built with great care during the Vanhanen government were also decided to stop at the beginning of this government, and it burned only one billion euros. The goals themselves have not changed anything. We want companies, large and small, to be involved. The start-ups, on the other hand, tighten large companies and international companies help growth companies, and at the same time they are linked to applied research, product development, but these methods have been put in a scrap heap over and over again. I hope that the next government will not be the kind of government that, in its own opinion, must come up with everything from the beginning once again. But we still have to hope, or perhaps that is why we must hope that this Business Finland project will succeed. But it starts with a challenging situation. As Professor Puska said earlier — or Mr Puska in this Chamber — it must be borne in mind that R & D funding must also be found for universities and research organisations. This must not be the only way to finance Finnish growth. Of course, that productisation and immediate market position will not be what is being sought, but a general high-level scientific research. It must not be forgotten. But as these founding organisations have stated here, Business Finland will start in the process of calculating resources. In the last ten years, 100 man-years of employment have been deducted, approximately EUR 100 million from funding, i.e. more than one government. It may be that customers are experiencing a deterioration in the service, when this large fanfare consortium is actually a kiosk operating with much smaller resources. Here's one challenge we need to be able to answer. In this, of course, the will of the Supreme Government is extremely important. It's been good to hear there's one. The recent review of the Finnish innovation system by the OECD in 2017 may have been the main flaw in the fact that the highest political decision-making body has no commitment and will to see how this innovation funding is progressing, and I have just given some examples of this. One thing that is less discussed and which should be discussed in this context is certainly how to ensure that R & D and development activities that are becoming increasingly regionalised and regionalised are genuinely effective. That is what we have discussed in the Section for Employment and the Economy of the Committee on Finance. At the end of the day, 346 million EU co-financed subsidies will be distributed, i.e. more than this official funding for Tekes and, at least now, when comparing the effectiveness of the Structural Funds in different regions, the result will be very mixed. In this regard, Minister Lintilä's own province of Central Ostrobothnia gives a little warning example of the future when the Central Ostrobothnian Federation has had to return payments. One more thing that we must pay attention to is, of course, this governance structure. This is quite different and bizarre when we have a limited company and an agency married together. This poses challenges for them to find a course of action that works for both of us and for everyone. Mr President! If you want this challenge to be summed up in one question, it is that a limited liability company that lets itself be controlled by the agency is not a limited company, but, on the other hand, an agency that cannot direct a limited liability company is not a genuine administrative agency. So there are challenges here, but now that we use the word challenge as a synonym of the problem, let us say that we face these challenges in a good spirit and in cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u40	Mr President! At the beginning of 18, Tekes and Finpro will be merged into Business Finland and thus, under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, Finland will receive an already internationalised unit focusing on the development of skills and exports with funding of approximately EUR 600 million from the state. I think that this will give us a long time, I would say, to hope for businesses, Finnish SMEs, why not also for larger companies, and for Finnish work. About 600 experts will work in this future unit, but if compared with rival countries, it is unfortunately small. In other words, we will have a challenge in the future that if we want to finance this activity, which we need in Finland under export control because of the growing need for services in the 20th century, then we will have to give some thought to this possibility of increasing exports in such a way that we will invest more in the future. Business Finland's task is to promote the internationalisation of Finnish business, especially as regards product development and exports. This is quite necessary because in the last 15 years Finland has lost about half of our previous share of world trade that it was. It was around 0.6% in the early 2000s and is currently around 0.3%. In other words, international trade is still being conducted, but Finland's trade has decreased by half. In addition to the fact that, over the last decade, Finland has fallen behind the rest of the Nordic region by about 20% of its GDP and that is precisely because, if we look at the statistics, we have a frozen export, and it may be due to the fact that in the past we have built up exports on large companies and at the moment we are hoping that small businesses will be saved, but we have not yet had the means to do so. That is why I consider this to be a good thing, and we must continue to invest in it. We have significantly fewer small SMEs that want to grow compared to, for example, Sweden, Norway and Germany and all the others, and that too must be able to be corrected. In this Chamber we should see precisely this difference that if we want to grow for Finland, that is the first thing. This Business Finland will also challenge the provinces. At the other end, small and medium-sized enterprises run by the provinces and are in contact with Business Finland. That is why all regions should have the opportunity to act in this area, and it is likely to be a challenge. At least I do not yet know how this will be resolved. For example, Tekes has so far acted in such a way that it has had a network of experts throughout Finland and if there is a desire for Tekes' expertise or something about product development, then the expert will be directed from Kouvola to Sotkamo. In the future, each province should have its own experts in every area, and this, of course, is not possible in Finland. This must somehow be resolved in the future, so that it works in cooperation with exports. In other words, it should be specified here that we are in a position to make an organisation in the legislation that will then work together in the whole of Finland. Well, this is where Team Finland's network must also help companies in the destination country and in the destination country specifically be able to overcome the barriers to trade that are their own in each country. That is why, at the moment, at least in my own experience, all countries must first of all resolve how to get those obstacles out of it. And when there has actually been nothing more than export agents who, I must say, have perhaps been in a few other jobs lately, we do have a challenge to get them back. We have as such a small open people, who do not have large own capitals available, the only chance of growth is in combining knowledge and exports and thus growing. In my opinion, we still have a good chance of success. In my opinion, we have a shampoo here, if we understand and invest wisely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u41	Mr President! I very much welcome this proposal to combine Tekes and Finpro. As a service user in export companies, I have encountered both Tekes and Finpro many times. It has sometimes been rather unclear what services both offer and how they differ. In that sense, it is good that they are now being merged, but of course it is still necessary to clarify a little more what the role of this innovation centre is, on the one hand, and the limited liability company, on the other. However, it is good that we are now getting closer to other Nordic countries. As Mr Suutari said earlier, the vast majority of our exports have so far been exports by large companies and international trade. What is more, it is also a challenge for business-to-business businesses, which is usually the first to suffer from a recession or even a recession on a global scale. In that sense, we are faced with the challenge of making our export structure more diverse, that there will be more services and consumer products. Minister Lintilä, you mentioned that our objective is to double the exports of SMEs by 2020. I believe that this is a very good objective, but we should remember that making international companies is not just about selling and marketing, but we should also get business expertise to Business Finland, because quite often SMEs think that it would be enough for the world to be able to manage the Finnish market at regional level, but it requires a change in the whole way of thinking in that company, and it is not enough to do that. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the resources which this future organisation has here. Of course, they must be in the most targeted countries, but I would also stress that we hope that Business Finland will have a chance in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u42	Mr President! As has been heard many times in this debate, the government proposal has indeed been supported and expected. When two players are merged, Finpro and Tekes, the combination of two mutually supportive and overlapping bodies also provides a good starting point for the change in operating practices. But, as has also been said on many occasions in this Chamber, unification alone does not guarantee that change will take place in the right direction. Finland lives from exports. We are such a small nation that we need to move in the same direction in order to move forward, and so common goals are needed. At this stage, I would like to thank Minister Lintilä and Minister Mykkänen for this government proposal. However, we know that the common objectives and the kind of Finland umbrella we need, both here and internationally, are common objectives. I would now like to ask Minister Lintilä how, with this government's proposal, we can harness both the domestic and, on the one hand, our embassy, on the other, better to support a certain kind of Finland umbrella activity, looking through Finnish glasses. However, it is a matter of systematic and consistent promotion of knowledge, of export and commercial marketing competence, but also of the exchange of information that we guarantee that the good activities we have here in Finland will also be carried abroad, that it will not happen as it has happened at some point, that only abroad will we discover what is known in Finland. Let's finish with a few words about BusinessOulu. In a large merger of five municipalities between 5 and 6 years ago, eight business operators were merged in Oulu. When Oulu first dived in the ict business, you can only say that it was lucky that we
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u43	Mr President! The objective of combining Tekes and Finpro into a clearer Business Finland package seems justified and supported. It is also justified to clarify and simplify the national business service system in general, to promote the internationalisation of our innovations and to support growth services. Above all, I am pleased that this has also taken account of the increase in exports of SMEs in the coming years. However, as noted in previous speeches, according to international comparisons, the resources of innovation activity in Finland are below the OECD average, and according to preliminary estimates, the resources of internationalisation in Finland are below the level of the competitor countries. We should therefore be very careful to see whether these measures, which we are doing now, are sufficient to ensure that we continue to have sufficient international business. Hopefully this new model will meet this challenge. Business Finland should also become a partner for regional economic services. To some extent, I am concerned that, for example, in growth-urban regions, industrial policy threatens to escape quite far away when it escapes to the provincial level. Many regional economic services are already perceived as remote in some municipalities. Fortunately, there are good examples. Cooperation is needed, and supra-municipality is good for avoiding partial optimization and overlaps and that municipalities do not compete unnecessarily with each other. However, in order to promote the vitality of cities and urban areas, I believe that there should continue to be sufficient room for manoeuvre, be it a provincial model or not. One way or another, this is worth paying attention to. If this is to be combined with a national level, I hope that it will then be a genuinely debateable and interactive partnership between these levels. In Finland, we have also had such a history that the state administration will come and crush things and then move on to the next place. I hope and trust that this model will now be developed in a modern way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u44	Mr President! It is indeed a pleasure to discuss a proposal which is warmly supported from one side of the Chamber to another, because it is precisely here that we are bringing more resources for services to support business growth and exports. It is also good to clarify and correct the wrong impression that large cities, for example, are taking some growth or business services away. This is not the case, but the state is increasing services to companies in the region. There may be a little misconception about this. But then on this Business Finland package: it is really very important that these services are then provided throughout the country in the future, and when you know these resources, which has been talked about a lot — that Finpro and Finpro have had a great deal of talk about. There are no people in all the regions who are present and who are doing the practical work with companies — those services must continue to be provided nationally, and that is understandable. But in how this coordination takes place in this particular Business Finland package, it is important that companies really have the door from which to enter and get those services, the door to these various activities, especially those funded by the state, that support the growth and export of companies. From the point of view of the effectiveness of this business and innovation policy and regional customer service, I would still ask the ministers how the presence of this Business Finland entity will be ensured in all future regions. Should this be ensured, for example, on a regulatory basis, or how will it be ensured that entrepreneurs will continue to receive these services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u45	Mr President! Surely now I have to begin by saying my own satisfaction that the government will bring such a presentation, and let us wish it good luck in the future and especially energy for those who are behind the bill and want to take this all the way to the finish line. This is exactly the kind of instrument Finland needs. In my opinion, good speeches have been made here. Mr Suutari particularly pointed out the need for something new and that we must focus on something specific and essential. The debate has been very export-driven. Of course, it is important that we have a channel open to export products, but it is good to note that there must be something to export before the company is given an export voucher. In my view, at the moment we are lacking in this country an instrument that will enable it to expand its micro- and small-scale enterprises, to acquire industrial equipment and to invest in it. We have good tools and, through Tekes, we are able to produce good innovations, but then we have no money for those companies that would be able to make innovations into industrial products. According to the Bank of Finland’s financial statement, which was directed at businesses, it is still considered particularly critical that micro and small enterprises have difficulty in accessing finance. When this growth engine fund was brought up, something just like that would be needed for this home to have the opportunity to take that idea forward. Now there would be a single channel, while it is administratively possible for this Business Finland to be the kind of entity that will make its decision. Personally, I have sometimes thought that once that product has been completed with Tekes funding, the final report by Tekes should be such that if there is a fund somewhere, it will accept that the reports have already been made, which, for example, was it now specifically directed towards US exports, that three-stage analysis of the company's capabilities and so on. But when we still have to have that funding, where do we take that money? The government is determined not to get into debt or take out a loan to create such a big fund. So I would like to ask the ministers: would we be able to start thinking when the wealth of households in banks currently amounts to about EUR 80 billion, which are there at zero interest rates, so that we can find a channel to enable Finns to participate in a nation's growth fund, which would operate with a state guarantee so that a single household could invest in such a nation's growth fund, those projects which are specifically domestic businesses and are in need of growth money, for example, with a 3% return? I believe that quite a few households could get excited if it were possible with a state guarantee. In any case, we have money on the domestic market, and the State has access to, for example, the capital of Senate real estate, against which borrowing money would not be a sovereign debt. But let us combine a fund that would also take risks and let us hope that we can get funding in order for these growth companies, which are able to grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u46	Mr President! Mrs Myllykoski gave a good speech on this issue of money and the bottlenecks to growth, and I am sure we will hear more on this subject at the Citizens' Info at the 5 p.m. meeting held by Mrs Myllykoski. But to the point. Business Finland is an excellent thing. This brings together Tekes and Finpro's activities and adds more dynamics to our exports and export-driven activities. About EUR 600 million a year is available for this, and I hope that we will get a good kick out of it. Quite a few new Finnish companies are born global, so to speak, in the immediate international step, from one man's company to the SME sector and bigger companies, and they also need strong international support for these first steps, whether it is a craftsman in Pohjolalahti or an IT company in Helsinki. About how we get the investments to Finland: We also have the experience of Slush that we do have access to these global donors. They'd be happy to buy the companies here and then maybe take the ideas somewhere else. How we can make them stay and grow here is probably a common challenge. The fact that a Team Finland person has been assigned to every province before the beginning of this year is also a great thing, and I hope that cooperation with Business Finland will also be excellent. In other words, small local entrepreneurs will also be able to speed up their exports with the larger ones. I hope that this cooperation will help both the regions and the municipalities and the business community to get from there to the grass-roots level to bring exports forward. In this respect, I see that this is more for us in the provinces. There was a conversation here about taking something away from the big cities. On the contrary, we are strengthening regional exports and export-drivenness. One of my concerns here is the promotion of tourism. MEKhan was discontinued in 2015 and then operations moved to Finpro. I don't know if they even got off to a good start, it felt a little like that. So how much is now invested in the development of Finnish tourism in real life, and is Nordic cooperation also involved? This is one of our top export industries at the moment, and I would like an answer to what is at stake. There are 24 people in the staff now. Is that enough, and in what way can we further strengthen the marketing of tourism? Indeed, for example, it would be good to have this Nordic perspective in addition. It was mentioned here that the network of ambassadors is, of course, supportive and helpful. Although I have familiarised myself with several ambassadors during the travels of various parliamentary committees. They will be there for four years, and their interest in different activities is quite different and the reception has been very different. So you can say that the network of ambassadors is an addition to this, but there is little point in counting on it. Mr President! With these words. A very good project, and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u47	Mr President! I hope that this organisational change will be so successful in practice as it has been acclaimed in many of these speeches. There are sad examples in Finland that the company has received public funding for innovation, but not necessarily to commercialise its innovation. Many fine Finnish innovations have been developed with public funding, but at a time when decisive steps are being taken to actually become revenue and export and, so to speak, could be cashed out, it has been sold to some big foreign company. I hope that this problem will be improved. But most of all I have followed the export of Finnish environmental technology, cleantech. Many Finnish companies manufacture very good environmental technology, clean-up and energy-saving technology, but many large foreign customers, especially in Asia, want whole installations to turnkey. For example, they do not have the ability to search for all the taps and components of a water treatment plant or sewage treatment plant separately on the world market. And here some people I know who are dealing with environmental technology and exports have considered it a problem that Finns do not have enough good connections with large international plant suppliers to spread these good Finnish technological innovations more widely. I hope that this problem, too, will now be improved through this organisational reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u48	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here about the unification and regionalisation of Tekes and Finpro. I would also like to raise my concern about not counting too much on the embassies network, or, at least, there must be an important form of opinion, because there are many players. There are already very growth and export-oriented people and then there is something that may even see business as a bad thing, and, in fact, in future recruits, we should think that we are going in the same direction, such as Denmark and many other countries, for example, that the whole of the recruitment process is based on the promotion of growth in their own country. I think it is very good that these services come closer to the customer. A practical example of the Metko fair, which is the largest event in the forest sector at national level — ranging from different biofibers up to Ponssee, for example, is that when we asked back a few years how they recognized Team Finland's activities and how much they have benefited, the majority of the actors there had not been contacted at all and thought that their business might not be so sexy, even though there could be tens of millions of exports and up to New Zealand and different continents. In my opinion, this regionalisation now contributes to the fact that, since these innovations are being carried out in all sectors and in every type of enterprise, it may be easier to catch up with them. Finally, the issue that I would like to raise in this debate is food exports. We've done a pretty good job on this one, haven't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u49	Mr President! There has been a very good debate in this Chamber on a matter of national importance, and I would also have thanked the ministers for their answers. My speech was by no means a criticism. This is a very important issue, a good presentation. I wanted to draw attention to the importance of the study. When it was said that this is about doing things together, it is in fact a matter of companies and research institutes making a very strong basis for the best possible conditions and good products also for exports. I have seen in the world the good export work of such researched products, including those relating to food products mentioned by Mr Kalmar. It is good that Minister Lintilä said there is money. The question is, how is this going to happen? It must be borne in mind that sales and marketing of products alone are not the answer, of course it is necessary, but the most important thing is, of course, that the product is a good, preferably innovative product with good research documentation. In other words, it would really like this new structure, the whole of which would be remembered for research, and that this aspect would also be assessed and considered in the committee's deliberations, and the practical procedures which were not clearly reflected in the proposal: what is the role of this financial centre, the role of the limited liability company, and how this work will be carried out in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u50	Mr President! In his own speech, he did not ask the Minister a question. When this over-viesca Viexpo was mentioned, I myself remember how in the '90s and early 2000s Viexpo organized companies such as Cebit fairs in Hanover, North Ostrobothnia. There were dozens of them, and that was when exports were made from those companies and they were still operating there. But then this funding for exports and trade fairs decreased from 20 million to zero between here and there. Indeed, the Christmas money was given just over a million here and there a few years ago. Now I would have asked the Minister: is there more coming in this regard? And then the second question: In the '90s, this export effort was still in the case of small companies that large companies received funding from Tekes and that project was then shared. There were small companies and large companies involved. Then, when the Finnish climate changed so that it was no longer accepted that large companies would receive any kind of financing — or receive something, but they will not receive any more. I made funding on the terms I used to — that common object, as it were, clotted by everyone and this palette broke down. Has it been thought that it would be acceptable for large companies, which finance smaller companies, to continue to receive product development aid as far as research is concerned?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u51	Mr President! It is a great thing that we now have a matter in the Chamber that receives very broad support from the government, but also from the opposition. We see that this solution, combining Finpro and Tekes into Business Finland, is a good thing, and it will make the operation more efficient, de-bureaucratic and also mobilise resources to promote exports. I would also like to highlight this concept of Team Finland, which also includes Finnvera with its very important role. For example, Finnvera’s role in shipping is vital. You could say that if we didn’t have this Finnvera tool, many of those shops — you could say all — would not be implemented. In other words, when it comes to exports, Finnvera cannot under any circumstances be forgotten. And it is also good that these operators are physically operating in Ruoholahti in the same entirety, in the same office unit. Here Mr Pirttilahti and Mr Kalmari raised the role of the embassy, and it must also be said that there is certainly room for improvement. Part of it is probably because there are quite short periods of what ambassadors are. However, in many countries the role of the embassy as the door-opener is important in principle, and I believe that it has gone for the better: the ambassadors must have in the spinal cord the fact that they are also the promoters of Finnish production and industrial exports in the contacts that are formed in the mission, and also the network of operators. In other words, I think that we are heading in a good direction, but the constant focus here must be to achieve even better results. But a good bill, and a very good thing that such strong support comes from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u52	Mr President! I have just spoken about Nordic cooperation, and I will actually continue on the same subject, even though Mr Mykkänen has already left. So now that the government has made choices that you can agree with or disagree with — I am talking about the bioeconomy — I am surprised at least to see that, if you look at the countries where the forest industry is naturally strong, they are actually quite the same countries if you look at where hockey is played. And the last time I went to Ottawa, Canada, I wondered how thinly represented we have there at the embassy, how few people we have there in a country that practically screams about the innovations of the bioeconomy, our core knowledge of forestry. So I ask you, Minister: do you have the idea of how these northern countries, Canada, Sweden and the USA — why not Russia, China, Japan — will be reflected in the government’s bioeconomy strategy? The second question relates to innovation. There has been a great deal of talk here about how Finnish innovations, copyrights remain Finnish, why they are sold too early abroad and how we can develop Finnish expertise, that core, and multiply it to the world, even now in this forest industry that I was talking about. I believe that we are still a long way behind, for example, the Swedes, who are able to build it on the copyright of human capital, leverage new funding and cooperate. Do you, Minister, have any new idea for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u53	Mr President! There is no doubt that progress has been made in networking when it comes to large markets, such as China. There have been a lot of actors there for years. However, sometimes a few years ago, even though Team Finland has been talked about and tried to do so, the networking between Finns was not close enough. It was even the idea that when many actors, for example in China or in some large places, are also using the support elements of our taxpayers, such a networking obligation, the condition of networking, should be a condition for all public funding when it comes to public funding in one form or another. So that power comes from acting together and acting together, and that should be encouraged all the time. I hope that the Minister will be able to comment on this further.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u54	Mr President! Inspired by that speech by Mr Skinner — when he told me about his trip to Canada — I was reminded of the fact that a year and a half ago we were in that meeting with the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities to get to know Kenya, I have certainly talked about this many times, and I would like to ask the Minister: has there been any news or information about African countries? In Kenya, among other things, the economy is growing, and there I talked to an embassy employee — he was a local resident — just like this one thing, that there is a lot of garbage on the streets, and I told him that in Finland these are burned and these are then made into energy, and he was absolutely amazed: "This way when you get this, we too would solve energy problems very far." Similarly, I watched a program that had gone to Somalia to export solar panels. We have so much of this expertise, and we feel that they are taken for granted. How can we dare companies to leave because there are corruption problems, I know that, but there are also entrepreneurs and Nordic entrepreneurs who have dared to go there? How do our entrepreneurs get to network, get that experience from others? There were also two Finnish women, whose baskets, called Mifuko baskets, were sold all over Europe, and then they had dared to go there again. Many times is the fear and ignorance and the very fact that you contact, and "oh, this seems too complicated". Of course, we have little of this quality of character that we are not very good at marketing ourselves. Often when someone says, "You have a nice new shirt," then you always just say, "Oh, this is just like old." That where would we get the help and support to have the courage to leave? I think that these are always valuable speeches, so that we all remember that what we feel is self-evident will also be a huge help on the ground for this climate change and nature conservation and many more. If the minister could give us any information on the news.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u55	Now, Minister Lintilä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u56	Mr President! That's a pretty good Latin question. I'll try to go over most of what's coming. Quite a few were actually dealing with the resource situation and the situation of the delegations. Yes, this situation has been very carefully considered here during the preparatory work. We know that we have very different types of ambassadors, the ambassador is also human. It will happen in such a way that ambassadors will be country leaders in each country, but they will be under the guidance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in relation to Business Finland. Otherwise, they are under the administrative authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but guidance and guidance come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Of course, this is the objective when, for example, we have situations where the embassy and Finpro live their lives well in those countries of destination, that this would result in these services being provided there also under the same roof and combined with those resources. A nation that is so small cannot afford to share those powers in those countries where Finpro is likely to have one sent and the embassy has two people. I think we should get them to work, just the three of them. Congressman Skinner asked a good question: Where are we gonna find those winners for this race that is? This is, of course, something that companies should agree with. It's not like the companies in the bay are competing with the companies in Tampere. A company in Lahti competes with a shanghai company, or with a company in Ottawa. The company must be globally competitive and so hard in its own area of expertise that it manages globally. You can't take it anymore because you're just a champion in your own territory. There are really no medals in this sport for the district championships. How do we get Tekes' funding? We have an increase of 30 million in additional growth engines, which is very important in this direction. That would be, if everything were to go according to the proposal, an additional purpose would be to confirm it. Then a few here have joined the funding and the funds. We have them in relatively good condition. We are constantly going through the narrowities we have in funding. We have an even better fund situation. We have fund funds, of which the third was opened a few weeks ago, and they have been quite good successes so far. Jarva then asked how to secure Business Finland services. In practice, they can be secured by result guidance and Team Finland coordinator. These Team Finland coordinators will be in every province. The result control can do this. Representative Harakka: There has been a challenge with regard to innovation funding. The situation has now been reached that it has been possible to increase the funding for innovation, both direct funding and capitalisation. So this landing period has been completed. Next year will be a plus year. Congressman Talvitie asked, and more than one, about these resources. Of course, the basic point is that overlaps are eliminated and resources are increased in the field. My own view is that during an organisation's review it should be examined whether these forces and weightings are correct. Pirttilahti asked about the development of tourism. For the first time, tourism actually received more funding, 8 plus 8 million. We had a meeting between the Nordic Ministers of Economic Affairs in Bergen, where it was decided that we should start planning a joint tourism strategy and work on it. Congressman Hassi asked about cleantech exports. I was in Indonesia on a export promotion trip. This is actually related to the question of Mr Sea. Waste-to-energy is of great interest, and that is what Finland has to offer at the moment. We have big companies and we have small companies, and it works out pretty well here that these big companies are the drivers for these small companies. It was very good to see how well they come together. Our growth programmes will therefore be bio-cleantech, digital, food, tourism, creative industries and cross-sectoral. In other words, we will continue to be there in the key areas. For Mr Kalmar: Growth programmes will continue in the form of Tekes, or will be combined inside, and there Food from Finland will be quite clear top projects. It will continue there and then in the form of Business Finland. Mr President! I'm sorry I exceeded my time, but there were a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u57	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u58	Mr President! We were in space once in a while, but now we're going under a cow and into the hall of a pighouse. But it is not a trivial matter, because it is about the survival of the primary producer. If that primary producer is unable, we will not have the 340 000 jobs in the food sector that we currently have. After all, the possibilities in this food sector are limitless or very much greater than today, if only there is faith and will to change things. Denmark, for example, exports 80% of its food, and Finland still has a long way to go. In this proposal, it will be supported in primary production by a reduction of the hourly allowance for foster care by 4.59%. It is a very welcome bill, because there are even situations in which the farmer is not currently able to use substitute aid, even if he is seriously ill, because the economic situation is so weak right now. This alone, of course, does not completely improve the position of the farmer, but it is part of the chain of actions that attempts to provide crisis assistance to farms there. It is a good thing that the farmer's emergency has been heard and addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u59	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Farmers' Holiday Services Act by reducing the compensatory payments for farmers to be paid in 2018. I think that this government proposal is very welcome because the poor profitability of farms has further increased the mental burden on entrepreneurs. Our goal as Finnish MPs must be to ensure that rural activities are profitable and valued, that farmers and farmers are able to do their valuable work. This proposal will support entrepreneurs and farmers who are facing payment difficulties and promote the reconciliation of family and work. As stated in the proposal, the difficulties in payment due to the difficult financial situation of farmers are causing an increasing number of entrepreneurs to work sick and family-free people to fail. The aim of the reduction in the allowance is to support the possibility for entrepreneurs to leave work even if they are ill or because of family leave. I think the proposal is very good and very timely.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u60	Mr President! The Finnish farmer has been under severe discipline for years. The EU has curvatured the pillars of our food production by means of its directives and has obliged entrepreneurs who trust in the province to comply with what directive and regulation at any time. The independent Finnish farmer will be patronized from Brussels and will be informed when the grain should be sown in the field. The EU's sanctions on Russia also tighten the surface, with the weather of past summer and the shockingly bad harvest weather of autumn on top of I. One can say that earth faith is now being tested in many ways. Entrepreneurs are becoming weary under their burdens. Sometimes you have to rest and put the care of the animals in the hands of others. We need backup. Replacement trees shall be entitled when the entrepreneur is unable to carry out his or her essential tasks as part of the management of the company for the temporary reason provided for by the law. However, the substitute aid pays, and, along with all the financial discipline, many people can no longer afford to hire substitute aid, no matter how screaming the need is. This is why the government has heard the needs of farmers and is offering at least a moment's relief by proposing a reduction of 4.59% in replacement aid in this bill and a reduction in the fixed hourly payment of aid for business arrangements to EUR 12. If implemented, the law would add an additional EUR 1 million, but I believe that this sum will accumulate many times more by reducing the mental burden on farmers and thus increasing numbers of farmers will be able to continue their activities and provide us Finns with food and security of supply. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u61	Mr President! Working as an agricultural entrepreneur holding animals on a farm is hard work and, of course, being able to work for an entrepreneur is widely reflected in all agricultural production and its jobs and our self-sufficiency, but it also affects the well-being of the animals he keeps. Farmers are entitled to 26 annual holidays per year, and it is good that this Government proposal for 2018 reduces the compensatory payments, so this entrepreneur's right can also become a practical opportunity. It is good if this change lowers the threshold for the farmer to really keep those vacation days for him and in this way to be better able to cope with his demanding and responsible work. The beginning of this proposal is good and the direction is right, but I would still like to hear more about the ideas of the government and the ways in which they are designed to achieve these important goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u62	Mr President! This government's proposal to reduce the compensatory payments is one of the measures and legislative proposals which are currently facilitating the heavy burden on farmers. This past year has been extremely bad with regard to crop prospects: firstly, late spring, then a cold, rainy summer, which has then continued in the rainy autumn. All of these have caused an unprecedented difficult situation, particularly in the field of harvesting. As a general rule, it is used in livestock farms and the majority of the criteria for replacement support are based on the fact that one or both of the farmers' families have fallen ill. That is why it is important that we have such a substitute system. As has already been heard from previous speakers, a substitute allowance will be charged, and this bill will now facilitate a total of approximately EUR 1 million in replacement aid payments. In practice, this means that a 4,59 % reduction in the hourly price is made from the substitute payment table or the substitute payment. This is very welcome. As has been pointed out in previous speeches, although this reduction is so small, it is nevertheless important and many other measures are also needed to facilitate the agricultural situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u63	Mr President! This is an important issue for us to take care of the Finnish food producers. As mentioned above, this is a matter of substitute aid, which can therefore be obtained in situations where, as mentioned above, help is needed, for example, because of illness or for some other reason. This is subject to a charge, and it is now being reduced to make it easier to take help. We have had an exceptionally difficult year in Finnish agriculture, and I welcome the fact that the government has now shown its determination to help Finnish food producers. However, these aids may not yet be sufficient, and I also welcomed the fact that negotiations have been opened with the European Union on the various instruments so that we can better help in such an exceptionally difficult situation when the summer has been cold. In the autumn, when such rains and weather came at harvest time, there was a lot of crop left in the fields in my own area, exceptionally much, and there must be ways to help with these too. In fact, I wanted to finish by raising the issue of animal farms which are not eligible for relief services. We currently have a lot of horse farms that do not meet the requirements for them to receive, for example, not this substitute aid, but relief aid. I myself would like to see ways found for these farms too, because no work should be such that there is no day off or the possibility of a small holiday. Even these farms do valuable work, for example, on sports and sports in horse riding stables.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u64	Mr President! The relief system is an important part of farmers’ well-being and well-being, and now this government proposal contributes to reducing the costs associated with the use of substitute aid. It is a step in the right direction and a good solution. It also has this mental effect — it is seen that the government has compassion for the difficult situation of farmers. It is also a good thing that Minister Saarikko, who is responsible for this whole, has promised to take the statements seriously as part of this development of the relief system. After all, there are some reforms coming up, and I am confident that, to the best of our ability, solutions will be sought, which will then also be the case for practical farmers in order for the system to work. I would like to raise a new issue here: the situation of the quitters, the maintenance of the professional skills of the quitters, and also the ability of the quitters to cope. The work of an agricultural surveyor is increasingly demanding in the context of the mechanisation of agricultural holdings, and this means that investment must also be made in maintaining the professional skills of the holidaymakers. That pay is not very good when the work is scheduled for two more periods, and it must always be remembered that in order for the farmer to remain in good spirits and, I might say so, in the moods of vacation, away from the everyday work, then there must be a skilled breaker who can be trusted while he is there, and in this respect, I would like to say on behalf of this profession that there will continue to be skilled and developmental vacationers in the countryside who would like to do this valuable work then, when farmers are not themselves doing it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u65	Mr President! There has already been concern that there are not enough vacationers or that their skills and training do not meet that need. Here are some nights ago I watched the program from Yle, where one of the landladys told me of this concern that, for example, there are simply not enough people in Uusimaa to get away from. In fact, it was pretty bad for me to say in it that sometimes you get jealous when someone goes on vacation when you want a day or two off. Each of us understands the need for his own space, and they work 24 hours a day for their animals and farms and are tied to them because the animals require treatment in the morning and in the evening. You can't get them into a warehouse, so to speak, so I'll take care of everything on Monday, and I'll be gone for the rest of the week. There was also talk here, including Mr Heinonen, about the fact that the government has helped farmers and sought help from the EU. Yes, I probably did, but somehow I would like longer-term solutions, because it is very hard every year to wait to see if there will be what kind of support and what it will be like next year, if I think about, for example, this vacationing and these replacement costs, then one year at a time, what does it cost next year? These could be thought of as a more permanent arrangement. Then I would like to say as a message to all of us, which I have already mentioned before, that very often we talk about buying Finnish products, but then it would be good to see in the mirror whether you buy as many domestic products as possible. We parliamentarians can afford to buy domestic products, even if it sometimes costs more. According to studies, many Finns are willing to pay more for food, for example, if they know that it affects better treatment of animals. This leads to the next point that I would like to raise, namely that if someone invests in animal welfare, then the producer should be left with the money, that is, it should appear in his bag. He then spends more time, effort, and often also money to make animals well. For buyers, I would send a message to shops and entrepreneurs, and a few times I have told some entrepreneurs and people in the store chain that, for example, when I make choices in the store, for example, for eggs, I am not sure what the difference is between the organic and then on that floor chicken, other than, of course, that the floor chicken is allowed to walk freely. But does the chicken ever get out? [Satu Hassi’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u66	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here, which has been a little more widespread, but since it is part of the farmers' crisis package, I will take it up briefly with what Mrs Meri asked what has been done on a permanent basis: progress has been made on the issue of origin marking, progress has been made on public food procurement and refunds have been made. The whole relief system is being reformed. By the way, it is being renewed precisely in order to enable the greatest possible amount of full-time work for agricultural surveyors, and yet we want to keep to...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u71	Mr President! The farm life is full of work. This is something I have a personal experience of when I grow up on a farm. Cows, pigs, chickens, all farm animals require water and food, treatment 24 hours a day throughout the year. You can't just leave the space standing on your own. It would be important for the welfare of hosts and wives to have at least a little vacation each year. Many farmers are financially distressed, and mental well - being is also under test. That is why the existence of a system of farm relief is of paramount importance — and especially if it works. For example, increasing holidays and lowering fees are good changes. In Finland, there are large regional differences in the functioning of holiday services. Today, it has proved challenging that the termination system does not work in a uniform way throughout Finland. Adequate knowledge of the quitters is also of paramount importance. There are many part-time farmers. It also means that the salary of the holidaymaker is not always sufficient. This is how knowledge begins to fade, and that is a serious matter. Local food is appreciated and domestic production is important — everyone talks about it. But is there enough money for the producer, the payment for the job? Are we prepared to pay for it, including us consumers? Here Mr Meri, Mr Heinonen and Mr Kalmar also raised the issue of animal welfare. It is very important that farm animals are doing well and that producers are able to take care of them well, and that is why we must ensure that this future animal welfare law becomes very good for animals, better than the previous one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u72	Mr President! In fact, I would like to continue with that speech by Mrs Mere: In my previous speech, when I raised the measures that have now been taken in view of this exceptionally difficult autumn, I fully agree that we also need, of course, these measures which will strengthen Finnish food production in a more long-term way, but when such an exceptional year comes this time, we must also have instruments and means to help Finnish food producers in such a situation. And just as Mr Kalmari's long list of measures has told us what has been done during this government and even during the previous government, we have taken good steps in the direction that Finnish food production will be better in the future. It is a matter of quality, it is a matter of taste, but it is also a question of security of supply that we have the widest possible Finnish food production. I myself have wanted to see it as an ordinary citizen of the countryside and a friend of Finnish food, and also as an acquaintance of numerous farmers and Finnish food producers I have seen close to the hard work being done on its food, and then it is good that, for example, this presentation, which is now under discussion, will make it easier for those who work with animals there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u73	Mr President! I would like to say that this is a very important point that this reduction in the compensatory payments will enable farmers who have experienced a very difficult year to be supported, especially livestock producers. I myself have been a part-time farmer at the time, and I saw the significance of the replacement aid in the everyday and coping life of the farm, and it has not decreased at all. However, on a European scale, we still have the production and producer structure of very family farming in Finland, and through this, our good, important speciality, that is to say, this system of holidays and its development, is very important, and I think it is the right signal from the government that this decision will be taken after such a difficult year and at the end of it. After all, there have been many changes since I was an agricultural surveyor. The size of the farm has increased, and the size of the cattle has increased, and it has also placed new challenges on the skills of the quitters and the demands of the work. The tasks have become more demanding, and while the number of herds has decreased, commuting is quite long and regional differences are also large in the availability of skilled holidaymakers, as has been said here. I would therefore like to see more attention paid to this aspect in the future, so that we can also make it easier to develop this professional holidaymaker and holidaymaker skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u74	Mr President! I heard here that we are preparing this new holiday system, and I would like to see it taken into account, perhaps, what we were talking about with Mr Heinonen, the horse economy and the horse businesses, that we could see this — I do not remember now whether it was a restriction of eight horses, and there was a certain field, which, I think, is quite big, for example in Uusimaa. We've got it. Hyvinkää has the area of 2 hectares that has to be in order to keep horses, and there must be at least two three horses — two or three, I think — because they have to have company. If I was thinking about two acres of stables like that, there could be four horses, with gardens and pastures — Hyvinkää has one stable like this — so I guess somehow it should be that he is an entrepreneur and a full-time factor in it, and not just the size of the farm, because there are not that many acres in Uusimaa. I do not remember whether this new riding centre would be so large in number of hectares — I wonder — but the number of horses there will be filled. It is good to consider whether these criteria are now up-to-date and whether they should be the same throughout the country. We don't have that much space here in Uusimaa, even though we have a lot of horses. We could now look at these if it's open.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u75	Mr President! I will answer the question of horses in such a way that, of course, the European Union has had to approve this case so that it does not constitute aid which distorts competition. It has been considered that it can only operate for companies subject to agricultural taxation. As a result, even some large horseback riding stables have not come within the scope of this agricultural leave, and this can be a rather difficult equation at the end of the EU. But the whole thing will be seen when that reform is being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u76	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kalmari, who is much more familiar with the matter than the undersigned, has already brought this clarification to this issue of agricultural taxation, that is to say, smaller farms or even smaller horse operators may at present receive relief aid if, for example, they have other activities around it, such as livestock farming and then horses. This is the type of type it might come in. But when you have, like, 20 horses in a clean riding school, it is not entitled to this help. Let us hope that this can be considered. If there's no way to find it here, would there be any other way? As I said, there can be no profession where you can find no way to make that possible day off or the right to take a vacation. Indeed, although it is not food production when a horse stable is held, it is right and reasonable for such people to have the right, not necessarily the same relief aid as those who raise cattle, but, for example, it could be something in between. Personally, I would like to see a way of helping these valuable workers too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u77	Mr President! This government proposal before us is very good and worthy of support. Indeed, there are a lot of difficulties on the agricultural side today, and this amendment to the Lodging Services Act, which is currently under discussion, is important to reduce these replacement aid payments slightly, because it is extremely poor in terms of agricultural profitability today. For some reason, this ceiling, which has been caused by natural conditions, by heavy rains on Finnish agriculture, is an intolerable situation. Even small aid is now needed in many different directions to get Finnish agriculture and farms into the growth career that should be. It should be borne in mind that if we do not have profitable agriculture in Finland, then we will not have this safe domestic food, nor will we have the 300,000 jobs in domestic food processing in that chain from field to table. It should be remembered that Finnish agriculture is based on a healthy family culture idea and should be maintained as such. These giant large farms, which are common in the world, including in Europe, are not good for agriculture and the whole of this, because they are then in industrial production and, for example, the welfare of livestock is questionable there. That is why this Finnish system is very good and very worthwhile and must be supported in every way so that the Finnish food chain remains healthy from the field to the table and, above all, that farmers overcome the difficulties they are experiencing today. This bill, which is now under discussion, is good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u78	Mr President! I would like to join Mr Hoskonen in this. And thank you for the fact that this issue of the payment of relief services is now moving forward and this will result in some cost relief. Finnish food production is at the core in many ways. It is important that we safeguard food production in our own country. It has many strengths, but it has poor profitability as a major weakness, and we understand that it is difficult to get young entrepreneurs into the sector if we do not improve this profitability. Then it must also be possible to move forward on the cost side when the market price is unfortunately low. This is one part of the government's efforts to promote Finnish food production and, in this respect, of course, deserves good treatment here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u79	Mr President! This is a very important issue with regard to the legislation on holidays, which is also very important for this year. But it is very important, in terms of mental well-being, how the farms are able to work — even larger are these agricultural units that work, and there are two people, and sometimes even one person is primarily responsible — for making the relief system run smoothly. Of course, then, this economic aspect of making payments easier is very welcome during such a weak harvest. There was also a discussion about these others as to whether this vacation system could be extended. I think positively of it in the sense that it could from the point of view of animal safety and animal welfare legislation. But I'm sure horse farms and others have the opportunity to organize this vacation service themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u80	Obviously it was not the best way, but I think and believe that the text was taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u81	Mr President! Today we are talking about working in different professions — always the right subject for discussion — but I think that too little has been said about working for farmers. Under these current conditions, which have been set by nature for farmers, a terrible year of wetness, the harvest has been completely unrepaired on many farms and the economic situation is truly unsustainable. This government proposal, which is now under discussion, is a small part, as I said, of this improvement in the profitability chain, but it is worth remembering that vacationing, the farmer's right to spend some time free and to relax and to gather strength for new challenges, is extremely important. I have met a few farmers, for example, during the week off for part-sessions, and they have a very clear message. There people live under a very great tribulation, and that vacation is needed. Finally, Mr President, with regard to this matter, I would like to conclude by bringing about a mentality in this country at last and finally, that when we are talking about buying so-called Fair Trade products from shops, when we buy coffee, when chocolate, when what, and when we import food from Africa on the principle of fair trade, when do we start talking about farmers' survival in this country? Fair trade would be to give the farmer a fair share of the product he sells for processing. This is the giant problem. Central shops and shops do play their part, but the farmer always stays on the mop. I think this is a national disgrace. Yes, we must ensure that there is food processing in this country and security of supply is guaranteed. There's no vispa scones for that. Let us also ensure that domestic food is allowed to have a fair trade, and that it is not made into a bulk lot that can be paid for by some surplus price that cannot be achieved in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u82	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u83	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the article on the amount of child benefit by raising the level of the single parent-retirement allowance by EUR 4.75 per child. The single parent increase would increase from EUR 48.55 per child to EUR 53.30 per month. The main content of the Government proposal states that in the calculation of income support, the child allowance is taken into account as income affecting the amount of income support, and therefore the increase in the level of the single-parent distribution of the child benefit in families receiving income support would not affect the disposable income at all. It is precisely this that is the greatest shame and failure of the Child Welfare Act. At present, the poorest and most recent families of children dependent on financial assistance, i.e. income support, are virtually excluded from child allowances when they are taken into account when calculating income support. This puts families, especially children, in an unequal position when some families with children receive child benefits on top of all other incomes, but the lowest-income or incomeless families are completely excluded. Mr President! There are a very large number of families with children receiving income support and their relative number also varies significantly from region to region. In 2014, the highest relative figure was in Uusimaa, or 10.6 per cent, and the lowest figure was in Central Ostrobothnia, where the figure was 6.3 per cent. However, these are wild figures with long-term implications. There is a huge amount of research on poverty among families with children, which the government must now take seriously. We know that poverty affects the well-being and development of a child, and we know that very young children are under stress about the livelihood of their families, and in particular the long-standing financial problems of families affect the well-being of children. There are many factors behind the poverty of families with children. One factor is specifically related to the family structure. Single parents have a much higher risk of poverty than families with two guardians. Families with multiple children and families with an immigration background are also at risk of poverty. But the single parent increase in child benefit can only partially answer this problem, because some of these families are virtually without this increase. Mr President! The low level of basic safety is a major reason for the poverty of families with children. The real value of family-policy transfers has collapsed. This particularly affects poor families with children, where income transfers account for three times as much as other families with children. The situation of families receiving income support must now really be made easier. Studies show that if parents have received long-term income support, this will affect, among other things, the level of education of children, mental health problems and income problems in adults. There must now be a change of direction in the line of cuts that increase inequality, exclusion and income disparities. Although the proposal for a single parenting breed is a step in the right direction and is to be supported, we still have much to do in the area of a fairer income distribution policy in order to eliminate the poverty of families with children and ensure equal opportunities for each of our children to live and grow regardless of the family's financial situation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Child benefits must be secured on an equal footing for all, including those who receive income support, i.e. for the poorest families. This is not the case now that the child benefit is deducted from the family income support. I have taken a legislative initiative in 2014 and 2015. I hope that this will finally be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u84	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! A good Finnish citizen! I would have expected social democrats to be present in this Chamber at the time of the debate on child supplements. In this proposal, the government is proposing a single parent increase, and this is one choice in a difficult and tight situation to allocate the single currency that is to be distributed to those who are particularly in need of it. In this case, the single parent increase will be increased by just under EUR 5 so that it will rise to less than EUR 55 per child per calendar month, and in total approximately EUR 9.5 million will be spent on this next year. The economic position of single-parent households is by far the weakest in all our families with children. According to Statistics Finland's latest income distribution statistics for 2015, the low income ratio of single-parent households was up to 20.7 per cent. Compared with other families with children, the lower income ratio of two guardians was clearly lower, 6.5 per cent. The low income ratio for the whole population was 11.7 per cent, which means that the situation of single-parent families is exceptionally difficult. In this case, the minimum income threshold is set at 60% of the median disposable income of all households, i.e. income proportional to household size. This proposal will improve the financial position of these families. Representative Hänninen raised the key challenge and problem of our child welfare system, and these are the families that live on the lowest income support of all. We have generally accepted that child benefit is a subsidy that is given to everyone regardless of the level of income. Whether there is a high income or a low income, child benefit is justified. There has also been a debate about the fact that others have argued that not every family needs child allowance, and we remember the discussion when some people sometimes populistly suggested that their families do not need child benefit to give it up. Then they did not give up eventually, and the child benefits went to those families too, and they also belonged to them. The idea is precisely to equalise taxation between families with children and those without children, and that is where this child benefit has worked well. As stated in this proposal, child benefit is not taxable income and is not, as a general rule, taken into account as income in income-lower income security benefits or income-linked customer fees, and therefore the increase in the single parentage rate usually increases the net income of the single parent household by the euro equivalent, but, with the exception of the income support raised by this representative Mr Hänninen, which is taken into account as income, and therefore the income of the single parent household receiving income support does not increase as a result of the increase or increase only by part of the increase in the single parent increase. This proposal is one part of this package, which wants to support the position of families with children now, one important part of it, and here it is described in a good way how the child allowance introduced at the time by Mr Rinte during the Finance Minister's time, which was then imposed by him only for a limited period of time, i.e. for the years 2015 to 2017, has not worked effectively, and because of this, as Rinne himself said at the time, it is only a fixed-term solution, it is now not extended but is more effectively targeted at the families for whom it is most needed. This proposal well highlights the measures and how, for example, this will target and help these families even better than the previous child reduction, since many of these single-parent families did not achieve full child reduction through their own taxation. Mr President! I will go a little further than that by going through the other measures now being taken by Minister of Finance Orpo in next year's budget proposal for families with children. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million next year, and the discounts will be targeted specifically at those on low and middle incomes and the sister discount of the second child will be increased to 50%. At the beginning of next year, 6,700 Finnish families will become fully free of charge in early childhood education. The early childhood education fees for a middle-income child family will fall by more than EUR 1200 next year, also as part of this particular issue of child reduction, i.e. now its option is to reduce the early childhood education fees so significantly that the early childhood education fees of a normal Finnish family will decrease by more than EUR 1200 per year. In addition, the experiment on free early childhood education will be introduced, and the Coalition Party has suggested that our aim should be to make early childhood education free of charge and possibly all children subject to high-quality, high-quality early childhood education, which is done by highly educated professionals in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u85	Mr President! It is true that the government is making a small increase in child benefit, but at the same time forgetting all the other decisions that have been taken during this period. One example of this is that the government will not continue to deduct children from taxation, so the taxation of families with children with low and middle incomes will be tightened, i.e. as the only group of the population. Child tax deduction was created during the last government term at the request of KD. The government’s EUR 5 per month for a single parent means an additional EUR 240 per year for a family of four children, while at the same time it is exported EUR 400 in the form of a child allowance. So the family gets 240 euros a year but loses 400 euros. For them too, then, and for others, nothing but tax evasion. Of course, the reduction in day care fees is a good thing, but these pros and cons do not necessarily hit the same family. So something compensates, but many people know only tax increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u86	Mr President! Mr Östman is now simply picking up a few points from this whole and apparently he has not read this government proposal, which makes it very clear how this will lead to a better economic outcome for many families with children, and then it is said that the same will happen if the taxable person’s income is not sufficient to make full use of the child allowance because of their low income. Now that child allowance is taken away, the alternative is that we will reduce early childhood education fees by EUR 70 million, and that means that instead of a child reduction, the early childhood education fees of a normal Finnish family will fall by over EUR 1200 next year, and this whole, in addition to these other decisions, one of which is now under discussion today, will make this positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u87	Mr President! I have both read and calculated — both read and counted — and I have picked up this example, this instance, which I mentioned: Although EUR 240 is added a year to certain families, but at the same time as this child allowance is abolished, they will be deprived of EUR 400.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u88	Mr President! I have to say to the recent debate that I still do not know where the reductions in early childhood education fees will be taken from. That municipalities will have to dig them out of their purses and raise taxes or cut off other services, when the increase in property tax did not go as planned?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u91	Mr President! I will continue with the good speech by Mr Mäkelä. Indeed, this bill has proposed an increase of EUR 4.75 per month and per child in the level of the single parent race. It is a positive change, of course, and it must be acknowledged. In other words, the single parent increase would therefore amount to EUR 53 and EUR 30 cents per month, but, as has already been said here — and Mr Hänninen has pointed out, among other things — this level increase does not affect the income of families receiving income support, at least in full, which is a very regrettable problem. In addition, the whole should indeed be taken into account much more widely than in the case of this single parent breed alone, i.e. the child allowance was introduced in 2015 to compensate for these drastic cuts in child supplements of over 8% at the time. Now this government is removing the child allowance. This issue has rightly been raised in the Government's proposal, which states that the combined effect of a child-reduction tax of EUR 50 per child per guardian in the families of two guardians and EUR 100 per single parent, if the parents' income is within certain income limits, is that the combined effect of the increase in the level of this child-reduction and the abolition of child-reduction is that the combined effect is EUR 43 per child per year for families with children with low and average incomes, including a single parent, and in families with two guardians of up to EUR 100 per child, at worst up to EUR 400 per year for the loss of income. Under the current very low birth rate, the living conditions of families with children should be improved, not weakened. That is why the Finns have taken the initiative to extend the period of child allowance, and I hope that the government will:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u92	Mr President! This amendment to Article 7 of the Child Welfare Act has also given rise to a very tough debate, but the most important thing here is that families with poor economic conditions are genuinely supported. To what is the best way in the world, all I have to say is that the most important thing for these families receiving income support, even if it is a single parent family, is to get people a job. It is the only way and the right way in the long run, because living on different supports in the long run is very problematic. This is why, for example, now that we have had a debate on the fact that the situation in central government finances is essentially improving, and at a good pace, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that local government economies have improved very badly over the last two years is too little. At the time of the previous government, we had local government finances at a very low level. If I remember correctly, about 20 municipalities were on the verge of a crisis, they wobbled to the fact that they were being investigated by the Ministry of Finance's municipal department, whether they were still able to manage their affairs. A municipality that is in such difficulties or is approaching difficulties that the existence of a municipality is genuinely threatened will certainly not be able to develop the school conditions of children, no early childhood education, no social and health services, nothing at all. Last year, the local government finances were already over 400 million in pros. The kind of town that's got the economy in order... For example, in my municipality of residence, I know that early childhood education fees have not been collected and that children receive it free of charge in the day care centre of early childhood education, and very flexiblely. In concrete terms, it shows that if the municipality is actually able to invest money in services, of which the services of families with children are first place, and so are education services, primary education, secondary education and early childhood education, and so on, it can only happen in a well-being municipality where the economy is in order. This is too much attention to be paid to,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u93	Mr President! I have to thank Mr Heino for his excellent speech, which means that he has a genuine concern about this issue of livelihoods for families with children, and of course we, too, here on the left, are pleased that the single parent increase is being presented and will come, even though this figure of 4.75 is very marginal. Then, of course, as the representatives here have suggested, there have also been these weakenings that affect the livelihood of families with children at the same time, i.e. the plus minus zero situation is inevitable, and perhaps in some families you can actually take the negative side. In that sense, it is good to call for a comprehensive family policy solution and strategy, which actually eliminates this poverty among families with children, as we had over 63,000 families with children below the poverty line in 2014 and, in other words, in poverty and in these families there were 126,000 children. This is a huge amount. In Finland, which is a welfare state, a rich country, this should not be the case. We have all the means — fiscal means, means of transfer — to help these families and to get them out of this poverty and the risk of poverty and thus to prevent the spiral of exclusion and nausea. Well, we're here today for the big questions. I regret the fact that, in addition to the Left Alliance, there was only one signature of an external representative for this bill, to which I asked all the representatives to sign. It was representative Karimäki from the Greens, and others were not interested in this at the time. Perhaps it was busy or something, but I would like to see this matter taken forward on the government front. In 94 C.E., Esko Ahon’s government removed this child benefit from privileged income. Although the single parent increase was then increased, this was an unhelpful weakening for the very families most affected by this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u94	Mr President! Congressman Hänninen, I would have liked to have signed. I can tell you that in the shadow budget of the RKP, we have this inside us. I myself have been a minister at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 99 years, and it is still very difficult for me to understand this logic as to why this compatibility is with income support. In principle, child benefits have been thought to be an idea that does not equalise income differences, but rather that of families with children and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u97	Mr President! The way I feel about child benefit is that I want it to come to everyone. In my opinion, that is the principle that upholds it. That is why I understand this concern extremely well, which has been raised in this debate by Mr Hänninen, the representative of the Left Alliance, and what others have said. But what I really wanted to take the floor for is that the real estate tax case went as planned and not as Mr Mäkelä claimed it did not go as planned. It went exactly as planned. So it was one option that the lower limits of property tax can be raised if the situation requires it. And now, when we look at the situation, as Mr Hoskonen has pointed out, we have a much better local economy and, in fact, the objectives set for the property tax could be met without this compulsory increase. It makes sense for the government to say that we do not do so when there is no obligation to do so. This proposal highlights the way in which this increase works, for example, for some families even better than that child allowance. Let us also underline that the government is not, therefore, about to stop child-retirement, but that it will automatically end. Mr Rinnek, the representative of the Social Democrats, who was the Minister of Finance, did not make it permanent, but presented it only for a fixed period of two years, and in accordance with his decision it will end now after this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u98	Mr President! I would like to say once again that this single bill is indeed to be welcomed. There are no comments as such. But I too hope, as has already been said on several occasions here today, that there will be a broader overall assessment of changes in the benefits and taxation of families with children, so that we decision-makers here in Parliament can learn a little more about what the combined effect of these changes will be for families with children in different income categories, and then we will also be able to make more balanced decisions. In this regard, Mr Hoskonen said above that the best remedy for families with children is that the guardians can work. Of course, that is an obvious fact. Yes, during the early decisions of this reign, when the Finns of Finland were still in government, the country’s economy was improved, and employment has improved, and it has certainly helped families with children. The truth is, however, that the abolition of child allowance, which is now mentioned outside the second reading bill — or it will automatically be abolished if the government does not want to continue to do so — also causes problems for working families with low incomes. I see this as a problem, like my colleagues, Mr Östman, and also Mr Mäkelä. Mr Heinonen spoke about better allocation of these benefits, but it is, in my opinion, a question of savings. This reduction in early childhood education fees is in principle a good thing, but it does not apply to parents of school-age children. On the other hand, they are also affected by this abolition of child allowance. It must also be borne in mind that some of these are necessary to reduce early childhood education fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u99	Mr President! Mr Biaudet must be grateful for the fact that the RKP has taken this issue into its own shadow budget and then made a correction in this regard. This is really a big deal, and we need to keep this on the surface and in conversation. Of course, I am a little surprised too that the Chamber is so empty, because I thought that this child supplementation and the livelihood of families with children as a whole would be something that we would all be discussing and talking about, and that we would all be concerned about, when we have seen different statistics, however, with alarming indications that poverty in families with children is on the increase. We must seize this now that this time is here and not wait for it tomorrow. Mr President! I would also like to say to Mr Hoskonen that, of course, I myself believe that work is the best social security and so on, but for these families, where this situation is acute and jobs are not available, it does not, of course, help to say that work is the best social protection, but that they now need its help and its basic income in order to be able to live that intelligent life. Of course they all try to get that job, but if there is no work available, then in a way this kind of saying it does not help much. The reduction and abolition of early childhood education fees are welcome proposals, and the Left Alliance has also proposed that the early childhood education fee should be abolished. This would also be an important factor from the point of view of the equality of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u100	Mr President! Indeed, since colleagues from previous governments have been perhaps a party of government in their own time, I am a little surprised that now, in opposition times, that great wisdom was found. What kind of guarantee was it not used when the government was in charge? Someone mentioned in his speech that major cuts were made at the time of Esko Aho. It is probably worth remembering that much of the past if you do not return to it, but just a little glimpse of it: you remember how Finland was in a terrible situation. We were about to get caught up in the International Monetary Fund because no one trusted us any more, that is to say no longer available for external lending to a country in need of debt. We were right on the edge of the knife. You will remember those comments made by Minister of Finance Iiro Vii-nanen when he was running in the Far East begging for money that he could get a little loan to pay the wages. Let us not think back to those times, but let us learn from them. As has just been said in the Team Finland case — in the previous paragraphs, Minister Lintilä reported on this situation as to how Finland’s exports are leading — now there are large-scale exports, not only as regards the sale of top cruisers, but as regards the fact that there is genuine growth in all sectors of the economy at the moment. It is our job to maintain it. If we imagine that we are going to survive this income support trap and distribute subsidies and live a happy life, a country with more than EUR 100 billion in debt, then it is worth a little thought about economic policy principles before going to say that the government has done something wrong. There must have been some mistakes. The line of perfect people is very short. I haven't found one yet, but, of course, we have to look for it with limited force all the time. In any case, however, it is important to note that the economy is growing and people are getting jobs, and also the weakest ones in society are being cared for. This reform of child allowance in this respect is very good. I am very much in favour of this, and even more so, I am in favour of getting people a job and a livelihood — a genuine livelihood that will be able to care for and collect for its own family the much-needed pension provision then,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u101	Mr President! That answer I received from Mr Heinos, among other things, that where the money would be taken from for that reduction in early childhood education fees was not really the answer I would have liked, because at least until now I have understood that the government has had a principle that the obligations and burden of payment of municipalities should not be increased, but that if the municipalities are given some new tasks, then the state will have the money to allocate to them. The situation in these municipalities is not particularly laudable at the moment. Yes, in many municipalities there are savings decisions, high tax rates, home school repairs, growing investment budgets and debt. There's not too much money in there for the government to just drop obligations on it. But now that we are talking about the allocation of income transfers, I think there is a great deal too much emphasis on reducing early childhood education fees. At the same time, why not take into account the fact that many children are in home care and that their families should also be taken into account? For example, the situation of their families was also affected in a different way when this early childhood education fee does not affect at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u102	Mr President! I myself remember the times in the '90s, I was also in the Parliament, and I tried to offer an open hand here, quite honestly, that I could actually have talked to Mr Hoskonen about resolving matters too, and I think we were very polite on this side, and we did not play any opposition-government game, but we are really concerned about this. I have been pushing for this cutting-off of income support and the reconciliation of child supplements for as long as I can remember. I also think it is good to learn from those times of the recession of the 1990s — we know what we may not have known then. Even then, it was interesting how it was in fact easier to get political decisions on the size of basic income subsidies and basic elements, whereas it was much more difficult to find those savings for those who had a larger front, and I remember that as a young Member of Parliament this was very confusing. We then learned from studies in families with children after the years of recession that it also had a great deal to do with the future of children, and that unemployment, of course, also affected the well-being of children. The intention was genuinely to talk about it and to discuss this issue, that if we could find a solution to this. It is not a question of the country's economy; it is a question that when we decide to raise child allowances or raise the single parent's raise, it should at least target the poorest. It's nothing more than this. In fact, it is quite simple, but this has been very difficult to implement, and now I ask that we can work together to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u103	Mr President! The problem with this child allowance situation with regard to families receiving income support is that why, as a Member of Parliament, I receive child benefits for four children but the poor person who has to pick up his daily bread from the bread line and who has those children to care for, does not receive them. I think this is a pretty big injustice, Mr Hoskonen. It is not a question of wanting to live on some subsidies or social benefits. I do not believe in it at all, but that those people need it, they need it, they can't handle it otherwise, and that's why I'm worried. Mr President! On behalf of the child, the group has taken the initiative – it must have been over a year ago – to talk in this Chamber more broadly about the poverty of families with children and precisely those solutions, as Mr Biaudet pointed out. So, in my opinion, we are in this Chamber looking for solutions to the problems and not, at least, making more problems; there are already enough of them to say that I agree with the other representatives. And why I brought up Esko Aho’s government in 94 was only because this change was made in relation to child benefit. In other words, the single parent was raised, but at the same time this privilege was removed from the child allowance, which was then taken into account as income when applying for income support. But until then this was not done, and that is why I see that this could take a step forward, or actually backwards, and again make the child benefit a privileged income, which actually belongs to the child universally, for the child’s maintenance, and to compensate for the income differentials between family and familyless. That's when this would come true. It would then be a fairer state in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u104	Mr President! Thank you to the colleagues for their good advice and friendly words. Indeed, this government, too, certainly wants families with children to be doing well and the children to be doing well. Yes, it is Finland's future in this year of independence. Children have our future, that is an undeniable fact. But when we do this work here in Parliament, I hope that such an approach will also be taken into account, that when it comes to dealing with the problems that the starting government always has — the Aho government, the Sipilä government or anyone else’s government — it will be the moment. And now, too, this small change in child allowances is very welcome, the strengthening of local government finances is certainly welcome, the reduction in jobs and unemployment is certainly welcome. We must remember that at our worst we spent EUR 7 billion on unemployment. Now we have almost halved it, and we must continue along the same path. We're not even halfway through that route yet. We must remember that the Finnish economy went in the wrong direction for eight years, a terrible downhill. It is said that from October 2008 to then until 2015 there was a huge decline. We still have not achieved the level of GDP we had in 2008. So this is the big point, and it is the weaker that will benefit most of all. Some wise statesman once said that a strong state economy is the best friend of the poor. And that's true, by the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u105	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u106	Mr President! I have to say here that even if this is a technical proposal from the government which amends the law on state compensation for the provision of shelter to the producer of shelter services, I would like to see words finally taken up in Finland in order to fulfil the obligations of the Istanbul agreement. That is why I took the floor, although it may be a little close to the issue, but since the issue of home shelters is important to all of us, I thought it might be part of this context. It would be really great that in this centenary year of Finland's centenary, the government would allocate sufficient financial resources to prevent and combat domestic violence, and that this network of shelters would finally be in line with customer numbers and that it would be easier to achieve. There are currently only 118 shelters, but this Istanbul agreement would oblige 550 places. And now we should perhaps ask the representatives of the government whether you are going to promote within the government that Finland will finally start to comply with this Istanbul agreement and allocate the EUR 40 million required for this network of shelters per year in order to meet these conditions. At the moment, I think there are only just over 13 million of this money, which is allocated to the shelter network every year in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u107	Mr President! The substance of Mr Hänninen's speech is very much the same. In other words, shelters are a sad but necessary part of our society, and their funding should be higher rather than lower, because the threshold for women, children and men at risk of domestic violence should be small if the situation so requires. There has been a lot of talk about not being able to enter a shelter when it is too crowded. I would therefore like to hear about the government's plans to secure the financing and operation of shelters. At the moment, there is a little too much activity and funding on a voluntary basis in many cases, which is, of course, a good thing in the sense that the third sector should always be used in these matters, but its basic funding should nevertheless come from society and the state on such an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u108	Mr President! If I memorize this year’s budget book, a little more money will be reserved for shelters for the coming year than is available for the current year. This is a positive direction, but it is worth drawing attention to the fact that the conditions currently prevailing in society are tough for families with children, as has been said in many speeches, and in many families these problems will then become so acute that the local authorities will have to deal with the situation of their families as an extreme measure, for example, taking care of children, which is a very drastic measure. I think that the municipalities are doing that job well, and these shelters are then needed, for example, in cases of violence. I have wondered in this Parliament that when we talk about drugs, for example, drugs are certainly the environment in which these tragedies are played. Problems resulting from drug use often lead to a family going to a shelter because it often involves violence and many other negative phenomena. And yet there are people in this house who are in favour of, for example, the release of cannabis. It is quite incomprehensible that we are in favour of, for example, cannabis, which would then lead to the use of harder drugs in the future, and that would be a serious matter. What is not the background to this debate as openly as it is, or in other words, open to debate, but in this way you can hear unfounded speeches and read in the newspapers? I've been wondering what's the point of this. In my opinion, law enforcement should be at the level of keeping the use of drugs to a minimum and preferably zero in this country and taking care of people. Of course, a shelter is the last option for the protection of young children and parents, but it is the case that society bears its responsibility for it if there is no money for law enforcement and police action and the problems are exacerbated to the level of intervention by such drastic means in the lives of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u109	Mr President! The implementation of the Istanbul agreement is one of the good promises of the government. There is one step here and, in fact, it is only now that these administrative decisions on how to obtain shelter services are being organised. The government has also increased some funds so that a few shelters can be built, but the need is really great. Violence against women is the biggest human rights problem in Finland, and one might expect it to receive more attention in the government budget as well. The Istanbul agreement also requires that we have rape centres that could support people, the victims of rape, in this situation and share knowledge. One very bad weakening, regardless of this small, positive extra money, is that, now that the state has taken over the operation of shelters, it has decided that the services provided in shelters to victims of trafficking in human beings will no longer be covered, and I think that is a very big problem in separating violence against women from the conditions for providing services in the form of shelters, perhaps to the most vulnerable people, often with foreign backgrounds, but also with Finnish background. I expect the government, as soon as possible, to solve this problem of helping and sheltering victims of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u110	Mr President! I would like to thank colleagues for raising the issue of the Istanbul Treaty and this subject. I work in the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe, and we Finns are often asked what our situation is in this matter. Unfortunately, I have had to answer that we are not such a pioneer as I wish Finland were. We should therefore work together to consider better ways of achieving the objectives of the Istanbul Agreement, at the very least before we have to be monitored if this does not improve. The identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings is a key issue. Thank you, Mr Biaudet, for bringing it up. In addition to this, we also have other gaps in the system. We do not always recognise people’s problems and then we cannot help them either. There are issues in forced marriages that are still unresolved and a significant part of intimate violence and domestic violence remains hidden. We should address all of these. Of course, there has been some investment in shelters, but I think it is quite clear that, in this current situation, where social problems often accumulate, the number of shelters is not sufficient and we must continue to do so. Finally, I also share the concern that all forms of substance abuse and also drug use contribute to this whole. But I would like to say to Mr Hoskonen that, as far as I know, cannabis does not involve the element of intimate violence. It has a very different effect. Of course it is an illegal drug and it has its own problems, and of course it can be argued that the use of illegal drugs at all leads to a path that brings social problems with it. But if you have evidence that cannabis, for example, causes violence, I would be happy to see its research material.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u111	Mr President! Shelters are an extremely important part of our social structure at the moment, and if more is needed, it is a sign that we are not doing well: we have had such situations that children have to be taken to a shelter or the spouse goes to a shelter because of violent situations. Personally, I see the fact that we should invest more in these family services then, in order to prevent the need for a whole shelter. The most important thing would be the preventive work that can be done at home with a professional, which will guide that family in the right direction and even in the model that these alcohol problems and the like will no longer occur in that family. The less shelters we need, the better our society will be. I see the great importance of the fact that this preventive family work should be taken with a very big hand in its own element, because we have now gone in the direction that more shelters are needed. Then this basic work will be lost to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u112	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Parviainen, for that excellent speech. Of course, we have such a shame over Finland when we are not really able to implement these obligations under the Istanbul Convention here either. 2015 In August this has come into force, but it's just a stumbling block. Even if there is now a slight positive stream of funding for asylum homes for next year, that is not enough. If we talk about the need for EUR 40 million and then there is some 13 or 14 million presented, it is certainly too little to help. It is sad that some shelters have even had to turn away from the door, that there has been no room, and this must not happen. After all, a shelter must be such an approachable, low-threshold place, from which you know it is good to come here, it is confidential to go and arrive at any time of day when it is urgent. It must also be clear to children that they too are welcome there. Unfortunately, children are also subjected to domestic violence. Men also face it, about 15 per cent of the victims of intimate partner violence are men, but as a rule it still targets women in Finland. All violence is reprehensible, all violence must be able to be tackled, and here, of course, these safety nets and preventive services, substance abuse and psychological services, all together form the whole package in which we all want to help these families, but of course their resources must be in order and we must invest in them. At the moment, there are certainly homes where the situation is taking place, so to speak, and there are suffering, the children are ill, and it is important that we make this problem visible. Unfortunately, not all needy people are afraid to take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u113	Mr President! Representative Olli-Son Parviainen suspected that there were no problems with cannabis use. It is quite certain that the use of drugs in general, the path we take, involves all the evil that is found in this world, and it is very easy to find. Everyone knows that, and I'm not going to lecture you about it, but when you look at the news from the newspapers, the police stuff on that TV that's been done with those subjects, you should just get a little bit deeper on the subject — I don't mean to go down that road, but it's such a violent world that we don't want it even in the worst nightmares. But as far as these shelters are concerned, I firmly believe that care should be taken to ensure that the municipalities are well - being and people have jobs, and then that the welfare of families is cared for — for example, the congregations have a vital role to play. Congregations in their territory do very good child work, youth work, family work, all possible work together. I know that in my municipality of residence, for example, this work is done every day, dozens of different events are held during the week for different families, from little children to old people — all this family work is well cared for. Too little attention is paid to this, because the cooperation that will result from helping people on the ground and at that time is extremely valuable. In this modern society, in which anti-religiousism and anti-congregation and separation from the church have been made quite fashioned, it is almost a cult phenomenon in this society, completely forgotten – of course, that declaration of the word is its own story – that helping one’s neighbor, which is one of the most important tasks of Christianity. It is visible in the congregation work, but they just don’t want to talk about it, and surprisingly, in this society they want to drive it down with two hands, which I find very annoying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u114	Mr President! Indeed, the number of family places in shelters has increased by over 20 percent during this parliamentary term, in two years. The number is therefore for the better, but still completely inadequate. We still have a very, very long way to go with this recommendation from the Council of Europe. And yes, this number of shelters should continue to be secured. Of course, as has already been mentioned in this debate, this is more of a response than a response. There are many different reasons, such as the use of drugs, mental health problems, even unemployment, and many others, which then lead to the eventual need to seek protection from a shelter. And I also believe that these reasons should be tackled as far as possible in a preventive way, and that the third sector has provided good support, thanks to them, but, of course, the government and the public sector also have a lot to develop in the form of appropriations. Individual citizens have approached me, and they too have been concerned about this increase in the use of drugs, and I share Mr Hoskosen's view that we should have a strict and zero tolerance policy against the use of drugs, and we in this House, not only with legislation but also with our speeches, are showing a very important example of how to deal with these very problematic substances, drugs. I think we should be very, very strict about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u115	Mr President! I have to correct enough, Mr Hoskonen, that I really did not say that there are no problems with cannabis. Of course I didn't say that. I replied when you mentioned cannabis in this text on domestic violence and in the first homes as one of the causes of harm, and I said that all illegal drugs and drugs do cause harm, but I pointed out that the effect of cannabis is not such that it itself feeds violence, for example. That was what I meant to say. Of course, we must take a firm stand on the fact that there are many types of substance abuse problems in Finland at the moment, and, for example, what hard drugs do in this society is very cruel to many individuals and often harms their loved ones, as well as the worst problems associated with alcohol. As far as cannabis is concerned, it is easy for cannabis, when illegal, to expose people to social contacts that may be potentially harmful or even dangerous. There is also evidence that it may cause social isolation and is associated with stigma if caught. On the other hand, there are also indications that in psychotic individuals cannabis may increase the likelihood of psychosis. These are very real questions, which must be taken seriously, and no substance is certainly harmless, but I believe that we should have that debate on substance abuse policy separately in another context if we ever get that far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-07-ps-113.u116	Mr President! I still had to take the floor. — Mr Hoskonen, as a church councillor, I am forced to say that many organisations are doing unsolicited work to help people in need, including victims of intimate violence. This is a great thing, of course, but we in society and as a state also have a role to play in ensuring that certain things are in order. The shelter network is one that we must deal with in this Chamber and provide the resources necessary for those who need it to have a place when that situation is in place. So, in that sense, I have a little disagreement, but I certainly appreciate the love of my neighbor, and that is what we should all have. Too many people close their ears and eyes when you see a situation where quite clearly the neighbor’s lady comes in black with her eyes on her face on the swollen stairwell. Which is why you can't touch it like this. Why do you close your eyes and ears and not want to see or hear? In other words, we all have a duty to intervene in such situations, but I also understand that there is a lot of fear, fear for our own health and spirit, the health and spirit of children. It's not easy to leave there and close the door. I myself have met several victims of intimate partner violence. That's a pretty bad situation, a lot of times. Of course, there may be economic uncertainty, unemployment, mental health problems, but there may not be any signs of these major problems in normal, ordinary families that there might even be such a situation. Even economically successful families have this intimate violence. In other words, there are many faces to this matter, and this is something I want to address myself. One of the things that worries me is that I wonder how much domestic violence is also in the family. I don't want that kind of habit to be inherited.
