ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u1	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 8/2017 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 13 June 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u2	Mr President! I propose that Article 27: is given the form of an amendment distributed to the tables, which means that we do not support the addition of the report in order to weaken the provisions on protective measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u4	Johanna Karimäki, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u5	Mr President! I propose that Article 34a is replaced by the following: is given the form of an amendment distributed to the tables, i.e. the use of food waste as an incentive is prohibited by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u6	Chairman! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u7	Johanna Karimäki, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u8	Mr President! Article 41 Joined the previous section, so I'll go to the next section, the next performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u9	Mr President! I suggest that Article 41b is replaced by the following: takes the form of an amendment distributed to the tables, i.e. does not undermine the principles of nature protection in breach of the Birds Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u10	President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u11	Johanna Karimäki, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u12	Mr President! These remaining paragraphs are technical corrections which should have been made if the previous articles had been adopted. Therefore, I will not present them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u13	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 13 June 2017. In the debate, Silvia Modig, supported by Anna Kontula, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u14	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u15	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u16	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased and honoured to present to you the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman for 2016. This is 97. the Ombudsman's report, and it is the thickest one ever. However, the extension of the report has not been our objective; on the contrary, some sections of the report have been shortened and summed up, but there has been a lot to tell. The main reason for the enlargement of the report is to report on the Ombudsman's new specific tasks under international agreements. These include the control of the rights of persons who have lost their liberty... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u19	Mr President, Mr Ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen and others present! The Ombudsman's report is on the table, and first of all we must thank him for his good work. These complaints have been dealt with in a timely manner, which we would like to see in the public administration on many other points. Three months is a very humane period, and when we look at the size of the cases to be dealt with, the work certainly deserves praise. I would like to raise two points here: The first case in which the school accident was the subject of a complaint. In that case, the municipality or school had rolled the payment obligation at least temporarily to the child’s family, and fortunately the Ombudsman made a decision that changed the practice that, in the event of an accident at school, invoices would continue to be passed on to the school or to the municipality’s responsibility in the future. There cannot be a situation where, in a welfare society of this type, the health care of a child after an accident at school could be caught in the family’s financial situation. I want to thank you for this. On the other hand, I wonder: why, in such a self-evident case, was a complaint even needed and, through it, the Ombudsman's solution? Yes, such things should be quite obvious in a country like us. We have a free comprehensive school, and it must then also cover the fact that if something happens in recesses, lessons and elsewhere, then that responsibility will also be there — as it is now after this decision. The Ombudsman’s report for 2016, page 212, contains a section entitled “Personal immunity and privacy protection”. In the past, the prison in Vantaa has been regularly tied up, i.e. handcuffed in prisons by prison transports without individual needs, and the Ombudsman has intervened several times. Parliament has made a unanimous statement on this in its reply EV 255/2014 vp — it was therefore unanimous — where Parliament required that action be taken to bring this activity to the level required by law. The Ombudsman’s decision stated that the Council’s proposal263to change the laws onrefoulement and other laws of The proposal should have included the legalisation or acceptance of this imprisonment, but the surprise in the Constitutional Committee was overturned by this completely common sense decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u22	Mr President! Thank you again to the Ombudsman for his thorough and addressable report. I have only just begun to look at this report, but it seems to me that the same things have been raised as in previous years, and this means that, unfortunately, many of the same violations of human rights are faced by citizens in everyday life. As stated in this report on page 119, the ten main problems of basic and human rights in Finland, which were raised by Ombudsman Jääskeläinen as early as 2013, are still the same. This list of ten points is a good one, and as long as there are shortcomings in these basic issues, it is good to bring it up every year. In this speech, I will only comment on the situation of the disabled and the elderly. The UN CRPD aims to promote, protect and guarantee people with disabilities fully and equally all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote respect for the dignity of people with disabilities. Non-discrimination, accessibility and accessibility are the guiding principles of the UN CRPD. The Convention stresses the autonomy of persons with disabilities and the possibility of taking part in decision-making concerning them. These principles are therefore still not being implemented, and it is therefore important that the rights of people with disabilities are so central to this report as a matter of their own. There are still problems, including restrictions on fundamental rights and special care for people with mental disabilities. There are a lot of shortcomings in services and there are often points to be made in the development of service plans and special service programmes. There are delays and procedural errors in dealing with matters and making decisions. The principles of accessibility and accessibility are not being implemented. Accessibility is still understood too narrowly only as a lack of physical accessibility and it is forgotten that it includes the accessibility of all senses. In an accessible environment — including the digital environment, for example — it is easy for everyone to move, hear, see and understand. I think that in a 100-year-old Finland it would be worthwhile to set an unhindered Finland for the next decades. Accessibility is equality and, if taken into account in all planning from the outset, it does not entail additional costs. When I looked at this report, I also thought about the importance of cultures in the implementation of accessibility. For example, the principle of safety at the expense of self-determination is easily emphasised in elderly care communities. Traditionally, care cultures have given more attention to ensuring physical security than to guaranteeing the meaning of life, and this cultural significance is very difficult to change. Also, relatives may even require the use of restrictive measures on the grounds that no damage would occur. The problem with the care of the elderly is also that we do not currently have a sufficient legal basis to tackle the use of unnecessary restrictive measures. I therefore hope that the self-determination law that is being prepared in the Ministry will soon be here for Parliament. Hopefully it will also help to change cultural attitudes. Mr President! Unfortunately, there are still major shortcomings in the treatment and treatment of elderly people in need. They came up again in this report. Food, hygiene, changing diapers, rehabilitation and outdoor activities are constantly showing up. These shortcomings are often due to insufficient staffing and/or lack of training. Too few staff also easily lead to unnecessary use of medicines, especially psychotropics. In the treatment of people with memory disorders in particular, the fact that if the staff do not have time to interact with the elderly or do things with them together becomes a source of anxiety and challenging behavior, which is then treated with sedatives. In these cases, the use of sedatives is also the use of unnecessary restrictions and abuse. On the other hand, even a sufficient number of staff will not help if employees do not have the skills to face a memory disorder in the right way. As Chairman of the Memory Federation, I am concerned that in many places personnel measurements are far too low in terms of the human needs of people with memory disorders and that there are constantly complaints about serious skills and skills shortages. We have to listen to the messages of both the sick and the loved ones about these things. Also in home care, human resources in many places are insufficient to ensure human and quality living at home. Mr President! Good ombudsman! Good ombudsman! Today I read a news article about Helsingin Sanomat, where neighbors try to prevent the construction of a mental retarded youth dorm in their residential area, as they feel that special groups are not suitable for families with children in the same residential area. This is an example of the fact that there is still much to be done in our attitudes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u23	Mr President! This Ombudsman's report gives a very broad picture of how human rights and different rights are realised in our country, and the best way to get in is by carefully reading these different cases in this report and in the report. I would like to draw attention to a few points here, first of all to the development of the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman himself, and in particular to the fact that this matter has already been raised several times and has also been stated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, still, to this report on how these tasks could be better shared. And the big question is, where's the brake in this house and the action? What is important is that such a body should be able to concentrate on those issues that are particularly relevant to its activities and make it meaningful for it to be able to carry out its work. Secondly, I would like to highlight the diversity of this concept of human rights, the purpose-oriented use of human rights rhetoric, by doing something that is not really a human rights issue for some purpose. Human rights definitions, both in Europe and globally, define very clear human rights definitions and thus enable such a debate to take place more widely now. And I wonder, for example, about the right to practice religion, which is very much spoken of at the moment: what kind of signs can be used to express one’s own faith. And in Finland this freedom of expression of religion has remained almost entirely in the dark in this area. We think we have the freedom to believe, whatever we want, as long as you believe secretly somewhere. There are many ways to limit its expression and practice, or there are currently winds that would wish religious issues, among other things, would not tone down social debate as much as they currently do. I would like to raise another issue relating to equality, which relates to the fund-raising law. There is now a turning point in the fund-raising law where the police administration interprets that congregational communities operating on an association basis should no longer collect collections in their congregations in connection with worship. For over a hundred years this has been the case, and now suddenly the police think that they are doing something wrong. And here, of course, from the perspective of the Non-Discrimination Act, the question arises that when the fund-raising law discusses this, who has the right to collect a gift of money in connection with a congregational event, it is stated that only a religious community, but does not mention these more than 800 other communities and congregations operating on an association basis. Here comes how this kind of thing could have stayed here, as if... Well, I'm sure none of this has been in contact with the Ombudsman. But when it comes to these issues of justice and human rights and equality, it would be hoped that this concept of human rights, in particular, would emerge within Parliament even if a seminar were to consider whether the concept of human rights is changing in Europe. And I believe that we would also gain quality expertise from other parts of Europe, because these are very big issues now that we have this permanent threat of terrorism, the origins of which are very much in the own interpretations of different religions about how to conquer and lead the world. I believe that this would also increase religious literacy and bring us human rights in such a way to the new context and also to Parliament to know that these would then be easier to discuss. In other words, this was the idea of modernising the concept of human rights in the Ombudsman's office, whether it has changed or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u24	Mr. Speaker! It was interesting to hear Mr Laukkanen's speech and that aspect of what freedom of expression of religion means in practice. I very much agree with him that freedom must also be found in the expression of religion or any other opinion or subject and cannot be restricted. In my opinion, the Parliament has tried to act consistently, a great deal of discussion has already been held about the role of the Suvivirre, among other things. However, the Finnish traditions, whether historical or religious, are part of Finnish culture, tradition, and in this way they should not be broken by any administrative decision, which the representative referred to, among other things, in relation to the issue of the collection. I do find it rather wonderful if, within the framework of a religious community, efforts were made to limit their internal collections by saying that it is not part of the business of a fund-raising permit. In this regard, too, it is good to be vigilant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u25	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Ross, for that constructive speech. Such situations now come to light from that field that the Police Government has sent pastoral letters, even on occasions to see how this collection is being collected there. My own view is that this is already going to the practice of religion. There has never been such a need to interpret as... For example, if I use an old language, in the congregations this collection of money was referred to as a offering, because it was so much experienced in worship. I do not want to lead this debate on this fine Ombudsman's report. I do not want to lead it in this direction, but I would say that this is just one such interesting issue which the Ombudsman himself could take to investigate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u26	To the list of speakers, Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u27	Mr President! The role of the Ombudsman is an extremely important task for Finnish society. It is part of an open society where people have the opportunity to make a complaint to the Ombudsman about what they want and, therefore, if there is reason to do so, bring the matter under investigation. We often talk about whether there are too many or too few complaints. I believe that the right number is the one that will become them. The Ombudsman will then give a ruling on them in due course, and that will be the end of the matter. Now that I read in that report that there will be about 5,000 complaints every year to the Ombudsman’s office, I would like to ask two questions. The second is this work jam. About 5,000 complaints are received each year and nearly 5,000 solutions are being reached. Is there currently sufficient resources in the Ombudsman's Office to carry out this important task carefully and at a sufficiently good level? The second question then concerns this division of tasks between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman. There has been a lot of talk about this in many years about whether it is good and clear enough. So, now that the Ombudsman is here, do you think that the current procedure for allocating the duties of the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice is clear and gives both institutions a good opportunity to act?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u28	Mr President! Two things, first the question of eternity and then a more principled question. This issue of age is related to the issue that has already been raised here, that is, the division of duties between the highest law enforcement agencies. For some twenty years or more, I have wondered that this division of labour has not been able to be carried forward. I understand from the Ombudsman's speech that this is, of course, a legislative issue, and therefore the Minister for Justice and the Government must actually intervene in order to take this matter forward. At least I am sending a strong signal that this division of labour should be able to be implemented. I understand that both the Ombudsman's Office and the Ombudsman's Office are: There is a clear basis in the Attorney General's office for doing this. Personally, I would see it as being the duty of the Ombudsman's office to act as a channel for citizens in these complaints, to act as a channel for citizens, and then to act as the Chancellor of Justice as a guardian of the law of the Government. When there has also been talk about whether the government has sufficient resources for law enforcement and thus for law-making, then perhaps more could be done on that side if this concrete, quite clear division of labour were to be achieved. This would also clarify the vision of the citizens, i.e. it would not go in many directions and would not then have to be replaced as if they were flying these missions. President! On the second point, I would like to make a comment. It seems that the bishop of Kuopio diocese Jari Jolkkonen had spoken on freedom of expression in the Committee on the Future. He made an interesting point there, which I would also like to note in this Minutes:'responsibility of the word'. We always like to talk about freedom of speech. It should not be restricted in any way, as we understand freedom of expression, it is one of the legal principles of the West. But I think it should also be linked to the responsibility for words which, of course, in that social media writing and many others, try to show themselves in a great many ways. How can this responsibility be addressed, of course it will have its own sections of the Penal Code, and it has even been up to Parliament to take a position and make decisions about it in legislation or in a criminal staircase. But I would like to stress all the time that, along with freedom of expression, this responsibility for words is always good for us to bear in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u29	Mr President! If the President will allow me to comment on Mr Ross' speech or, in fact, when he spoke about Bishop Jolkonen's speech — responsibility and freedom of speech — in the Committee on the Future, then if the President will allow me, I will give some publicity that Bishop Jolkkonen will also be here tomorrow in Parliament to speak on the same subject in that Auditorium of the Small Parliament. In other words, if this is of interest, it would be a good opportunity to come now to discuss this really important issue there. He has an introduction, but then it is also possible to make good speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u30	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u31	Mr. Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman very much for this annual report, which once again was a big package of figures, to say this. The representative, Mr Rossi, has already made an excellent point about the division of duties between this eternity project, the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman. It cannot be the case today that we have such overlaps, such inefficiency, as is the case in this situation. It is not good for these authorities, under no circumstances, it is not good for society, but it is not good for the citizens either, because they cannot know who is handling and what it is, when it feels that it is sometimes unclear in this house. We need to get this thing started. This government is dismantling standards and the administration of justice is being smoothed out, so this is something that needs to be started, and that is where discussions with the current Minister of Justice must now begin, that this is where the work starts. It can't be like this. But that's as far as I'm concerned. I'll take a point of view. This has been a meritful discussion of the activities of the authorities, mainly the shortcomings that exist there. But one thing bothers me is that I have not found something very serious either here or in previous years' reports: the exchange of information or rather the lack of information. At worst, if the authorities do not exchange information, it may even lead to the death of a person. As an example of this, we have the murder of a child a few years ago, a very sad case. The information did not change ownership between the authorities. After all, here in Parliament over the last few years, we have made a great deal of different legislation in which different authorities have either the duty or the right to provide information to another authority. We are talking about criminal matters where crime has already taken place, but above all we are talking about crime prevention. It will then be very important for the information to be exchanged from one authority to another. Or when we talk about administrative matters, firearms and driving licences, we prevent even serious accidents and, of course, crimes at best. So the information has to go. But what's the problem? According to my information, the authorities in Finland are currently interpreting the law in a very, very different way. It may be easier if there is an obligation, a clear obligation in law to exchange information. But when it has the right to provide information, according to the information I have received, this interpretation is very varied. In my opinion, this – of course this is now the annual report of last year – would probably be the place to explain how information is transferred from one authority to another, when at least, according to my information, there is no more than this. Because it is a very serious matter if we cannot, or our authorities cannot, prevent a crime or a serious incident when the information has been provided by another authority and it cannot reach the competent authority, this cannot be the case. I would therefore like to make a reservation that there is any possibility of such a study being carried out here, which, at best, would perhaps have the effect of developing legislation in this house or then developing guidelines for the authorities to make this exchange of information work well and, above all, fairly throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u32	Mr. Speaker! Mr Rossi and Mr Tolvanen have just drawn attention to the same subject to which I myself am trying to make a statement. This division of labour between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice is unclear because of a lack of law. That is why, after many years of haste, this should really be achieved. I've been a lawyer for 20 years. In practice, I could see how normal citizens in general are not well aware of the nature of the work of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman, which is often considered to be some form of extra redress. Very often, when they have received a perfectly legitimate answer from these bodies, they come to the office to wonder and ask that, now that this has not changed, there has been no position on compensation and so on. So the law would clarify the division of labour between these institutions, it would also allow very good information to be given to Finnish citizens about what, how and how matters are dealt with in these institutions, so that there would be such a vain wish that it would be an extra means of redress, in which one can still appeal to change the material decision. I thank the Ombudsman for the speed with which matters are dealt with. It is a very good achievement in passing through such a number, on average in three months to make a decision. It deserves great commendation and should continue to be a goal. Only a person with legal certainty and a knowledge of his rights, it is an important pillar of society, and that is why these institutions are precisely:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u33	President! Indeed, this hard report shows once again the importance of the rule of law in the institution of the Ombudsman. Yes, the fine language is explained by the fact that processing times have been cut back a lot, especially during a time when the number of complaints has increased — thanks to the ease when they can be made by e-mail. This is by no means the case in all countries. I remember when the Constitutional Committee was on a foreign trip during the last parliamentary term, and we were told that the complaints would have to be sent by Pekka's post in the old-fashioned way in order to deal with them. In the past, I myself was very critical of this, because such e-mail letters have perhaps been sent on a rather light basis during the late evening in a sensitive state of mind and have then been interpreted as complaints — or perhaps so — but my position changed dramatically when a minor child from a child welfare institution contacted the Ombudsman’s office. I don't think this kid would have been able to put an actual official complaint in the mail. When we have talked about the division of labour, I will ask this issue of division of labour from a different perspective. When the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the assistant ombudsmen seems quite reasonable and appropriate, I ask: now that the assistant ombudsman has changed, are there any plans to amend the division of duties between the ombudsman and the assistant ombudsmen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u34	Mr President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for the report and its presentation and also for the important work done in favour of the Finnish rule of law and its citizens. Mr Heinonen's speech dealt with one point which has been mentioned here in the Ombudsman's report, namely a bill aimed at increasing the safety of the transport of prisoners so that, in principle, the entire group of prisoners in transit could have been bound by bundles or handcuffs during transport. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued an opinion on this matter, and why it was concluded that such a law cannot be enacted: an individual prisoner who proves to be dangerous — when this has been assessed — can be bound, and in some transport where all prisoners have been assessed as dangerous, then, individually, all of these can be bound, and thus safety can be guaranteed. This was the subject of a rather long debate and consultation with various experts in the Constitutional Committee and it was concluded that there are no sufficient grounds for limiting the individual freedom of movement of a prisoner by handcuffing more than is necessary and taking into account the situation in Finland with regard to these transports of prisoners and the experience of their safe running and the risks that can be estimated, so it was seen that it can be restricted but only if there is a sufficient reason and if necessary. This type of debate took place in the Constitutional Committee. Secondly, I would also like to return to this issue of this division of labour between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, between these two supreme judicial bodies. This has been dealt with in the reports of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the basis of these reports and also in the context of the report by the Chancellor of Justice, and we have also asked about Mr Jonka's vision of this issue when he has been before the committee and, of course, it is a little confusing that his view is a different one, he does not see significant problems in the current division of labour situation, and I think that this is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not called for or demanded or signaled that this change must be made quickly. But I believe that when this issue is raised, we will consider carefully what is necessary and what is wise. And, of course, it is also a question of resources and perhaps, above all, of dealings with the citizen in order to deal smoothly with his case, so that it is as clear and consistent as possible and that decisions on the same type of matter are also consistent with one another. Very important objectives, which I am sure will be signed by all — certainly also on the side of the Attorney General’s Office. But the Chancellor of Justice is changing, and I am sure that will at least bring a new debate on this issue. Mr President! The second question, which has not been raised and may not be mentioned — I have not read this new report carefully, the Ombudsman's report: We are also changing the situation in such a way that we have intelligence legislation coming up and the various intelligence supervisory institutions associated with it are on the way. According to the proposal, the Intelligence Supervisor would be placed in the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor as a separate department and with its own staff. In addition to that, there is parliamentary control, which has been considered important. Of course, the way it is done is still open, as is everything. These proposals have not yet been discussed by the Parliament, they are in the opinion. But I would be interested to ask the Ombudsman in this connection: What does this situation look like for the Supreme Ruler? How should this new intelligence control system be set up in relation to the top law enforcement officers in this situation? It has also been expressed in a debate that it might be clear, however, that the highest judicial authorities would also monitor this intelligence activity when this new intelligence legislation came into force and in practice. Things are open in many ways, and we will certainly receive information about this from the consultation. But if there is a chance of saying something about this now in this connection, I would be interested. Then, Mr President, to this speech by Mr Sakslin in this report: He talks about freedom of speech, there was a little discussion here. After all, freedom of expression is a very important, fundamental political right and, of course, the right of every citizen — the right to express himself, also to express his opinion in a way that may offend or irritate or hurt someone else. But freedom of speech has limits. After all, the Criminal Code has criminalised, defined as a crime, including incitement to incitement against the people, and we know that there have also been convictions for this. The article is neither empty nor vain, but by applying it the court has created a limit on what is possible within the sphere of freedom of expression and what is not. So the legislation works in that respect. The latest debate on freedom of expression concerns hate speech. This concept of hate speech was also discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last season, and the Council of Europe has discussed this issue. Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin draws attention to this. In his speech, he also refers to the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When it comes to authorities or researchers or decision-makers, perhaps including journalists, hate speech can deliberately threaten the freedom of expression of these people — scientists, journalists, decision-makers, officials, officials — and in this way may also threaten freedom of science and research. And it is, of course, a very big issue, and the question is that such hate speech should not be accepted but must be combated in various ways and addressed when it appears, while at the same time preserving freedom of expression as far as possible. In the latest debate, in connection with the Finnish People's Party Assembly in Jyväskylä, efforts have been made to draw the line between freedom of expression and racism. The President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, has stated that everyone has the right to an opinion, to the opinion that immigration must be restricted. Such an opinion must be allowed, its opinion can be expressed, it is part of freedom of expression, freedom of opinion. But the stigmatisation of people who come here as despicable people is, on the other hand, reprehensible racism. Your opinion can be said, but the stigmatisation of people as despicable people is reprehensible racism. That is why the commitment of parties to combat racism is not an insult to freedom of expression. It is the defence of human rights, of humanity, that we commit ourselves to combating racism. Mr President! Here are a few questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u35	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Ombudsman for this report and its presentation. This section, which describes fundamental and human rights and their shortcomings and improvements, in this paragraph 3.5, contains shortcomings in the area of child protection and child protection. Yes, with a very serious mind, we should all read the text in it, namely that the general lack of resources for the protection of the local authorities and the low number of posts, especially the number of qualified social workers, the lack of availability and high turnover, undermine the quality of child protection services. According to the Ombudsman, the supervision of child welfare care is insufficient and the municipal child welfare authorities are not sufficiently informed about the conditions and treatment of children. It also says that regional government agencies do not have sufficient resources to carry out inspections. This is indeed a very heavy text, and the experience we have had over the years on this subject should have been learned. I would therefore like to ask how the Ombudsman could come up with the solutions, that with what miracle this can now be improved. It is also a question of the availability of social workers and certainly of their remuneration, of how to get them into positions, and also of how to get them into posts, so if there is a shortage of resources, how to do this is to be improved. I am aware that as early as January, a health care person has filed a child protection report and, even in May, no response had been received. In other words, this is probably just the tip of the iceberg, which comes to the Ombudsman's attention as complaints, and that is certainly the real situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u36	Finally, Mr Biaudet, and then the Ombudsman — and here is Mr Mäkipää’s speech — then Mr Mäkipää and then the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u37	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Ombudsman for this very good report, which is in fact very approachable and can be read in part or in pieces. I hope it will be well used, because there are a lot of things here that will oblige us parliamentarians to act. In fact, I would like to draw the same attention to the fact that the Brister och förbättringar i fråga om respekten för de grundläggande fri- och ragtigheterna, now listed since 2013, is commendable because I have this in Swedish.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u38	Mr President! It's very brief. Here, when I was browsing, there was this social services and the elderly units, that it is known in a living life that doctors are quite good there, but there is no need for physical therapy for customers and especially for older customers, and so is the lack of outdoor activity when it is said that especially in the winter, but it is very inadequate even during the summer. And then we also mention these client management plans, that they are not well prepared in all respects, that it should be necessary for them to be carried out and also for the family to be involved, that they should be able to safely leave their loved ones in the facility. And it is also important, humanly speaking, that when you get old yourself and need diapers, for example, that they are changed often enough. Similarly, when these long - term sufferers are present, they are not just lying down in one position, but are turned and greased as needed to avoid breaking the skin. Then we must also consider how such persons who are mentally ill are mentally ill, mentally retarded, and how they can express themselves that they are being treated well. One thing that is very bad is that many times these older customers are being treated too hard. Is it, then, that there are not enough staff? This particular case of the Turun Cupitta was indeed a terrible read, that it was considered bad and then treated just for resounding. But it is good that these are being addressed. Of course, it would be a good idea not to report the verification visits in advance. But this is what I saw, because I couldn't get past this. We've got some good sightings here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u39	Mr President! Sometimes I had to attend another meeting, it may be that the matter has already been answered. But I know that Mr Heinonen was raising the case mentioned here in the report, where the Ombudsman's side intervened in the fact that, as I recall, handcuffs had been placed on everyone during transport in Vantaa in order to ensure the safety of transport, and there was no individual consideration of the risk of escape of each prisoner and of any other risk separately. The Ombudsman drew attention to the fact that the procedure was not the right one. The Government then sought to correct this situation according to what the Parliament had required, and suggested that, in an exceptional situation, handcuffs could be put on all those in the same transport for a short period of time — and now I read directly from the section of the Government’s proposal — ‘if necessary’ — not ‘necessary’, ‘necessary’, ‘necessary’, ‘necessary’, but ‘necessary’ — ‘in order to protect the safety of the prisoner or other person or to preserve the safety of transport because of the large number of transport carried, exceptional traffic conditions or other comparable reasons’. In other words, the government suggested to Parliament that if it is necessary to protect the lives of other prisoners or other persons involved in the transport, apparently the guards, then handcuffs can be put on all those in the same transport, even if, on the basis of individual judgment, it would not be possible to conclude, for example, that there is a danger of escape. This unanimous government proposal was sent to the Constitutional Committee and the Constitutional Committee considered this proposal to be unconstitutional in Finland. In the opinion of the Constitutional Committee... — Now, President, I will continue with the toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u46	Mr President! I very much regret the fact that the noun 'cage' I used at the time in a short debate has given Mr Zyskowicz such a great deal of emotion — I very much regret my choice of words. Of course, the correct term would have been 'departed': there is a car in which everyone has their own secure compartment, where they sit in safety belts and are safe from both the external evil world and the people who are close by, if that happens to be the case. So I don't see any problem with this anymore. In rural conditions, for example in Eastern Finland, where the defendant is being taken to the District Court, he is being delivered by a Volkswagen passenger car with the Transporter brand — a small advertisement allowing Ben Zyskowicz, as an accurate representative, to make no further assessment of the signature’s choice of words in this matter. It is normally delivered when the prisoner is taken somewhere, and it is a safe way to export, and there is no problem. This problem, which Mr Zyskowicz is very concerned about, has now been resolved and I see that the world has moved forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u47	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, I believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs still believes that the police also have their human rights. When dealing with this issue in the Constitutional Committee, I asked the experts that when prisoners are being transported, is it really the case that the doors of that truck are not locked and I was told that they are locked? Running away isn't easy. In a speech I just made, I said that it is possible to bind prisoners during transport where this is necessary. The only question is whether or not to make an individual assessment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that an individual assessment should be carried out, that everyone should know what the threat is and then be bound. If this is done by an individual assessment and everything is then bound, then there are no risks in that respect. The problem was simply that if an overall assessment — no individual assessment — was made, well, now there is such transportation and everything is placed in bundles, then there goes the limit, it would be exceeded. That is what this is all about, this fine-tuning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u48	Mr. Speaker! What Mr Hoskonen said about cars and their signs is certainly true, but the Constitutional Committee does not make such an assessment. The Constitutional Committee will assess the relationship between the proposed act and the Finnish Constitution. And Mr. Kantola, that explanation is not satisfactory. Because the government argued that everything can only be bound when it is necessary — i.e. necessary — to protect the safety of the prisoner or other person. Do you understand? That if there are four old men, then all four can be handcuffed if it is necessary. It was a government proposal, and then the circumstances were told: maintaining the safety of transport in a large number of transports — I do not know whether four are large or small — I do not know how much is being exported at one time — because of exceptional traffic conditions — if you have to stand on a road site for a long time, there is a greater risk of escape — or other similar reasons. The government further suggested that the tying should not continue longer than is necessary. The limit was that, if necessary, we could handcuff everyone, for example four. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided that it could not. No, this is against the Constitution. They can only be put in such a way that each man is considered separately. When this government proposal, in the light of the Ombudsman's comment, began from the point of view that such an overall consideration of the entire transport team may sometimes have to be made and there may be a situation where, for example, there are five transportable and there are exceptional traffic conditions and others, and it is estimated that it is necessary to secure the life and life, then you decided that no stovelettas at least for those prisoners may be handcuffed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u49	Mr President! Yes, they can all be bound if it is necessary when individual consideration has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u51	Mr. Speaker! This was the law in force: on the basis of individual consideration, handcuffs could be placed on every man. Now, on the basis of a unanimous statement from Parliament, the government has stated that it must be possible to put in place even when there are exceptional circumstances — there are many to transport, there are exceptional traffic conditions, for example, there is a long-term stop-off somewhere, or there is another reason similar to these — and that it must not be extended beyond what is necessary. This was the change, Mr Kantola. It's just the change the government made. In your opinion, the fact that it is necessary to protect the safety of the prisoner, the security of the guard, the life and the life is not sufficient to allow these prisoners to be handcuffed. Well, then, what is sufficient reason? Of course, the fact that everyone is given individual consideration. But when this was the case, in certain necessary situations where other people’s lives and lives may be involved, this individual assessment would not have to be carried out. There may be an overall situation in which there are many people to transport, with traffic jams or with other circumstances comparable to these, and in which the protection of life and life requires that all those in the same transport be protected. Is that how little it weighs on the lives and lives of these others compared to the fact that the prisoner does not have to wear handcuffs, that you decided that the government's proposal is against the Finnish Constitution?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u52	Mr President! In short, just enough for Mr Zyskowicz's strong argument that, just as Mr Kantola mentioned, this individual consideration is always made. But if the four men mentioned by Mr Zyskowicz are to be brought to trial, for example, at the District Court, that individual procedure is extremely fast. The prison guards and the prison authorities know the people who are there. It does not mean a seminar of the week where people sit and wonder whether these people need handcuffs or not. I'm sure it'll happen in a few seconds, and that's it. If necessary, persons may then be handcuffed if safety so requires. I don't think being smart with that is a very good thing. Of course, now that there is a strong debate on freedom of expression in the context of the Ombudsman's report, in the name of freedom of expression, this debate should be allowed, but I do not see a big problem here. And these modern means of transport, which are already in use in large prisons, and, of course, in rural conditions police cars, there is no problem. Of course, the fact that human rights are respected and enforced applies to the least human being of all and to the most valuable person of all. That's where equality is perfect. I don't see any problem here. I would like this to be a matter of some peace and quiet at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u53	Mr President! Now here's a glass of water. I admire the practicality of Mr Hoskose and I do not doubt his description of living life. But the Constitutional Committee received an article that wanted to protect the human rights of the prisoner, the jailer, those people, the most important of which is the right to life, the right to health, the right to safety. And in order to protect the human rights of these people, the government unanimously stated, on the basis of a unanimous statement from Parliament, that in these exceptional circumstances there would be no need for individual consideration for each prisoner, if this binding, that is to say handcuffs, is necessary — and I shall continue to stress the word 'necessary' — to protect the safety of the prisoner or of any other person or to preserve the safety of transport. I will not comment on how long it would have taken in practice in different situations and what kind of cages or compartments are now considered satisfactory. The Ombudsman will certainly check that the cages are such that they meet all the requirements. I would like to draw attention to this aspect of principle. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will receive an article saying that all these five men can be handcuffed if it is necessary to protect the lives and health of others. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers the human rights of these prisoners, Mr Hoskonen, so important that such an article should be regarded as contrary to the Finnish Constitution. And this was the unanimous decision of the Constitutional Committee, by consulting experts of course, and again, on the basis of important expert opinions, that such an act would be contrary to the Finnish Constitution. Think for yourself: The Finnish Constitution forbids the whole group to be handcuffed even if it is necessary
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u54	Now the Ombudsman may have three minutes. This is not a legal question, so it is also possible to stretch this time limit a little bit. But let's get out of here in three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u55	Mr President! I would like to thank you for these speeches and for the lively debate. There were some speeches here with direct questions to the Ombudsman. At least Mr Hoskonen asked whether the Ombudsman's Office had sufficient resources when there were about 5,000 complaints a year. I would say that this number of cases has sufficient resources to deal with complaints, and one of the key reasons for this is the fact that Parliament amended the Ombudsman’s law in 2011, which gave the Ombudsman a margin of discretion in the investigation of complaints. So now we can consider these matters and allocate resources to things where the Ombudsman can actually do something, and then we can decide to deal with those that cannot be done. So I'd say there's enough resources for that. But then, of course, there is everything else to do, and perhaps the most important of all is these new special tasks and the carrying out of inspections or visits, and there is really no limit to the need for resources. That with these resources we can do more than a hundred inspections a year, but that's all we can do. This is a question of which, among other things, this monitoring body of the UN Convention against Torture has now drawn attention in a very recent report and suspected that the Ombudsman would not have sufficient resources to carry out these inspections. Then there was this division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. I am delighted that many representatives were in favour of clarifying the development of this division of labour. In my speech in that report, I have presented its current state of affairs and all the problems that exist in the current state, as well as these opportunities for development. That I may not go into it more, they are recorded there, and I really hope that this development will move forward. Mr Tolvanen then raised this problem of exchange of information between the authorities and wondered whether there should be a broader explanation of these problems and whether perhaps the Ombudsman could do this. This is admittedly one such problem, and it is now the case that this data protection also exists between the authorities, that is to say, there are quite strict conditions laid down in the Publicity Act when an authority can disclose confidential information to another authority and, if you would say so in principle, there must be quite clear legal provisions about it. This is the kind of thing we may have difficulty in doing any kind of comprehensive study, but we have been exposed to the fact that every year when we have someone like this basic and human rights-related theme, we have one of these ideas had been the cooperation of the authorities and one of its elements precisely this exchange of information between the authorities. That through this kind of theme this could get us somewhere along the way solved. In other words, we will raise these theme-related issues with every single inspection, regardless of what the subject is. Mr Kivelä then asked about the division of duties between the Ombudsman and assistant ombudsmen, not the Chancellor and the Ombudsman, but the Ombudsman and assistant ombudsmen, as we now have a new assistant ombudsman. Indeed, we have the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman decided by the Ombudsman. I've been thinking, now that I'm 1.10. Pasi Pölönen will start there, we will continue with the current division of labour, i.e. those tasks that belonged to the Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Pa drinker, are also well suited for the new Assistant Ombudsman, Mr Hölönen. Then my term of office is coming to an end at the turn of the year and at Maija Sakslin next year, as I recall, from the beginning of March. That when these elections have taken place, then those who will then be able to consider reforming the division of labour. Mr President! Can I go on? [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u58	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 10/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u59	Mr President! This proposal, too, is about spirit and life, but also about the environment. The Government’s proposal implements the requirements of the EU Ship Recycling Regulation at national level. The Hong Kong Convention of 2001 on safe ship recycling is in the background. The agreement has only been signed by five countries at this stage, but in the right direction we are going. The Committee on the Environment considers this to be justified that Finland is also involved in ratifying and making these legislative changes to the extent necessary — some minor changes. These changes have no material economic impact on Finland. This is a question of international cooperation, including the EU's activities, but essentially of life, life and the environment. Large ships are recycled in some countries under very poor conditions, such as Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, China, Turkey, where 90% of these large vessels reach the end of their lives. It is good that we recycle, that there is nothing bad or reprehensible in itself; on the contrary, it is good that we recycle, but how it is done is the question. The problem here is that the safety situation in these dismantling plants is often quite unreasonable — almost slave-like conditions — and then, from an environmental point of view, there are arrangements or arrangements that do not exist. With these words a very good government proposal, and I think the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy was unanimous without a greater debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u60	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 10/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u61	Mr President! There is a government proposal for a centre of expertise in the fight against hybrid threats in Europe. Preparation of the Centre for the Prevention of Hybrid Threats was launched last November and 14 countries participated in it. Since then, in April of this year, a memorandum of understanding has been signed by Finland, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, France, Germany and the United States, namely nine countries. The centre would operate in Helsinki and operate in a network manner, and the work should start in September this year. This will be led by a steering group with one member from each of the participating countries. In addition, a secretariat and, in due course, a chair shall be appointed to the Centre. The added value of the Centre is the development of new forms of cooperation through expert networks. The aim is also to help increase resilience, i.e. the resilience of societies. The Centre is expected to provide valuable information for safety and preparedness work, as well as to enhance mutual trust and exchange of information. The Centre’s task is to raise awareness of hybrid threats and the vulnerabilities of societies that can be exploited in hybrid operations. The Centre shall conduct strategic dialogue, research, training, consultation and practical exercises aimed at improving the capacity to combat hybrid threats. Hybrid threats are not just military: online propaganda, cyber espionage and data sabotage, cyber attacks to critical infrastructure and information impact. As a result of the host role, Finland’s contacts with NATO and the United States on hybrid issues have also increased significantly. The activities of the Centre shall be financed by annual contributions from Member States, voluntary contributions and other revenue approved by the Centre. The annual costs are relatively low, i.e. around EUR 2 million. This year's costs will be financed in full as a contribution from Finland, and next year's costs for Finland have been estimated at just over EUR 700000, with the same level of government participation fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u62	Mr President! This centre of expertise in the fight against hybrid threats in Europe, which is now coming to Finland and Helsinki, is a very important institution, despite the small size and the limited resources that this centre is going to have. As a representative In his own speech, Mäkipää described, about EUR 2 million, it is not much. But it is extremely important that nations, particularly the nations of an open society, prepare for hybrid threats as a threat to the future. They are already here today, as we know, to influence through different social media, with various press releases, which are not necessarily true. That is what we have heard recently: the term 'alternative facts' has been used, among other things in the United States, to influence public opinion and create uncertainty in stable countries. This method has been used in many countries of the world today with devastating consequences. It is a good thing that Finland has this hybrid centre of expertise, which will then start to study these issues and prepare the Member States to ensure that such hybrid threats do not become reality. From Finland’s point of view, we are living in a time where, as an open society, of course, and above all as a major country of high technology, this hybrid expertise is at a very good level. We are certainly not the best at it, but when we put together this knowledge of all the countries involved and then develop more security in these countries, we will certainly go further. It is worth remembering, however, when the House has talked about the use of the Internet in elections, for example, that a person could vote on the Internet: I think that, at least for my part, I do not think that this system is good because we have a very good, functioning electoral system in Finland and this procedure in which the ballot box is held is completely safe and foolproof and gives a reliable result rather than an external influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-14-ps-69.u63	Mr President! We cannot talk too much about safety today and emphasise its importance. When we talk about security, international cooperation and its importance will inevitably come to the fore. There are countless ways of having a hybrid effect, and it feels like there's going to be more of them all the time. There may be disinformation, as mentioned here, different kinds of influence, threats, acts of violence or threats. I look forward to the information that someone will take responsibility for the London skyscraper's fire. I hope it's just an accident, if that's what you can say. Perhaps today's unfortunate news about Finland is that, according to Helsingin Sanomat at least, the protection police tell us that the threat of terrorism has increased significantly in Finland and they estimate that 350 people in Finland are prone to acts that are close to terrorism or to such violent acts of terrorism.
