ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 24 October 2017. In the debate, Kari Uotila, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 24 October 2017 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Pia Viitanen Timo Haraka, has proposed that the bill be rejected. Pia Viitanen, supported by Timo Haraka, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives, in multiple form.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u3	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 2/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u11	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie, for his presentation. For two years as a member of the Constitutional Committee, I know that the President has done a good, proper job. That's what I want to thank you for. However, I cannot refrain from commenting on the concept of 'paperless' which came out of this speech. Yes, I am thinking of where the Finnish Government is going, that the correct term is "illegally present in the country". "Paperito" is a broader concept to me,which may include legal aspects,but where illegal in the country, thenin the Finnish language isillegal in the country,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to reserve replies with that button, and I would ask everyone who wishes to take part in this debate to register, and no one will be ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u15	Mr President! This Ombudsman's report reflects the cold policy which is currently being pursued in this country. We have such a cold policy that we are even beginning to question the human rights of our citizens. By the way, are you aware that, at the moment, because of savings, for example, our old people are living in a situation where the night nurse is treating 30 demented patients at the same time? The patients are on two different floors. If a civilised country in Finland can do this, I would say that the human rights of our elderly are questionable. For such a policy, we must dare say no. We must respect man, we must respect human life and we must also respect the elderly. Unfortunately, these cuts are a fact in this country. The care measures of the elderly do not care about that heavenly one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u16	Madam President! I think Mr. Tolppanen is a little off the hook right now. He really talks about something where, if you look at economic numbers only, during the last parliamentary term, when the demos were in the government, they cut the local government economy so drastically that it was only last year that EUR 400 million was made available to the government's finances. Your cuts in local government finances were billion-level cuts, i.e. billion-level cuts. Many municipalities were going bankrupt. After all, the municipality cannot go bankrupt, but there can be major financial difficulties, which will certainly have an impact on the municipal services you mentioned, Mr Tolppanen, and especially on the services of the elderly. I would like Mr Tolppanen to be a little more straightforward and to say how it is. Your surgeries, along with a few small percent surgery, were massive surgeries. This is something to remember. I hope, however, that we will be honest about this and say that elderly people need valuable care and that we must invest in it. But it doesn't go away because people forget what they're doing and they call a guy a bitch.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u17	Mr President! It's not about who's done it and what's done it. It is a question of how to treat the elderly at the moment, and at the moment they are treated in a way that does not have dignity. If this situation has come to pass, then this hall has a responsibility. It is the responsibility of this Chamber to treat people properly and to give them dignity. It is regrettable that at the moment more than half of the time left for the elderly in home care also goes to code entry and exit and to write reports on what has been done there. The fact is that our old people at home live in wet diapers and with cold food and there is no time to talk to anyone, and the fact that if one person sits on 30 people, the dignity of these 30 people will then be questionable. We have to defend it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u18	Madam President! It must be said to Mr Tolppa that these problems in the Ombudsman's report are all or almost all years old and are constantly being sought, of course, to improve the conditions of people in difficult situations. Of course, the view that this list, for example, was somehow born under the present regime is completely unfounded. Instead, the current government is moving forward with the reform of social security, which will improve the situation of the elderly and the disabled through this freedom of choice and its so-called personal budget. Why don't you ask patient and disability organizations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u21	Mr President! I am surprised by the speech made by the representative of the centre. They justify their own cuts by having been cut before. How do those old people who have genuinely trusted in this kind of rhetoric during the last term of government that when the Old Age Service Act comes, it will guarantee them certain things? Look at yourself in the mirror what you've done. You have made the old-age service law, which, during the last term of government, was brought about by hard work and force, started to weaken and now created a situation where the old-age service law was guaranteed before the old-age service law was enacted, at the time that created its need for the old-age service law. Look at yourself in the mirror, my good representative, and go to the airport and see what is really happening there in the lives of the elderly. For a moment we were able to improve the situation until this government came and did the weakening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u22	Mr President! It is very important that proper care for the elderly is discussed here and that there is concern that it is good, good-quality and decent, but it has nothing to do with this report by the Parliamentary Ombudsman if it is claimed in this Chamber that the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report says that this government is responsible for the management of human rights. This is a very wrong idea. We are all concerned about it and we will do our best to do so. As Mr Zyskowicz said here, that is why the reform of the social economy has been launched to improve this current situation. I think it would be a good idea if we were to discuss the Ombudsman's report in itself as a very good one, to stick to its content and to what has been raised there, and not now to go into this sort of opposition-government debate, because the concerns are certainly shared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u23	Mr President! I agree that Mr Lapintie has done a good job. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we are dealing with human rights. Of course, as a member of the Constitutional Committee itself, I hope that if you want to influence opinions or debate, then you should be there. In both of these committees' reports, I considered that not all parties there were very critical criticisms. Members of the Parliament's parliamentary group, who have shown what the Laplanders have said, have been present at all. So there could be an open debate and then not come here to judge what word is used. — And it is self-evident that if you are illegally in the country, you are illegally in the country. I think that was a very good speech. It covered these ten points, which are of constant concern, including care for the elderly and child protection. I find it embarrassing that we, in the rule of law, keep repeating these same problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u24	Mr President! The Ombudsman's report is very healthy for all of us. In addition to that — and perhaps now my target is Mrs Elon’s speech on the so-called ‘paperless’ — it deals with many of the problems and issues and substance, it also guides us as parliamentarians in what language is more pro-human rights. The Ombudsman speaks of so-called paperless and refers, for example, to a future problem, on page 121, where decisions to abolish reception facilities are likely to increase because more negative decisions have been taken on asylum seekers whose refusal to return to their countries of origin is not possible. That means that the situation is not that simple. Also this year there are more than 50 children whose reception facilities have been abolished. They're on the street, so to speak. We do not even have legislation that guarantees their human rights, their rights to health care,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u25	Mr President! It is certainly not possible to indicate a specific date from which our elderly care level would have collapsed or the decline would have begun. Unfortunately, it has been going on for a long time under a great many governments and, unfortunately, it has long been characterised by features that bring about the bankruptcy of a human being, so that it is not a credit to the human race. But this very matter, which began by Mr Elo, was linked to the concept of the undocumented, and, above all, when so many citizens feel distrust of immigration policy, yes, such euphemisms, the covert language, also contribute to it and deepen it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u26	Mr President! This euphemism has come into common language since the recommendation of the United Nations General Assembly in 1975.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u29	Madam President! Let us try to make this clear. "Paperless" is a general concept which includes both persons who are legally in the country,in order to be illegal in the country. Therefore, if the general term 'paperless' is used, it does not yet say anything about the legal status of that person in relation to the right to be in the country. For example, in Helsinki, when a paperless clinic was set up to help these Bulgarian and Romanian citizens who have come to Finland to beg, they are not illegally present in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u32	Madam President! This question, to which the honourable Member referred just now, was based on what Mr Elo said here earlier, and which, in particular, was likely to confuse this concept when he said here that all the undocumented are illegal residents, and this is certainly not the case. President! I would like to continue the debate on care and care for the elderly: It is a very good thing that the Ombudsman's report provides us with more information on these matters, and in this context I would like to thank the Ombudsman, but also the committee which has dealt with the matter thoroughly. I am sure that the challenges are common, that we will not get away with, but it is also true that the weakening of the old-age service law this period has helped to reinforce the challenge of the old-age services that we have been aware of for a long time. The fact is also that the most vulnerable
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u33	Mr President! The issues of care and care for the elderly are very important; we all agree on that, but I would like to have a slightly more varied debate on the subject at times. We know quite clearly that there may be one side-by-side care facilities for the elderly, one with fewer staff and the other with more staff, but the one with fewer staff has excellent management and so on and the workers are involved in organising the work in that institution and they are better off there — both the staff are better off and the elderly are better off. This is not my invention, but there have been countless studies of it. By the way, this period has put a lot of money into developing informal care and developing family care. It is one of the most humane alternatives, especially for the insecure elderly, who, for example, suffer from the onset of memory sickness. However, I would like to see the things that have been tried to do now. These things have certainly not been born in two years; they are the result of a long development. But, of course, a great deal of effort is still needed on this side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u34	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for going through these ten points in great detail. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a momentary matter, but precisely the status quo. Since 2013, they have remained on the Ombudsman’s list, so everyone — this government and the previous one — has a place to look in the mirror and see how this has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u37	Mr President! I too am concerned that these issues have been with us for a long time and we have not found solutions to them — or will resolve them. But I am perhaps most concerned about the fact that there has been such an atmosphere, that even the Ombudsman's human rights expertise is directly challenged and that it is claimed that he has some truth about the language used. The Ombudsman's report specifically talks about so-called paperless people and puts in a large group of people who are paperless precisely because of our decisions by the authorities. There is also talk of a lack of access to legal aid, which may be linked to this situation. EU citizens may not be without a passport, but they are still discriminated against in their own country and do not have access to healthcare and we will continue to discriminate against them and we will not allow them to access our health care. It has nothing to do with having a passport. This is such a general description of,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u38	Mr President! I would like to return to this concept of 'paperless'. I think it's pretty synonyms for someone who doesn't have a legal residence permit here. It is based either on a negative asylum decision, a negative residence permit decision, an expired visa or an expired residence permit, or there is no application for a residence permit at all. But then there is the large group that can be equated with these conditions, that is, they are not, for example, covered by our social security system. Well, if you call them by what name, I don't think it's relevant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u41	Mr President! I do not regard the question of concepts as irrelevant because they guide and define the framework in which we deal with a matter. When we talk about paperless, then we talk about underrights and human rights. When we talk about illegality, then we talk in the criminal circle and the questions settle in a completely different way. It is true that paperlessness is a concept of roofing, but so is the concept of roofing illegal immigration. For example, it talks about asylum seekers who, when they come here, are entitled to come and apply for asylum, even though they have crossed the border without any papers justifying it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u45	Mr President! After all, upholding human rights must be choices, and it must be the awareness of the reality of its situation — this Chamber, the situation outside this house. If something is not right, it has to be fixed and not defensive and look at the last term of government or the previous term of government and say that, well, that problem was then too, then neither do we — it can go that way. I hope that the representatives of the government parties listened carefully to the statement by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was also related to the rights of people with disabilities. It's a citizens' initiative, isn't it? "Not to be sold" was also firmly anchored in the ears of They are opposed to the provision of life-long services for people with disabilities through competitive tendering. It is not human and the EU would enable it not to do so. Now, please, at least correct this flaw, it is easy to correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u47	Madam President! Indeed, when municipalities provide services to their residents, we all, as decision-makers, understand that what is the municipality’s financial position is a decisive factor in what services exist in the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u53	Mr President! The quality of elderly services is a human rights issue, and it is sad if it is discussed primarily as an economic matter. The problem at the moment is that the old-age service law is not being complied with, and it has also been weakened in this period. At present there are elderly people living at home who are not in the right place at home and in their own home, and it may be that there is an almost bed-patient who is on their own for more than 10 hours a day, or the situation of home care is such that there is a nurse in 30 places on the evening shift and there is a time between 5 and 6 minutes for one customer. Everyone understands these everyday situations when they hear that this is no longer a decent life for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u54	Madam President! I will return to this debate on elderly services, and I agree with Mrs Paloniemi, for example, that we have a variety of places in Finland, but that is no reason, for example, to go downhill in the old age service law, even if it is said that personnel measurements or staff qualifications are required, that somewhere you can do without this kind of obligation better. Yes, legislation must be able to ensure that everyone keeps up with this development, and that is why I am very sad that this government has decided to weaken the law on the provision of services for the elderly, which has been historically achieved in the last period. The fact is, too, that this government, through its own actions, has weakened the financial position of those who are already in the most vulnerable position. Here I am referring specifically to index freezes, which continue to eat up the possibility of older people, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u55	Madam President! In the previous speech, I have already said that the reform of social security and the freedom of choice associated with it will strengthen the situation of the elderly and, for example, the disabled, above all through this personal budget. The difficulties in tendering, to which Mr Guzenina has clearly referred, will be reduced by the fact that the municipality itself will no longer be able to compete but will be able to choose in different ways. The shortcomings in access to health services in this list have also been rightly highlighted. When we go into the system of freedom of choice in basic health care with the social welfare reform, if it certainly corrects something, it will correct problems in accessibility. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u58	One last response to Mr Guzenina and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u59	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz painted a very beautiful picture of the service voucher model and the personal budget. I would now like to ask whether the representatives of the centre in the Chamber agree that this model of service vouchers will, once and for all, remove the problems of services for the elderly and services for the disabled and health centres and all the others where we have problems, or do you perhaps see that there is still work to be done on the model which has now been sent to the consultation and which, as I understand it, is at least a little chafing the centre people at this stage in the form that the proposal has taken off for the consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u61	Madam President! The Ombudsman's report is very impressive and good, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mrs Lapintie, for an excellent and good introduction. It was wonderful to listen to and very analytical text. The fact that the Ombudsman's report again highlights the partial overlap between the duties of Parliament's Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice is, in my view, a small miracle, because this matter has been discussed for a long time. I would now very much like us to get into a situation on a beautiful day — I do not know whether it is the way of the legislation to clarify this issue, but in any event, when they go partly in the same direction — which would settle this thoroughly and peacefully. This was not an accusation to anyone, not in any way, but an earnest desire to be clear about this matter so that both authorities could be able to do their own work and the offices of both authorities could concentrate on the essentials in their own work. It is a liberating feeling when you know that there is a limited site and it is not such an endless sinking swamp. From experience I know that, from my previous work history, quite well. Then there are the ten points mentioned in the Ombudsman's report, a couple of them. The debate on the management of the elderly is a very good thing, and it is precisely when the Ombudsman has drawn attention to it that Parliament is also absolutely required. In the reform of social welfare and health care, it should be borne in mind that the quality of the elderly services and their level are guaranteed in this country. But, ladies and gentlemen, the municipal economy is also behind this. Although we legislate here 28 fine laws, they have nothing to do with them if the municipality is unable to fulfil its obligations. There is a need for performing hands, good facilities, high-quality equipment and trained staff, of course, and for the staff to be able to do their job — the staff who are exhausted cannot do it. That is why, in my opinion, we legislators should also be honest when we talk about central government finances and, at the same time, public finances, then, of course, we are also talking about local government finances. The bond between the state and the municipality is extremely tight. In other words, when public finances are maintained, we are also talking about good services for the elderly. You can take Tampere for example. When you build huge colosses, fine hotels, ice halls, raids and other large structures worth hundreds, even thousands of millions, then if someone complains in the same city that some service is weak, then it is up to the Tampere decision-makers — I would stress: it is up to local decision-makers — to put these issues in the right order of priority, not in the parliament but in the locality. There are many examples of such places in Finland. So let's prioritize the use of money, where the money is spent. Child welfare is an important issue. Protecting a small child and solving difficult situations in his or her life and supporting families are important issues. The lack of public authority resources in a number of municipalities is an important point, and the Ombudsman has rightly drawn attention to it. Then, Mr President, one more comment about these delays in the trial. This has always been the case in the Ombudsman's report year after year. It is truly sad that some things stay for years and years, and a person hangs on a loose hang when he waits for the final decision of his own cause. It can affect both his mood and be an economically unreasonably heavy strain. This would mean that the judiciary would continue to improve its efficiency. For example, we could get those little things out of there as efficiently and quickly as possible. One of the main tasks of this government has been the dismantling of red tape, specifically that decisions coming from authorities, for example, different licensing issues and many others of this kind should be dealt with quickly. It does not make any sense for a construction project to be delayed seven years after the hearings at different courts and yet it is a matter of building a small industrial building or a permit for the extraction of soil or something else. Between 7 and 8 years of such a rudimentary nature that happens to a person who, for example, is an entrepreneur who offers jobs to many people — it is quite unreasonable. If anyone says that these cases may not exist, I have seen many of them personally. The longest delay in the authority’s opinion on a permit took 12 years. I know this feels utopia, but it's terrible. Similarly, in my municipality of Ilomants, when fiber optics were built, applications for permission to subdue one of the watercourses — the cable to the lake bottom, which certainly does not shake this creation there or here — for eight months stood on the table of an engineer in Tampere, on the table of the Regional State Administrative Agency. For eight months, 30 men were waiting for permission to finish the job. Of course it was completed, and those men did not wait there for that permission, but this only describes this folly that Finland has gone to. The work of an authority is more important than the matter itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u64	Mr President! The Ombudsman's statement is sad to read. It is extremely sad that the Ombudsman must intervene in such matters in his opinion, as this list of ten points, for example, now says. It must also have been extremely difficult for the committee to deal with, because people have feelings in any case, at least there should be politicians too. But if we have to record such things year after year, something must happen in this hall, something more than counting pennies that is in and out of the trunk. The fact is that a poor economy or poverty does not justify anyone taking human rights away from someone else. Unfortunately, this government has done things that contribute to such development. If we know that the median income in Finland is 3300 and the average earnings are 3400 but still a full-time working person earns between 2000 and 2500 euros and a large proportion of those working less than 1800 euros a month, then something is wrong. These figures already tell us that we do have money in this country — but in what pocket? It would be worth transferring this money to the point of giving people a decent life. It is truly shocking that within two weeks I have read the title: "A 77-year-old carer killed because of fatigue." "In his 20s, he killed his wife." "Old overdose." These are the issues we need to address. We have a very small people, and when we know that we have more than a million people living below the poverty line, about 900,000 people, it is truly shocking. According to certain statistics, we live in such a shocking part as 500,000 people working below the poverty line. Where is the equality of this country? Where is the humanity of this country? Where is the justification for us still standing straight and saying that we live in a civilized country in Finland? This kind of activity is not, you know, the act of a civilized state. It simply is not. These are issues that need to be addressed. The daily lives of families with children must be taken into account, the daily lives of students, pensioners and the unemployed. What's been done this season? Reduced, weakened conditions for the lives of all these marginalised people and people at risk of exclusion. That's where everyone should feel a stab in their heart. Those who work should also have the backbone to pay their taxes and pay them in such a way that they are neither circumvented nor recycled nor taken to the black economy. These are the issues that I believe should be discussed in this Chamber. But I would like to thank you once again for what the committee has done for this and for the way you have dealt with this. The paper itself is good, there is nothing in it, but its contents are so shockingly sad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u65	Madam President! First of all, it is great that there is an Ombudsman's system in Finland. The fact that we also have a system of chancellors of justice calls for an examination, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has rightly stated in its own report once again and referring to the Ombudsman's position once again. It certainly wonders why this issue of division of labour has not moved forward. There seems to be things that everyone is in favour of, but which are still not moving forward. I'm sure there's also things no one's in favour of, and yet they're moving forward. I would not wish this division of labour issue were in a series that everyone is in favour of, but it is not moving forward. Now that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has again, for the second time or even for the third time, been debating this matter over the years, taken a position that there must be clarity in this system, I believe that the Ministry of Justice should now take action. As a Member of Parliament, I expect the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice to take this now so that they do not just go on to clarify this issue, but to bring it through a legislative amendment, so that we can then change and develop the law on the division of duties of the law enforcement agencies so that it becomes clear. Otherwise, this parliamentary term has been very successful in moving forward. Here's the matter of substance, too. It is a division of tasks that will make this administrative burden easier, but perhaps even more important is the fact that citizens will have a clearer picture of what I am complaining about if, for example, things are not working under the control of legislation, and where my complaints will have to be taken forward. In this respect, I believe that the Ombudsman's office is precisely the best civil route and the role of the Chancellor of Justice again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u66	Mr President! What kind of country Finland is when we can afford so many — we are a prosperous country, one of the wealthiest — but when it comes to children, the elderly and the disabled and improving their situation, it is often said that we cannot afford them. I very much hope, everyone in this Chamber, both in the government parties and in the opposition, that if you have not read this Ombudsman's report, then I hope you have at least listened to what Mr Lapintie, the expert chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, raised here in his own speech. The rights of the elderly, the shortcomings in child protection, the rights of people with disabilities and many others — we need to focus on these. We are the Finnish Parliament and the human rights aspects of the decisions we take here must be sustainable. And at the moment, when we look at the state of this beloved country of ours, the number of shortcomings here in this time — with this wealth with which Finland is equipped — I wonder that we will not be able to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u67	Mr President! With regard to the problems raised by the Ombudsman, which remain the same year after year, I would like to highlight the shortcomings of self-determination for both the elderly and the disabled. It is incomprehensible that this fundamental human rights issue is still not being realised in a civilised society. We are currently in the process of preparing legislation on self-determination in the Ministry. On the other hand, I am very sad that there is a need for law in this area when this should be quite clear to all of us. But I myself am the Chairman of the Memory Union, and for years following this matter up, I do think that we need this law. However, the law alone is not enough, because it is also a matter of values for society and for people and workers, and in particular of skills and skills, but perhaps and hopefully it will provide a legal basis for remedying this issue and also for changing the cultures of care communities. The second thing I would like to raise is the accessibility and accessibility of services, on which the Ombudsman also took a stand. Accessibility means not only accessibility, but accessibility for all senses and also ease of use for digital services, for example. Why on earth do we find it so difficult to understand that an accessible society is a good society for all and easily accessible services are easily accessible services for all? Taking this into account from the start of planning, an accessible and accessible environment and the construction of services will not cost any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u68	Mr President! I would like to make four comments on Parliament's Ombudsman's report, which, in part, also came in the speech of the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Lapintie: The first is that I find it quite remarkable that year after year these complaints are very high — now 4922 — but The Ombudsman’s Office has been able to make decisions about the same amount and the target dates for the proceedings that have been set have been well achieved. This report can be read in more detail, but I find this to be remarkable with satisfaction. The second point I would like to raise is the establishment of a judicial office, which was already a little on the agenda. I think it is an excellent thing that the Ministry of Justice has now stated that the creation of this agency will be proposed. Several studies have been carried out over the years, and for years we have been wondering whether this should be established. This is the last time I've seen you. In the Justice State Seminar, this emerged that if we want to develop the rule of law, this is one step forward in this work. It is a good thing that we are moving forward. As a third point, I would like to raise the issue of division of labour: I hope that this will now move forward in the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman. This has been well highlighted here in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Fourthly, I would like to thank the Social Insurance Institution that, although there was such a unfortunate situation that, as the treatment of income support was transferred, the processing times were prolonged — which was extremely regrettable for the citizens — and they have done very well to pay this compensation themselves. Of this, the Social Insurance Institution, Kela must be commended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u69	Mr President! Not only do we have an institution of ombudsmen, but we have an institution which is very efficient, professionally, with a high level of professional ethics, plus it rightly also enjoys a high degree of appreciation, but the existence of such an institution as an effective institution is part of a human civilisation. The previous speaker referred to the high number of complaints. Surely there are many of these complaints, if I may say so, which are perhaps in this electronic world during the weekend in a sensitive state of mind, which may not be so serious. But all flowers must have flowers. As President Mao Tse-tung has already said, I think it is customary in some countries for complaints sent by traditional pecan mail not to be dealt with, but we have, for example, an example from a few years ago that the child from the Child Welfare Institute made an electronic contact with the Ombudsman and that led to action. However, this certainly defends its place, even though there are mild phenomena around it. But to this concept of time, which is therefore a strange concept: there is a lot and little at the same time, and it wears out quickly and slowly. In this House and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we should still be trying to get this done before the summer recess, and at some point it was close to Christmas. That was certainly not a good situation when the next report
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u70	Mr President! I thought I might raise a topical question on the basis of this report, because it is of course very important that we should be able to deal with the Ombudsman's tasks and work on the basis of the report as in the past, and there is certainly very much scope for teaching, but of course it would be very important for us to be able to prevent and tackle these problems even when they are on top or when they threaten to expand. At the moment, asylum seekers' decisions are increasing and it is expected that they will start to become very many and possibly also negative decisions. In view of the point where the Ombudsman also draws attention to the limitation of legal aid and its potentially very harmful consequences, we should pay attention to the processes of the authorities. Over the last few years, perhaps especially this year, a great deal of information has been gathered from organisations that actually deal with asylum applications — a large number of, indeed a large number of information from reception centres, including people who are not in the legal profession themselves — that these processing processes are inadequate and that decisions are of poor quality and that they have deteriorated and sometimes even think that it is dealing with someone else's issue than what it is about in the decision-making process itself. Of course, Migri's work is impossible for anyone else to check, because it is, of course, confidential personal matters of people. But it is also very difficult to assume that these people, who do not know the Finnish systems and who do not have trust and who are in a very vulnerable position, especially in the case of asylum seekers who have come alone from minors, would also be able to lodge complaints. Also, if you think about our system of human rights, which is built on the fact that you go through all the Finnish legal channels and then you can only complain to international institutions, for example, it sits very badly in the lives of these people, who are in a very weak situation, who are in a weak position, who have limited resources and who know their rights very badly. I would therefore like to be able to appeal to the Ombudsman in this debate to consider whether Migriin could actually carry out such a legality check, which could actually go through these decisions within a certain period of time and see what the errors are and how they could be corrected before really bad decisions are made on these people and whether something can be learned from these processes. Transparency is, of course, always one way of checking the activities of the authorities, but it is based on a complaint which is very slow and poor and inadequate when it comes to people in very vulnerable situations who are unable to exercise their own rights and whose access to legal aid is now considerably restricted. For example, a number of interviews have pointed out that somewhere in Migri's decision-makers say that they do not make such mini-licences, extension permits for young minors, and then somewhere they say that, unfortunately, little has happened, that we did not yet know and so on. This gives a very bad picture of what the guidelines for decisions are and how they are made. Is there any reason to fear, for example, that minors will, knowingly, be granted such short residence permits so that they can be converted when they are of age? I know that the resources are limited, but I am pleased that the Ombudsman is currently doing much more of these own-initiative checks and is acting as a deterrent. I myself think that there is also a great need at the moment to examine it so that we can also rely on our official processes when it comes to asylum seekers or foreign affairs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u71	Madam President! I would now like to draw attention to the item on page 75 of the report entitled "Limitments in the development of legal service plans and special care programmes for people with disabilities". I would like to raise two points: firstly, indifference and, secondly, deliberate under-resourcement. I will take an example from my hometown of Espoo. Here Mr Hoskonen mentioned that the municipalities do not have the money to make these service contracts and assessments, and even if there is money to make those assessments, then there is no money to produce those services. Unfortunately, in my hometown of Espoo — it is good that there are still a few Espoan MPs in the Chamber — last year 2016 the city’s surplus was 62 million, in 2015, 21 million, in 2014, more than 20 million, was still more than 30 million — and yet, despite the comments of our city’s inspection board, in disability services these service plans and special care programmes are not done for more than a third of people in the disability service. I find this situation extremely worrying, and I commend the Ombudsman's intervention in this matter. Here on page 76 there is one such text: "The Ombudsman considered that the municipality had delayed the development of a service plan more than a year after the service plan had been drawn up in breach of the Act on Social Services and the Act on Disability Services." We have the situation that, although the municipality is wealthy, some other things are still seen as more important than putting this rather low-money issue in order. Why do I want to raise this issue so strongly? Perhaps one may feel that what is the wisdom and the idea that this is the way the condition of his own hometown is brought out. Well, the reason is that I have been sitting in the council for 17 years and I have been talking about this for six years now and it is still not right, so I ask whether it is time to bring sanctions and clear compensation obligations into the law if, among other things, these service contracts for people with disabilities are not in order, not even this real assessment is needed. I do not know whether it is up to us to intervene as to whether it is up to the Minister of Justice to intervene in it, but it is now unreasonable for the Ombudsman to comment on these same issues year after year. When my close friends, who are not so excited about politics, follow this situation, they ask if you do not now have the power to make laws and decisions to make these things right. Every time I try to get here, I have to tell you, that's what I thought, too. Now that I'm here, I'm reading these reports and wondering if we have power or if we don't have power. That is what I would like to have an honest debate on. For those of you who have been sitting here for perhaps four seasons, the fifth season: how are these things going in practice? This cannot go on like this for these people who are unable to help themselves and are therefore entirely dependent on an outside guardian. Then laws are passed, instructions are given to municipalities and, unfortunately, municipalities are deliberately sub-resourced to their indifference, and they are not allowed to do the work required by the law. I hope for a good debate, and once again I thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for his excellent presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u72	Madam President! A few comments on this debate. Mr Hoskonen seemed to have had a very negative picture of my home town in Tampere, and he stressed how the potential weaknesses in social services were caused by the city’s major plumbing. However, I would like to remind you in this Chamber that we should not make such populist generalisations, because the biggest investments in growing urban areas are precisely those that will help to keep those urban areas on the surface. I find it extraordinary that if, for example, the state has cut the central government shares of Tampere by 4 tax percentage points over the last seven years, then the social challenges or congestion of services, such as the tram or other projects aimed at improving the urban structure, would be the result of the city, which is the leading city of migration gain in Finland, for example among unemployed young adults. I would like to welcome Mr Hoskosen to Tampere, and then together we can go over these issues. I'd be happy to present our city's projects to him as well. Fortunately, the country has actively participated in them, including under the leadership of the Hoskonen Party, the centre. That's good. A few other comments: Representative Salmon mentioned the Court of Justice. I would like to see that, when we hope that a judicial office can be built in Finland, we will see that, yesterday, we were dealing here with the legislation relating to the courts, that we are not taking rash decisions which are in fact part of the evaluation of this new agency. Finally, I would like to emphasise the evaluation of the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service Migri, which Mr Biaudet raised in his excellent speech. I think it would be sensible for the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service, for asylum seekers who have arrived in Finland, for the legitimacy of the Finnish political system and for the operation of this house in general, for us to carry out an evaluation in Migri. I'm sure it would be in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u73	Madam President! There has been quite a lot of updating here as to why the problems are recurring year after year, the Ombudsman writes about them and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs reports properly and seriously pay attention to them. There has also been talk here of what the timetable is. So a little delay will have to be made, but I believe that even though this report concerns 2016, these problems have not been very much corrected when the report is written for 2017. Although some of the problems are in the hands of the municipalities, and there must be a variety of measures to put the municipalities under control, such as sanctions or more guidance, we are currently in the process of discussing next year's budget here in Parliament. We have the government's proposal in our hands, and the government's proposal contains either good or bad issues in relation to these problems, which have been highlighted in the Ombudsman's report. We are making options for each of us, alternative budgets for the government proposal, and when we needed to discuss how to move forward here, I would assume that the Ombudsman's report and the report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are in some way a budget statement, a budget statement, and as such it should be taken into account when next year's budget is still being discussed here this autumn at the end of the year and when we are making alternative budgets in the opposition. Let us not forget these comments and concerns when we have the opportunity to comment on them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u74	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on this important subject. The Ombudsman's report is in many ways an annual summation of where our country is lying and what kind of issues deserve attention. The committee's report has given particular importance to the division of duties in the area of judicial control, and this is something that deserves attention. After all, we only have three countries in Europe, Finland and Sweden, and Estonia, which have the two highest law enforcement officers, and in other European countries one of the highest law enforcement officers is capable of doing so. The problem is that we really have the same powers and similar tasks for the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, and the elimination or reduction of these overlapping tasks has not been addressed here over the years, despite the comments and wishes expressed, and this issue has not been clarified. I really hope that this issue will finally move forward and that, given that our system, both in terms of legislation and in terms of judicial supervision at all, is being considered and this has taken place in the current debate, this will become a strong enough boost and a strong enough boost to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u75	Mr President! In my previous speeches, I raised this concern, which was also raised by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in his speech. In other words, since 2013, the Ombudsman has been dealing mainly with the same problems, of which I am now strongly emphasising the situation and treatment of the elderly, the treatment of child protection and child matters, and the rights and limitations of people with disabilities. In his speech, Mr Laukkanen pointed out how municipalities sub-resource, for example, and partly because of this, there are problems in the care of the elderly, problems in the care of the disabled. There is, as this report shows, binding without the support of the legislation. This applies to hundreds of thousands of people. Nevertheless, certain representatives, such as Mr Biaudet, may be concerned about more than that, but the only thing you raised in your speech was the situation of asylum seekers. And yet it seems in many debates that we have had these same problems since 2013, as the Parliamentary Ombudsman says, and we have not been able to get them right. You said that we should find out — a direct quote, if I just got it right — 'what are the mistakes'. So the assumption is that there are mistakes, there are a lot of mistakes, and the impression is that the Finnish Immigration Service has now made terrible mistakes and now we have to find them. Then, we could trust the authorities. Don't you trust the authorities? The starting point is again, let's do some bad work. One citizen listened to the Parliamentary Question Time. He was a well-returned pensioner. He said to me that 'when I listen to the Greens' — he did not talk about the RKP then — 'they are concerned about the legal protection of asylum seekers, that is what they are talking about. There must be no error, the system must be complete and unblemished. What about the rest of us? We are all in a situation of drowning paper, misheard. What about the rest of us? None of them are so worried about us." They feel that this is unfair. And I'm sure it doesn't make any sense if I think I'm working for the Finnish Immigration Service, that here the starting point is, what are the mistakes, now they just have to be looked for, there are those mistakes. I then drew attention to the fact that I correctly understood Mr Biaudet's speech that there are now wrong and perhaps ineffective remedies and that we should now have different remedies. You said something more and that the system is slow. Well, in any case, although you have not said so in a word, that is how I understood it, and I myself wonder that we all have these same remedies, the same legal certainty. It is also equal that we do not put people at a disadvantage in that way. Those who have worked here their age and paid taxes have been waiting at least since 2013 for Parliament to pay attention to care for the elderly, child protection and the affairs of the disabled. We still have the elderly in the wrong institutions, they are bound, their freedom is restricted. They do not necessarily have relatives, no guardian, no legal aid, no legal protection, not even their own voice. They may not be able to speak, they have lost their memory. That is why I would like us to remember that we are here for the interests of those people who have been waiting for their rights for years in this society and yet have done a long life's work in Finland and have, for example, fallen ill. I would really like to bring this message, which this pensioner said to me: whose business is being carried out there, the whole world or asylum seekers. It is good for us to remember that we are primarily here to drive Finnish and Finnish affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u76	Mr President! I am sorry to have to ask for the floor, but it seems necessary to reply. I am glad, Mr Meri, that you brought up the elderly and the children. They're all important things. Human rights are not something that can be measured in such a way that the human rights of one person are excluded from the other, but concern each individual. And for that reason, perhaps when it comes to the rights of refugees, the situation is different in that sense than when we talk about care for the elderly in general, but it is not necessarily different if we talk about the difficult situation of one elderly person, they can probably be just as important. But, of course, when we talk about refugees, that persecution and the danger may even be that it can be a death sentence if bad or wrong decisions are taken. Now I wanted to tell you that there have been very many reports about people who work with these asylum seekers. Since we received a large number of asylum seekers at one time and the staff had to be increased, there was such experience that there have been mistakes, and even in Migri it has been said that there have been mistakes. That's why it might be important to go through them like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u77	Mr President! In the Ombudsman's report, in these opening statements, Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin deals with the issue of freedom of expression. In his speech he starts with a celebration held in Stockholm less than a year ago, together with the Swedes, in Parliament, namely the 250th anniversary of the regulation on freedom of the press. After all, under Swedish rule, the regulation on freedom of the press was born when Finland was part of Sweden, and Anders Chydenius, the man of Ostrobothnia, played an important role in the creation of this regulation on freedom of the press. This regulation on freedom of the press has been regarded as the world’s first law of publicity — a pretty handsome book from Sweden, and why not from Finland, at that time. Although this regulation on freedom of the press was not in force for a very long time. The political cycles in then Sweden changed rapidly, and the freedom of the press regulation was not able to have an impact for very long on itself, but a significant head start in 1766. This was celebrated in Sweden, and the delegation of the Finnish Constitutional Committee was also involved in those celebrations, and the atmosphere of the occasion was somewhat confused by the fact that at the same time news came from Finland asking whether the Prime Minister of Finland had started to press the Finnish Broadcasting Company, the media, for one reason or another, and Finland suddenly appeared as a slightly different kind of society in terms of freedom of expression. Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin deals with the issue of freedom of expression and at the same time considers the role of independent media as part of democracy. Both freedom of expression as a fundamental right, as we do in Article 12 of the Constitution, and independent media go hand in hand in hand in a certain way: both are essential for the development and stability of the democratic rule of law and democracy. In his article, in his speech, Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin also deals with the issue of hate speech, which is a difficult term. Even today, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was discussing the report on democracy policy, we discovered that this terminology is inaccurate and that the concept of hate speech is used a lot without being legally defined.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u81	Mr Lapintie has the last floor. Then the Ombudsman will be able to take part if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u82	I really meant to thank you, Madam President, for the lively debate that took place in this Chamber. That is where I counted 40 speeches and an hour and a half, and Parliament's Ombudsman Petri The Iceman has also been present all this time. In my opinion, it is proof of the importance that is attached to the institution of the Ombudsman and I hope that further pressure will be placed on this good work done by the Ombudsman's Office. This work is indeed to be commended and it is to be pointed forward in this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In that sense, we are waiting for this year's report, which can then be discussed again. So, thanks to all the participants.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u83	And Mr Jääskeläinen, please. Do you think 10 minutes is all right? We won't mind if we cross.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u84	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a good and positive report and I would also like to thank Mrs Annika. Lapintie for a good speech. I am pleased that in its report the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now been very strongly in favour of this development of the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. I hope that this project will now move forward. I am also very pleased that the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the speech by Mr Lapintie have paid particular attention to the section on shortcomings and improvements in the implementation of fundamental and human rights. This type of period has been included in the report since 2009 and was actually taken up at the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. it has described typical or long-standing shortcomings in the implementation of fundamental and human rights. Since 2013, this section has been presented in the form of ten key Finnish fundamental and human rights problems. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this list is not an exhaustive list of fundamental and human rights problems in Finland, but this ten list is based on the very findings made in the Ombudsman's activities. The Ombudsman’s activities are based on complaints and, in turn, often relate to individual cases. This is why, for example, such broader phenomena, such as racism and hate speech and such phenomena, are not very much reflected in the Ombudsman's activities. Secondly, the Ombudsman’s powers are limited to the authorities and those carrying out the public task. That is why such problems, which are central to the activities of private parties, are said even if violence against women, including this type of thing, does not show up very much in the Ombudsman's activities. Still, we have a number of special representatives. Many things and many of the problems associated with them are directed to special representatives and then appear less on the Ombudsman's table. In other words, these are the main problems raised in the Ombudsman's activities. Some of these problems are of such a nature that, if they are realistic now, they will probably never be quite all right. Just think of the shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly, there will probably always be some problems and shortcomings. But there is much to be done. Some of these problems can be put in order by increasing and targeting resources and some of them are related to shortcomings in legislation and can be addressed by developing legislation. After all, here we are at the moment on the table, I think there is still the Constitutional Committee, Finland's National Fundamental and Human Rights Action Programme, whether it was for 2017-2019. I think that there are many good points in that programme, and if this programme were to be implemented as planned, there would be an improvement in many of the problems that are on this list of ten. But many of these are long - term, and of course it is not realistic to expect that all of these things can be quickly put in place in full. I would also like to thank you for all the other speeches that have been made in this Chamber. I am very pleased that this has raised such a lively debate here. We'll be there. Within the Ombudsman's Office, to assess these speeches and their content and to consider whether they may give rise to action on our part. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u85	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 1/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u86	Madam President! This is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the report by the Chancellor of Justice last year, and this report is rather concise. There are three main points: firstly, the principles of good lawmaking, secondly, the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman, and secondly, the supervision of the activities of authorised legal advisers. These first two points are those which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has often and emphatically pointed out, and that is why they are now being dealt with fairly closely in this report. But maybe I'll open these things up a little bit. First of all, the principles of good lawmaking. This report by the Chancellor of Justice contains Mr Jonka's speech, in which he is going through this very extensive drafting of the law. Similarly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also discussed this principle of good lawmaking in its Opinion 19/2016 on the report of the Chancellor of Justice and the Economic Plan for several years. Perhaps from that point of view — I saw and collected that there are many pages of these opinions from the Constitutional Committee, and I would now summarise them to just a few views on the drafting of legislation. With regard to the drafting of legislation, the most important work is done in ministries. This has been repeatedly stated and underlined by both the Attorney General's Office and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All these principles have also been clearly stated in the Law Preparation Guide, the ideal model of good lawmaking, which is in use in the Government. In particular, in the previous year, the Chancellor of Justice's report explained the role of the Heads of State or Government in this good drafting of legislation, and, as the committee has said and the Attorney General's Office has said, the opportunities for the Chancellor of Justice to intervene will come precisely at the stage of preparation in the ministries. In previous years, the reports and opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been written on this issue in greater detail, and it has pointed out that, in fact, the possibilities for the Office of the Chancellor of Justice to intervene when the matter is being discussed at the Council of State are very limited, since this agenda comes only one day or two before, in other words, those principles of good lawmaking are there at the preparatory stage of the ministry. In addition to failing or failing to follow a good way of drafting the law at that stage, at a later stage those mistakes may not be easy to correct, but should then go into a whole new preparation. The point I would also like to raise about the principle of good lawmaking is that one part of it involves a consultation before the law can be presented to the Government or brought to Parliament. The purpose of organising such a consultation is, of course, to clarify and take into account the problems raised during its consultation and then to make the necessary corrections. "The Constitutional Affairs Committee"—to recall directly from the opinion19/2016, which is also referred to in today's The committee has repeatedly stressed that it is always appropriate to include in a government proposal a section entitled ‘Relationship with the Constitution and the Order’ if the legislative proposals contain provisions which need to be assessed on their constitutionality. This should be done as a whole, even if the explanatory statement of the proposal has otherwise dealt with constitutional matters. In the case of border cases, it is more appropriate to include rather than exclude a period of regulation in the proposal. The order of the Government's proposal also provides Parliament with important information, which will make a key assessment of the need to deal with the proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs." In other words, this period of justification in the Government proposal is the government’s assessment that the law can be brought into parliament and that it is in accordance with the Constitution. When there, here and there is a debate on the monitoring of constitutionality and a need for a lawyer here in Parliament to clarify the constitutionality, this government proposal and the order of the government are the lawyer and the public view of why the government's proposal is in accordance with the Constitution. As we are all well aware, last year the Constitutional Committee issued 70 opinions, including those with one hand to count those with significant constitutional problems so that it had to be clearly stated that there were problems at an early stage so big that it had to be re-prepared. In this regard, I would like to take an example of Chancellor Jonka's text, the report by the Attorney General for 2016, which is on page 19. He explains the way in which the Chancellor of Justice conducts this preliminary control and states that 'if, despite the proposed corrections, there have been constitutionally critical points in the proposal, we have, in other words, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice,'required them to be openly stated in the explanatory statement and a recommendation to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to review the matter'. This is what the government usually does, and it's a good thing. It is very valuable that these arguments of the government's proposals show the duubios that the government has. Then comes such a startling, frightening point in this Chancellor’s story of tension. It says here that "from time to time there will be situations in which discussions will have to be held with the Minister's rapporteur on the need for a statement of reasons on the basis of which the Constitutional Committee should be judged". He takes a few examples. The second is a significant increase in the amount of the offence and the daily penalty, Government proposal 1/2016. Jonkka writes: "I was in contact with the ministry concerned by telephone. I was critical of the key..." Then he brings up those problems. As another example, he raises the issue of pension aid to certain unemployed people of a certain age under certain conditions and states that 'in both cases it was argued that the proposal was urgent and that the examination of the Constitutional Committee would be delayed. Despite opposition, both were sent to the Constitutional Committee for review." In other words, this point in the Chancellor's report makes it clear that it is certainly still necessary to train government officials and perhaps ministers and parliamentarians as to when the matter will come before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. After all, if there are any doubts about the constitutionality of the draft law, then it must be brought to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in accordance with our current constitution and also in accordance with Parliament's working rules, and also in accordance with the draft law of the ministries. Against this background, it seems rather startling that there has been an appeal for urgency, especially since we know that the Constitutional Committee will not deal with matters any longer than it has to do and resolve matters quickly and effectively. The second part is the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman. This same issue has also been addressed in the previous case, that of the Ombudsman, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also pointed out the need to clarify the matter precisely because of these overlaps. The system of the two highest judicial supervisors is neither the most effective nor the most appropriate for citizens and society, and it gives a reason for this to be clarified. In this second report, on the Ombudsman's report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that the division of tasks can be regulated by ordinary law without reducing the powers of both of them in the area of judicial review, since the Chancellor of Justice has already been relieved, among other things, of the obligation to enforce the law in matters relating to persons who have lost their liberty. In other words, if this law is to be developed, that way harm, problems, and dangers can be eliminated. In particular, these problems of administrative waste of time, lack of awareness among complainants and the public, as well as the consistency and consistency of decision-making practice have become more apparent due to the segregation and specialisation of the Ombudsman and Chancellor. Specialisation has been added to the new Ombudsman’s specific tasks under international agreements. For example, the role of the national supervisory body under the UN Convention against Torture and the tasks under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities have increased the Ombudsman's role. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the elimination of duplication will enable both legal controllers to further develop their activities in the case groups that would be assigned to them. Sharing tasks would also provide an opportunity to develop the focus of the Chancellor of Justice's work in the direction of independent judicial services supporting the Government's legislative work. And, as I pointed out in that first point, or in the principles of lawmaking, there seems to be a need for it. In other words, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out that it has already taken a number of positions on this division of labour and is pressing for this clarification. While there is a long tradition in various areas of law enforcement that should be respected, law enforcement must also live in time and its development should be considered without prejudice. Then, lastly, this supervision of the activities of authorised legal advisers. In this regard, the Chancellor of Justice has stated that the supervision of legal aiders should be clarified and, therefore, that this should be addressed, inter alia, as regards the eligibility of applicants for authorisation and the right of appeal of the Chancellor of Justice. The Attorney General's Office has also made a proposal to the Ministry of Justice, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it important that this issue be raised. Then, as a final point, with regard to these licensed legal counsels: The questions of access to legal assistance are relevant for the sake of a fair trial and guarantees of good governance provided for in the Constitution, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to the quality of legal assistance. We therefore believe that the Ministry of Justice should take steps to correct the problem raised by this Chancellor of Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u87	Madam President! The chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Lapintie, went over this issue extensively, and the Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to the level of legislative drafting. It must of course be said that these reforms have now been exceptionally large reforms, which perhaps would not have been necessary if the systems had been better developed in smaller parts of the time, and perhaps it would be good if we had better means in advance to ensure that the proposals and plans are in line with the Constitution. Of course, these remedies have been in the legislation for as long as I have been here. For at least that 10 years, I remember that the level of legislation has been reasonably similar and that there has been a need for corrections in committees, other than constitutional remedies, almost in the motion than in the proposal, and I therefore very much welcome the fact that the Minister for Justice: Mr Häkkänen has now taken steps to remedy this. This very week he suggested that a school of lawmaking should be considered in Finland, which would therefore be aimed specifically at the lawmakers and rapporteurs of the Government, but as Mr Lapintie, the chairman of the committee, pointed out, it would probably be quite welcome for everyone of us who has not read the law, for example. I am sure that this type of education is something I am always prepared to receive every day. Let us hope that when Minister Häkkänen takes forward this idea of law-making school for the lawmakers and rapporteurs of the Government, we could also have such additional training for us as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u88	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the chairman of the committee. For Lapland, an excellent presentation. The best school for MPs is membership of the Constitutional Committee. I myself have been there for three parliamentary years and I say that it gives the basis for being able to understand things in a completely different way, precisely from what is needed in drafting the law. The starting point is that the government's proposals must be prepared in accordance with the Constitution, and I believe that the Chancellor of Justice, for example, can be used to this end. During my ministerial term, I myself have used, negotiated and checked out what is possible, which is not possible. But instead, we are in a situation where society is becoming increasingly complicated and, in a way, what needs to be regulated is easily created by how it is done so as to safeguard the fundamental rights of people under the Constitution and so on. It will be even more challenging in the future. During my ministerial term, I myself have had to reflect on the relationship between the Finnish Constitution and the European Union legislation and the regulations that will be ready for us, which will as such enter into force in Finland. There are cases in which, for example, there has been no protection of property in the way in which the Finnish Constitution provides for the protection of property. This relates to these agricultural aid schemes, where payment entitlements could only be transferred from the landowner to the farmer. After all, it was a long process and I myself was involved in it as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry at the time. Instead of the debate that has now taken place in this country, the criticism of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the need to have a new body in it: yes, this current system works best. The only thing that matters now is that lawmakers have sufficient knowledge and knowledge of how laws should be written in order to comply with the Finnish Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u89	Madam Speaker! Thank you, Mr Lapintie, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. I've been turning that thing around with him myself. I would like to draw particular attention to the availability and quality of public legal assistance. A system of lawyers and permit lawyers was created in Finland some years ago. At that time, the Parliament started out that we had reason to have a two-tier system. We have reason to have lawyers who are supervised by their own system of attorney control. There are permit lawyers who are supervised by their own board of licensed right-hand assistants. It is good that this dual model will be developed in the future, and it is not reasonable that it should be brought under the same umbrella. Then, when that criticism was directed specifically at the fact that the issue of remuneration, the arguing about it, is different for lawyers and licensing lawyers, this needs to be further developed. The second is the monitoring system. Licensing lawyers — and this is in due course in line with Parliament’s starting point — carry out more business than just legal services. There is a host, there is also all kinds of account office services and information activities. This model has been found to be good in the world, and there is no reason for Parliament to change this infrastructure in the future because powerful lawyers and judges would like it. It is good that we have an alternative system and high-quality lawyers on both sides.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u90	Mr. Speaker! Mr Heinonen raised the problems of drafting legislation in the past years. Indeed, these problems have also existed in the past. Both the report by the Chancellor of Justice and the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have stated that many legislative proposals are well prepared. Among other things, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have also highlighted and particularly praised the fact that the drafting of the law is good. Last week, as I recall, we said that the problems raised during the consultation had been well taken into account and corrected and that there were no constitutional problems in the law. Mr Anttila raised the EU dimension and it is true that it has become an entirely new addition to this Finnish system. Fortunately, we also have the opportunity, through a large committee, to influence the legislation that is being prepared. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also quite often — almost every week, once, twice, more often — taken a position on the EU legislation under preparation and delivered a statement to the large committee, which will then be able to take the matter forward. But, as Mrs Anttila said, it is not always enough. Finland is bound by the law of the European Union and, therefore, the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union also affect the way in which the Constitutional Committee interprets a particular government proposal. So, yes, when this decision was made at the time of the referendum, it is still reflected in Parliament's work that we are a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u91	Mr President! In recent discussions on the assessment of the constitutionality of draft laws, attention has also been paid to the way in which the Chancellor of Justice acts in the General Assembly of the Government as an assessor of the constitutionality of laws. It is worth noting that the Chancellor of Justice's report contains such a speech by the Chancellor of Justice, which is entitled 'Why has the Chancellor of Justice not made a comment in the General Assembly of the Government'. Once the Chancellor of Justice has been accused and approached and questioned, which is why he has not stopped the Government's legislative proposals in which he has found constitutional problems, we now have an answer in this report. According to his own report, the Chancellor of Justice does act in such a way that he will discuss legislative proposals with the ministries and then express his views, but he has not, for decades, used the most radical course of action, i.e. calling for a different opinion in the Minutes on the decision of the Council of State to state that this proposal is unconstitutional. In this way, we must also understand in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, according to the tradition of the Chancellor of Justice, we are going to pass on proposals that might give him a different view, but he believes that the legislative power belongs to Parliament, and that is why he is not going to stop these perhaps problematic legislative proposals, which are problematic from the point of view of the Constitution, in such a way as to require a different opinion in the Minutes. This is a good thing for us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take note of the fact that we have the last power of decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u92	Mr President! Just one more sentence to follow up. It follows from this, too, that the government's proposal must then state that it is also necessary to examine the matter in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and ask for an opinion. This is exactly how it works for me. That is why the draft law will not be stopped there because it will be referred to the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee for evaluation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u93	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u94	Mr President! The Government’s proposal under discussion is closely linked to the changes in the second phase of the Transport Services Act. However, the proposal has been separated from the other proposals as a separate whole, since the changes now being discussed are more urgent than the other parts. The proposal proposes to extend the area of competence of the Helsinki Region Transport Joint Municipal Authority, acting as the competent authority for public transport, to the municipalities of Siuntio and Tuusula from the beginning of 2018. One of the proposals relates to the reduction of the authorisation system for rail transport. In the Government proposal amending the Transport Services Act, it is proposed that those carrying out road safety tasks other than rolling stock should no longer be required to issue an authorisation, i.e. an endorsement, issued by the Authority. This amendment would amend the current transitional periods so that those currently engaged in road safety tasks on the railway system who would no longer be subject to the obligation to apply for a permit in the future would not be required to apply for a permit within the current transitional period. In addition, the proposal would clarify the rules of the Transport Services Act on the functioning of ticket and payment interfaces. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u95	Mr President! In this Government proposal 144 indeed draws attention to the licensing and certification practice of the railway system in the field of road safety, and this transition period, which is now being pursued, is now 29 October 2018. I think it is good in the sense that we now have enough time to deal with this whole bill in the course of next year and we will be able to combine these, avoid such unnecessary search for licences and certificates, and then, in fact, when it is dealt with by the locomotives and others, it will be brought into line. And here too many unnecessary committee meetings are avoided insofar as they are now being combined. This unnecessary authorisation and endorsement procedure will be deleted here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u96	Mr President! The municipalities of Tuusula and Siuntio are largely employment and services areas in Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. That is why it is very important to operate between them and that it should be smooth. In fact, the municipalities of Tuusula and Siuntio have applied for membership of HSL, and the board of HSL and the current HSL members have accepted membership. I would like to thank Minister Berner very much for bringing this to the House for decision, even though it is part of the so-called 'cycle of transport', which is the second part of the transport services of the law. But this will be brought here separately for our consideration — a very good thing. Surely this decision will make both municipalities more attractive to their territory as a residential area and will bring new residents and also rail traffic here in the capital region. Very good. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, when Siuntio's train shifts were reduced, there was a lot of debate on this issue, and thanks to Minister Berner that we are now at this stage. It has been done as the Minister promised at the time that the municipalities will now be able to enter HSL. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: now that this law is in force and then, in time, the regional reform will also come into effect, will the regional reform then have an impact on HSL's area of activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u97	Mr President! The change in the competent authority for public transport in Tuusula and Siuntio to this Helsinki Region Transport Joint Municipal Authority is in line with the wishes of the municipalities. That is why the government's proposal is very welcome. The service level and the travel chain, in particular where there are troops in the form of public transport, need to be strengthened and improved. A single ticket system in this HSL area is important. It makes it possible to organise municipal public transport in a more cost-effective way, and public transport can be organised on the basis of existing rail links, and the ticket product is consistent with all modes of transport, i.e. this integrated ticket system is particularly well-run. This therefore serves passenger transport, commuting, business and, in particular, it relies on this existing public transport, which is already in place. I also have with Mrs Torniainen the idea of regional reform and future public transport authorities in mind, along with this government's proposal. This proposal is a good one, but I understand that public transport will be in accordance with regional or regional reform in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u98	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Berner for the very effective preparation of matters, which will make the most of the opportunities offered by digitalisation. After all, at the heart of the reform of the law now under discussion is customer-oriented travel chain thinking through digitalisation. By pressing the button, the consumer can obtain different travel options from A to B and by pressing the button, and the same ticket that can be obtained from it will be accepted throughout the journey. This is an extremely important objective, and it is now being implemented, and it is precisely through the fact that digitalisation can be properly exploited and combined with these different travel needs. At the moment there is no legislation that would allow this to happen. We will find different tickets on the Internet, we will find different timetables, but now they will be connected to the service via this route. I hope that the committee will deal with this matter so that it can come into force, as is the case here, on 1 July next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u99	Mr President! This is a bit of a correction of this recently adopted law on transport services, the so-called 'bar one', with regard to the opening of the interfaces between these ticket and payment systems, and that is a good correction. It looks small, so a sentence is added here that the interface between ticket and payment systems must be opened without restrictive conditions. I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that this increase is critical to the promotion of our travel chain thinking and to the fact that, in future, different actors could cross-sell tickets to each other's systems. Even now there are indications on the ground that, when a strict regulation on the opening of interfaces is lacking, it has led to the market a little effort to keep other operators out of their own systems and to make things so difficult or difficult that others cannot sell those tickets. This will now open this up and create a free and equal playing field for anyone who wants to sell ticket chain services so that they have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u100	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kopra's speech: when he brought up this ticket interface so beautifully and how easy it will be in the future, I can't help but mention in this debate — when trains are very closely connected — that quite a lot of feedback is being made at the moment, Minister, that VR's sales of tickets in the middle of all digitalisation and so on are becoming increasingly difficult. You have to search far, you have to know how to buy them and then go to the other side to book places and everything else. Yes, I would like VR, at least as long as it serves passenger traffic on these tracks alone, to take this customer feedback seriously and ensure that tickets are easily received. For example, we have many people with reduced mobility who find it very difficult to leave the R-kiosk to get a ticket or from somewhere behind a very difficult road, but it should happen easily and preferably on the train. I hope that this message, too, will follow from this debate. I personally believe that in the future some actor will make a train where there will be another person on the ground — he will sell a ticket to a person who wants to travel on the train — and that will certainly be a competitive factor in passenger traffic in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u101	Mr President! I do have to support the comments made by Mr Kopra and Mr Heinonen. It is important to open the interfaces, to create new business. I would also like to support your comments on VR's recent reforms, and I will receive corresponding feedback on them. It seems strange to talk about how customer service improves when it actually disappears. Of course, the information systems in use on VR's side are quite old and it is probably possible to recreate them by something new, but I do believe that humanity is also needed. We could work together on ways to change this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u102	Mr President! I would just like to point out that just a few days ago one of my acquaintances was surprised to tell me that he had bought a train ticket from R-kiosk from Helsinki-Tampere,and he had been told that this price had been charged to the glove train. This acquaintance of mine had wondered how to have such a flag. Well, then it turned out that it was good enough for the local trains but not now for the trains that travel mainly between Tampere and Helsinki. So, for example, the fact that you get train tickets from R-kiosk is also that the people who sell those tickets at the kiosk may not know what they are selling.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u103	And the Minister has the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u104	Mr President! Thank you for these points of view and feedback. I would like to briefly answer these few questions. This proposal will not affect the HSL law, i.e. HSL will remain a functioning transport operator, as it is today. The regions will also be competent transport operators in the future. What has to do with this small change that Mr Kopra has raised, which is being made in the traffic cycle or in the law on transport services to phase one: it is really critical because it aims to ensure that the market remains open and that those in a dominant position cannot create their own markets around them. I will also pass on these greetings that have been made here in connection with the ticket systems for train traffic. I would also like to point out in this connection that when the law on transport services enters into force on 1 January, when it obliges open data interfaces, this will also apply to train traffic and VR. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u105	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u106	Mr President! A little less than a year ago, I presented to you the first phase of the Transport Services Act, which contained a number of proposals for reform. The essential information on transport services was presented to be imported in a uniform manner on open interfaces, so that we could also examine them in a coherent way and create a set of services. Finland also became an internationally quoted pioneer in creating new mobility services and a more sustainable transport system. This will provide people with more diverse mobility services and provide opportunities for Finnish companies acting as pioneers in foreign markets. Now I am presenting to you proposals for amendments to the second phase of the Transport Services Act, which we want to take further consideration of the transport system as a whole and bring together the fragmented provisions. The first stage concerned the road transport market, and in this second phase it is also proposed to bring maritime, aviation and rail market regulation under the same law. The biggest reform in this second phase concerns transport registers. We are bringing together a number of regulations on transport registers, and we are harmonising fragmented provisions on the use and transmission of register data. This is the ideal time for this now that we are implementing the EU General Data Protection Regulation. We want a register regulation that is transparent, provides a high level of data protection and enables the use of data in a modern way. That is why we are proposing the creation of a single transport register. The reform reflects the growing importance of data generated by digitalisation. The Finnish Transport Safety Agency will become an information authority more clearly. The reform will enable this authority to serve its customers more effectively, both private and business. From the point of view of natural persons, the regulation of registers will be simplified by bringing together fragmented regulation. Individuals will also have a better chance of managing the use of their skills. The so-called 'one-stop shop' principle is also being better implemented. The aim is to create new opportunities for other actors to use the information contained in the register, for example for the development of services. The new approach proposed in the proposal is in favour. This means that a person could allow a third party to deal on his behalf with his or her user accounts in different services. The proposal complements the information regulation in the first phase. With the first stage provisions facilitating the formation of individual one-off travel chains, the proposed second stage regulation aims to promote, for example, the provision of a monthly package of combined services. Overall, the aim of the information regulation of the Transport Services Act is to place the service user at the centre of the service user and thus to enable the formation of integrated travel chains from door to door. We want to make the use of mobility services as easy as possible. The movement of the muffled is a part of a good everyday life for everyone. At the same time, developing service models encourage a shift towards more environmentally friendly mobility. The proposal also includes proposals on licensing regulation and professional qualifications for different modes of transport. The Transport Safety Agency, Mr Trafi, would become more and more a licensing authority for all modes of transport when this proposal proposes that rail transport licensing should also be transferred to it in addition to its previously existing road and aviation licensing tasks. In rail transport, the main amendments concern staff qualifications. The qualification requirements for train drivers would comply with the Drivers Directive without additional national requirements, and the professional qualifications of the staff involved in road safety tasks in the rest of the railway system would be included in the operator safety management systems. Requirements for professional qualifications for bus and lorry drivers and social legislation on road transport are proposed to be transferred to the Transport Services Act. With regard to the professional qualifications of bus and lorry drivers, it has been suggested that the current system of training should be maintained. The planned transition from the education system to the experimental system was abandoned during the preparation process. The reform of vocational education and training, which is currently under implementation, has contributed to the fact that at this stage it was considered appropriate to examine the transition to the test system only later. It is also proposed to develop the maritime training system in line with international standards. Mr President! With the proposals of the second phase of the Transport Services Act, we will ensure that our regulation is consistent and that we remain at the forefront of the digital development of transport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u107	Mr President! We've been given phase two of the traffic cycle to deal with. The aim is to build a digital growth environment for the transport sector as well and to streamline regulations. The second phase of the transport cycle is therefore a clear step forward for the digitalisation of Finland, and in the transport sector it would take Finland to the forefront of the world after the reforms. The aim is to complement the first phase of the transport cycle previously approved to cover the entire transport system. This makes it possible to develop customer-oriented traffic as a service. The bill makes it possible to build different travel chains according to each individual mobility needs. Open interfaces and open data allow different service companies to combine travel services, such as a train, bus and taxi as customised door-to-door combinations. This, in turn, will enable the entire mobility system to be gradually transformed into a need-based and service-based system, reducing the need for own car ownership in many areas, for example. In fact, there is an order to reduce unnecessary driving. At present, 84% of passenger transport by road is carried out by passenger cars and households spend more than 15 billion on their own car and its use each year, even though the car stands on average 95 percent of its time in the yard or garage. This package of laws can also provide a high market potential for service companies, hopefully also for new domestic ones. We will hardly be able to bring about a revolution in the moment and, of course, the attitudes will not change immediately, but the work will be done in a long-term, gradual way. Therefore, for the development of the Finnish transport system, the reform is certainly to be welcomed. It guides many of us from driving to freedom of movement. This package of laws would also bring together the various transport regulations and registers at a single location in the Finnish Transport Agency, from which, in the spirit of open data, they can be used in a simpler and easier way. Big data opportunities are also significant. On the other hand, security challenges are real today, and an ambitious legislative package of this kind also obliges us to have a more ambitious data protection policy. In the case of data collection, registers and so on, particular attention must be paid to the privacy of users and to decentralised systems that are adequate for the overall security of society as a whole. In addition to security issues, this reform may require a redefinition of road safety as a whole. Mr President! The impact of the proposal is mainly indirect and is assessed by the Government as positive in its entirety. Promoting digitalisation and reducing the regulatory and administrative burden will reduce costs and thus reduce the price of mobility for consumers. Let us hope that this will happen. With regard to the cost implications, the opening of interfaces is particularly challenging for smaller companies, and we must ensure that the burden does not become excessive for them, so that we can have a truly diverse and well-functioning market. However, an ex ante assessment of the impact on such a broad package is challenging. We do not yet know what and how diverse service companies will be created in the sector, or how the Finnish people will eventually become enthusiastic or unenthusiastic about new kinds of mobility concepts. But for a lot of people, they love their own car. On the other hand, we are not now preparing legislation that is mandatory for the user, but, above all, legislation that will enable and create new ones. I think this is a good direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u108	Mr President! This government proposal is very heavy, and I am not just talking about the mass of almost 900 pages. The proposal brings together fragmented transport legislation as a whole, which in itself is to be welcomed. However, I will focus on the new creative element of this proposal, namely the reform of the processing of traffic data. There is a structural change going on in the transport sector, which compares with the arrival of tractors in Finnish fields, and I am not just talking about robot cars, although this law is also necessary for the new business models they enable. Transport, like virtually all other sectors of the economy, is becoming a platform economy service. And what does the platform economy mean? Data and intelligence used to analyse this data to collide service providers and users for the benefit of all parties. For example, a ride service Uber collides with people who offer and need a ride. Its real business, however, is the data generated as a by-product of these rides, which it not only uses to develop its own business but also sells at a good price. — Those terms and conditions for the use of electronic services should indeed be read carefully. Mr President! On Monday, Finlandia House launched Finland as one of the leading countries in the platform economy, Finland and Europe in general after having fallen far behind in the platform economy. But we still have strengths in Finland that allow Finland to return to its top jobs. One of these national leverages is the human capital of the Finnish authorities’ registers. The Government’s proposal is therefore based on maximising the use of traffic registers in particular. An obligation is being imposed on the Finnish Transport Agency not only to open up its own statistics and research but also to open up the data on the use of transport services received in such a way that they cannot be combined with individual citizens. The change of attitude to the traditional culture of depositing knowledge is enormous. Unfortunately, however, the availability of traffic data reserves is not optimal, for example, there are dozens of registers of transport agencies. Now these transport registers are being compiled into a single transport register managed by Trafi. That's the government's thanks. And, best of all, instead of building centralised platforms, the aim is to have decentralised but interoperable systems that communicate through open interfaces. There's a second thank you to the government for that. There are, of course, other requirements in terms of working together than open interfaces. Technical transparency alone is not enough if there are other barriers to the use of information, such as legislative barriers. These are the obstacles that this proposal is best designed to overcome. In addition, the standards to be used, anonymisation standards, vocabulary and definitions must be agreed. However, they should not be a regulatory issue, but if they are not agreed between the various authorities, the government must be prepared to intervene. The fact that the registers of Finnish authorities are good in international comparisons does not mean that their quality, such as timeliness, integrity and usability, should not be further developed. There is also a significant paradigm shift in the government's proposal, which I would like to see spread to non-transport legislation. In the past, where ownership of information has been emphasised, the focus is now on access to information. Companies and individuals are wanted to be protected from access to information about themselves, even if it is held by another operator. Chapter 3 of the draft law sets out in detail the rules on access to information, data protection and privacy, whether public open data, professional personal data as individual donations, disclosure of data as anonymised for research and innovation activities or the transfer of personal data from the public register for transport purposes, such as direct marketing of survey offices. The preparation of the proposal has also taken into account the EU Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and should therefore not have to be updated immediately next year. Mr President! Of course, in a detailed committee discussion, there may be some corrections to be made in the procedures for the transfer of traffic data, particularly with regard to personal data, the balance between the transparency of information and the protection of privacy is challenging. In fact, it would be a miracle if there were no work to be done on the fine-tuning power of the Committee on Transport and Communications in such a comprehensive and new proposal. I look forward to the expert hearings with a rare interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u109	Mr President, värderade Herr Talman! Regeringens proposition till lag om transportservice innehåller nödvändiga förändringar som krävs i utvecklingen mot mera moderna transportjänster. Jag väkomnar förslaget och att en helhetsomfattande lag även nu görs i Finland. Till exempel i Estland finns en lag om offentlig transport, som omfattar såväl vägtrafik, jänväg, luft- och sjöfart, som kom i kraft år 2003. Andra länder har också integrrat sina biljettbokningssystem för att öka interoperabiliteten. Communications ministers att det behövs öppen data och communication via öppna gränssnitt för att målen i lagen om transportservice ska nås. Det auri går hand i hand med linjen som finns inom banktjänster och implementationeringen av bland you give betalningstjänst direktivet som vi nu arbetar med i riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u110	Mr President! The services of mobility are undergoing a major change both in Finland and in the world. The government has worked hard to promote public transport, and efforts have also been made to tackle the reduction in transport emissions. Smooth travel chains are accessible to all, and digitalisation in particular has brought new gas to transport. Now there is a second phase of the Transport Services Act in Parliament, where some 900 pages of competence requirements, among other things, are going through very rigorously. All regulations on the qualifications and training of transport personnel will be brought together in the Transport Services Act, and the permits for road transport were mainly decided on in the first part of the Act in the early part of the year. So we are now going through the qualifications requirements for rail transport, maritime transport and aviation. Mr President! The world is changing, electrified, and digital services place us in a time when we are independent of time and place. The above representative of the plant spoke very interestingly about the platform economy, open data and data interfaces. They are opportunities for us, but we still have much to learn from them. In order to achieve the objectives of the Act, it is necessary to open up information and access through open interfaces. This was laid down particularly in the first part of the law. Now the process is being continued by obliging the Finnish Transport Agency to open data collected by its own services through the so-called open interface. Essential information on mobility services is, inter alia, the route, stop, schedule, price and part of the Holdings Available and Accessibility Information. These must be accessible through the connection to the information system and accessible to all. This second part now also includes air and maritime transport tickets, various types of mobility services such as vehicle rental services, various series and seasonal products and regulations on discounts. The provision of mobility services will also be facilitated by enabling the so-called 'yes'. Many have mentioned above that the government's proposal includes the establishment of a single transport register. So dozens of traffic registers are being brought together. Up to now, the traffic data collected by the authorities have been fragmented into ten different transport-related registers. The ten existing registers will be transferred to one single transport register. It makes it easier to do business and to do official work. The role of the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, Trafi, as the licensing and supervisory authority for traffic will be strengthened. In the future, it will grant centralised licences for the needs of both road transport, rail transport and air transport. So let's get our daily lives together. Mr President! The best thing about the Transport Services Act, in this second phase, is definitely that travel chain thinking takes a bigger leap. It is a very important one-stop principle in transport services. Its idea is to offer more individualised trips and travel packages suitable for people's different needs. In practice, this means more seamless cooperation between different modes of transport and the use of digitalisation to achieve it. A practical example of life: Many of us have used a variety of schedule applications or searched Google Maps for the fastest route. A travel chain application could work with the same idea. We would feed our own place of departure and destination, and then we would be able to compare different travel options, for example, on the basis of their speed or affordability, as well as on the basis of different modes of transport combinations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u111	Mr President! 145 of this government's proposals have now been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. In my own speech, I will confine myself to this general regulation of professional qualifications in the transport sector and the small amendments that I hope will be made to it. After all, the legal basis comes to a very large extent from the EU. But I welcome the fact that this approach to education remains and is a good starting point. As far as rail transport is concerned, professional qualifications are particularly important. Of course, at a time when competition is increasing in rail transport, we must remember that, among other things, the qualifications of 2000 locomotive drivers, who currently exist in Finland, are respected. That law also applies to traffic control, transfer work and the work of persons responsible for railway safety. This will probably focus on these national additions and their possible removals. After all, there are some 4,000 to 600,000 people today with basic qualifications in road transport, but tens of thousands of people carry out continuing training in road transport on an annual basis. That is what I would like to see minor clarifications in this bill. It is a huge cost for entrepreneurs, thousands of euros per year when drivers are forced to perform this qualification. Trafihan accepts it, training companies organise it, there are educational institutions and car schools. But I would like to see some flexibility and perhaps some relaxation in this area from the point of view of professional drivers and businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u112	Mr President! In the first phase of the Transport Services Act, when the regulations on road transport were put together in a single package, the regulations on the air, maritime and rail transport markets and the qualifications of transport personnel are now being incorporated into the legislation in the second phase. Both of these, i.e. phase one and phase two, are to be brought into force simultaneously at the beginning of July next year. What exactly is the essence of the bill? At the heart of it is customer-oriented travel chain thinking through digitalisation, as has already been pointed out here in previous speeches, which means that only by pressing the button will the citizen get different travel options with all the means of transport on the fastest route from there to A to B. At this point in time, it seems that it also takes time for this to happen. Let us hope that this is the way forward. This Transport Services Act enables customer-oriented development of transport services through digitalisation. I believe that in the future this will lead to new businesses and new innovations, also in the development of new services. The aim of this reform is to increase the market share of the entire transport sector and to make public transport an increasingly significant alternative to private cars. That's the core. Doing so will also bring about this thinking of the travel chain. I would like to stress once again that when the first stage was discussed, it led to a lot of criticism and debate, and I remember the referral debate here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u113	Mr President! Now you can see that there is a lot of wind on the road side. And I must say that the Minister of Transport does not seem to be at all afraid of the fact that sometimes you can get caught in the eye of a storm in this wind. Think about all the things that have been put into the wind and happening on the transport side during this parliamentary term: that is, we have this huge package of traffic cycles, we have a package of repairs, we have driving licences, we have road traffic laws, we still have a private road law to deal with today. In other words, it seems that during one parliamentary term there will be a great deal of courage in all the issues. Here, too, in the second phase of the traffic cycle, i.e. the law on transport services, is a huge challenge. I do not know how many people understand how much work has been done on that 800-page package, which means that this second phase includes so many things. In reality it contains much more things than the first step that has been compromised and discussed and fought. It talked very much in public about just a taxi matter, as if it were the only important thing. This is a huge package that has been taken over in these matters, and this should now be seen in the debate more as a whole, everything that has now been set in motion and happening on the transport side. Now, in committee and through experts, I am sure that we will have very interesting discussions on what this second phase will include. This whole digitalization: This is the year 2017, and we can see that. There are many things that should have been done earlier, but fortunately, even now, they are being made to happen. For example, this transport register, it is a huge piece of bureaucracy which currently exists in it. Now they have been courageously put together into a single register. I hope that all of this will be done and that the Ministry staff will be able to work and all these things will be built into a single package. The problem is, of course, how to build all these data protection issues. When the committee heard a little about the first package, the data protection issue will be a very big one. But what is good now is that when it is in one package, when it is handled through Traf — or whatever it is that this matter should be handled — there is a single data register and, above all, this one-stop shop service, so that we can start to get information about a great many things from one place to the next. And hopefully this will also be saved in costs, so that in the future, when services are provided from one door, it will be also more affordable for society and cheaper for us consumers in these matters. Then the travel chains. Indeed, it is time that these travel chain issues were made work. We, through digitalisation, are already making so many other things work on our mobile phones that even their travel chains must really start working smoothly, very easily and simply. What, then, is the overall impact of this reform on the outermost regions? As many people already know, I am obviously a person living in the most remote part of this Parliament, and I like that whole thing to be a very much service to me. I like that I am going to receive services, at least in the current form — well, hopefully in a much better way than at the moment, because we do not have those services there at the moment, otherwise so much spin and work. At the moment, we have to have our own cars and everything else to get moving. And yes, at the moment I have been in a bit of trouble when my own car terminated the cooperation agreement — I have wondered how crazy this is going. But what is important is that we can make different services work smoothly, and yes, I believe that these services will make us work. Since one thing here as a whole is postal legislation, postal legislation combined with this law on transport services, and there are all these other reforms, I hope that we will also make services play better in the outermost regions. So I really welcome this whole package as a reform. We must only courageously take our own step forward in these matters, so that we have faith and confidence in these things and look for the opportunities in which we can develop these things forward. Finally, I would like to mention this piece of bureaucracy. According to the Government Programme, red tape should be dismantled, and the law on transport services, in this second stage package, is a truly huge piece of red tape. I have looked at many sectors, but nowhere else has there been as much red tape as this. I hope that we will be able to counter even more of the bigger issues, because bureaucracy must be dismantled. We will see how this will be done in practice, whether we can achieve all the things we are now waiting for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u114	Mr President! On a world scale, traffic, the way to move, the way to transport goods, the transport systems are in such a state of transformation that this has not yet been seen in the history of mankind. Our basic question is, of course, whether Finland wants to be involved in this and whether Finland perhaps wants to show the way in which this global change will take place. In this respect, we must thank our Minister for not staying in the fire but working on it and we already have a law on transport services 1 here in Parliament and now we have the next version of the law on transport services 2. This is intended to combine these registers and to examine professional qualifications. We have an aircraft register, a vehicle traffic register, a fleet register, a maritime register, a railway register, a fleet register, an aptitude register, a licence register and so on. And we have the law on the registration of ships, the aviation law, the law on mortgages to aircraft, the railway law, the law on the road safety tasks of the railway system and so on. These are now being put together, and it is clear that this will provide a clearer legal basis and then a single, unified, large register of the information — and also a sharing of what is today's spirit and purpose. And now that there is a lot of information in one register and that information is transparent, that does not mean, of course, that all information is public and accessible to everyone just like that, but that, on certain grounds, people have access to their own data, companies can exchange information more conveniently and, of course, the exchange of information between the authorities is a matter separately, and it is not always public, but it is sometimes legitimately secret. This combination of registers is therefore a good thing. Well, then, this professional thing. In the transport sector, there is a lot of mirth that needs to be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u115	Mr President! Indeed, it is good to continue with this, because I am sure everyone's goal will be safe, functional and professional traffic in Finland as well, and this discussion of professional qualifications will probably be necessary in connection with this. I do not know how to estimate the number of cards or others, but I hope that the enthusiasm for deregulation does not go so far as to endanger our safe traffic or weaken our professionals' qualifications to the point of insecurity. For this kind of big package, which is now, sometimes there are risks. We have these packages of thousands of pages here in the other committees, and when they contain hundreds and thousands of details, the point of control is that one Member of Parliament could somehow pick up and relate all the points there... Sometimes you may miss points that might have been needed to have a discussion. Travel chain thinking and digitality in this context are very good and justified. I fully support them. However, it is somehow the case that operators are not involved in this, and perhaps the question for the Minister is whether it is because they should have been standardised in some way, so that those operators can then create those systems so that they can talk to each other, or what it is about that we have to buy these tickets on each means of transport separately. As has been heard here today, sometimes it is even painfully difficult to buy those tickets when it would be convenient to have such an ad about the train-ship arrangement that one ticket will allow you to switch from one instrument to another. One thing was also about the changes to the information system, because we are about to have a data protection regulation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u116	Mr President! This combination of journeys and its exploitation has been welcomed with satisfaction here. There must be some of these applications in the world, and it is hoped that the best of them will be introduced there. But I would have intervened in another matter, which is what is also in this big pile, that is, professional qualifications. Of course, there is a lot of flattering feedback from entrepreneurs in the industry about how these updates on these cards seem to many companies to be mostly additional costs and it is difficult to find a replacement driver, and it is felt that often the quality of these trainings is also so high that they are much more qualified to sit among students than there behind the teaching desk. I would have asked the Minister when he said: 'In total, 55,000 to 235,000 entries for continuing vocational training are recorded every year. The next increase in the number of continuing training in professional qualifications will be in 2018-2019, when the renewal of professional qualifications completed in the context of the entry into force of the Professional Qualifications Act becomes relevant." I wonder how we've been prepared for this. It is quite a cluster that year when people are coming to renew these qualifications. I would like the Minister to have a comment on that. Then, on the one hand, the price data, where it is stated here that price data have been relatively scarcely available, and, on the other hand, it is thought that the competitive situation would probably be quite good for further course training. But is it really the case that there is no more comprehensive information available about these, because these are precisely what entrepreneurs are paying attention to? For example, in neighbouring countries apparently
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u117	Mr President! This government proposal is precisely legislation that makes it possible and very progressive throughout Europe, it is remarkable. In this few speeches it was precisely on the subject that attention was paid to professional qualifications in transport. I understand that in the Government's proposal, all regulations on the qualifications and training of transport personnel are now being brought together in this Act on transport services and, in practice, in the first part of the directive on road transport permits. The professional qualifications of lorry drivers and bus drivers are now maintained in the current approach, where professional qualifications are achieved through participation in formal training. In rail transport, the qualifications of staff will continue to apply to train drivers, and in shipping, the qualifications of ships are strongly regulated by international agreements. The Aviation Act maintains the possibility of national regulation specifically for remote-controlled operations. That's what I've been reading here in the papers, and I think that's how it's going to be. I also hope that these qualifications will be at the level that road safety is precisely the top priority to which attention is paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u118	Mr President! I asked to speak again when I noticed that I did not thank the Minister for having found such an important issue here in my view. When we politicians go around a lot in those markets, many market vendors have given us confused questions as to why they are affected by this requirement to renew professional cards. It has now been said that there are these anomalies: 'if you are transporting your own products sold by the driver at a given location and driving a vehicle is not his main task'. With regard to these exceptions, the latter, the transport of goods sold at a given location, is national, so this does not come from the directive, and this is exactly what was done at the Ministry. Thank you for this. I believe that this is such a practical common sense anomaly and that many people have wondered that the good news is that if you carry your own products for sale — one of them they can be pots or socks or gloves or any very small handicraft products that are sold on a small board, and it may be more of a way of life or for some people to go to Christmas sales and the like — and then these people have had to do these things, in my opinion, this is an extremely good deviation that has been added here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u119	Mr President! Indeed, this interpretation of professional qualifications contains many important anomalies and it is good to read them there, in terms of freight transport or passenger transport. For buses too, there are anomalies and many families can take advantage of them. If there is a larger family, the number of children is higher, then you can take your own family by bus when it is not compensation-free traffic and so on. In particular, I would like to emphasise the importance of professional qualifications and safety, but Mrs Essayah raised this potential congestion in training in a few years' time. That is very far from being due, among other things, to the fact that this vocational training has only been a few years in Finland — I think 2014 was quite a season when a lot of these trainings were done — and by the transition period when it is renewed every five years, it is forced to become congested. But that is where I would like to see some flexibility in this regard, insofar as it might be possible to take advantage of those people who are actually on a daily basis in professional transport as drivers in this five-day training. Regrettably, it may often be the case that it is more qualified than the trainer himself, because these trainings are carried out by very young people with a small experience, perhaps by traffic instructors who have just been trained, and not by any professional experience on the road. These trainings have enormous diversity, both in terms of qualifications and in terms of price, and that is the big, challenging issue. I would like to see a wide-ranging debate on this subject during the preparatory work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u120	Mr President! I would like to thank you for these feedbacks and also for the lunches to be prepared for the future. I would like to highlight a few aspects that have been raised in this debate. We have tried to respond to the concern about the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises to be involved in this development. It is an obligation for the Finnish Transport Agency to provide this service in terms of digitalisation and open information, which will then enable SMEs to be actively involved in the development of this service. At the same time, we have tried to consider what are the things that require standardisation and what are the things that then require operators to find common models. There will be such a rapid change in the development of the market that we have also wanted to leave room for cooperation between operators and then find progress. The competence requirements raised by Mr Pakkanen, the related concerns and the requirements for further training in road transport and the necessary reductions are essential issues to be taken forward. Now we have had a little bit of a situation where the reform of vocational education and training has been going hand in hand here, and there is still a little unfinished business in the EU, and we have started to see that, in the third phase of the Act on transport services, we are going to have a wide-ranging debate on the question of qualifications in so far as they still have the potential of the changes that the EU is going to bring about and where the changes in vocational training are going to be. There is nothing in itself to prevent them from being dealt with at this stage as well. When it really is a big change in this whole law, we have wanted to see to it that the data transfer between personal data and user accounts is kept to a minimum and that they must exist instead of requiring the creation of new ones. The aim here is also to ensure that the spirit of the Data Protection Regulation is genuinely respected, as well as the requirements associated with it. Indeed, it is quite clear that we want to ensure that our road safety is at the top of the world, and that is something we will not compromise under any circumstances. In its spirit, the aim is also to ensure that the training and qualification requirements that have been laid down are also complied with. At the same time, it is also important to ensure that more individual solutions are found in education and that we do not make the system too burdensome for entrepreneurs either. This balance has been promoted in the proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u121	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u122	Mr President! In addition to the Transport Services Act, the amendment of the Driving Licence Act is one of the major legislative reforms in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications during this parliamentary term, which will dismantle regulation to exploit the potential of digitalisation. Regulation will be clarified and alternativeity to the performance of driving licences will be increased. Digitalisation will increase the number of e-services in the driving licence procedure. These changes reduce the administrative burden and can also affect the price of the licence. The main part of the proposal is the proposed change in driver training and the resulting development needs of the qualification. The amendment does not apply to driving licences for trucks and buses. Formal and formal education according to the curriculum established by the Authority will be abandoned. The focus on the performance of the driving licence will be shifted towards the driver's examination in accordance with international models and the criteria of EU legislation. The ability to better measure the skills of driving licences will be strengthened. The reform will focus in particular on the content that has so far been implemented through teaching. In category B, you return to your driving licence at one stage. By giving up staged training, the driver is better equipped to drive at the start of independent driving. In category B, the starting point for teaching is brought forward, which allows for a longer driving experience in safe conditions. The objective will also be promoted through guided driving training with the educational licence to support the training of driving schools. The purpose of the amendment is not to give up teaching in the performance of a driving licence. Only a strict regulation of the content and amounts of education, such as the present one, will be abolished. Class-specific theoretical education can be obtained more freely in the future, but driving instruction can only be provided with the authority's permission. The change makes it possible to better assess teaching needs on a pupil-by-student basis and to make use of previous skills. Statutory training requirements apply to the consideration of road safety and driving instruction in certain categories. The first driving licence must be accompanied by training on the basis of the criteria for operating on the road. Category B requires training in the identification of traffic risks. Training will be used to improve the monitoring of infringements by new drivers. A minimum number of driving lessons are required for the first motorcycle driving licence and category B driving licence. Compared to the current situation, the minimum levels of driving instruction are halved. The purpose of the courses is not to reflect the amount of driving instruction required by driving skills, but to ensure adequate conditions for assessing skills. A number of driver training trials have been carried out in class B driving licence training. These experiments have already tested the use of digital learning environments and more flexible curricula, including the number of driving hours. Content relating to the identification of risks will also be included in the degree. The feedback received during the consultation focused in particular on the impact of the proposals on road safety. The proposal increases the complexity of the qualifications, extends the duration of the class B driving test and requires a driving test in traffic. The background of the applicant for a teaching licence will continue to be examined to ensure that driving practices that are questionable for road safety are not transferred in the course. In order to maintain the safety of the teaching and examination drive, the requirement for an additional brake pedal is maintained. The proposal also includes proposals for driving licences for tractors: the LT category will be abandoned. Tractors of category T3 with a design speed of between 40 and 60 km/h shall be moved to category AM. They have the same driving licence requirements as light quadricycles. Other tractors with a maximum design speed of 60 km/h belong to category T. As tourism increases, more and more people come to Finland from countries where licences issued are not accepted to drive here. In the future, driving licences issued in a State recognised by Finland will be accepted. This will facilitate mobility and the use of tourism services. The amendments to the law are intended to enter into force 1. 1 July 2018. It is proposed that the entry into force of foreign driving licences be brought forward. In this respect, the Act is proposed to enter into force already at the beginning of February 2018. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u123	Mr President! Good Minister and good colleagues and others present! The Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, has been once again successful, and good, big issues are being taken forward. The renewal of the driving licence law will clarify the regulation of driving licences and will, inter alia, change driving instruction by increasing optionality. A B-category driving licence is also discontinued in several or two stages and may move slightly towards demonstrating that competence in a more flexible way. Car school hours are halved, and this, of course, has been somewhat questioned by the car school sector. It is hoped, however, that the solution is the right one and that the results of this proposal, which are also highlighted in this proposal, will also lead to better drivers. After all, we have had an experiment on the 10+10 model, and at least it has shown that it has not worked, but, on the other hand, optionality has also provided opportunities for more hours. No changes are proposed to the minimum age for category B driving licences, but there will be a few specific cases. In fact, if I read correctly, I think there is a slight contradiction in this proposal with regard to the 17-year-old B and BE cards, which would give these young people who are studying and aiming for the transport sector. The second point says that it should be used to drive people to study and to learn at work, but the section only talks about learning at work. I hope this is a mistake in the direction that both these drivings of study and work-learning are part of this whole. If this error is true, I hope that it will be reviewed and extended in committee. That is, the contradiction between the paragraphs and this explanatory statement. The fact that 17-year-olds will be able to obtain a driving licence is also highlighted in this proposal. After all, this year we have also had the excitement on the sports page of how rally driver Kalle Rovanperä completed the engineering drive and got a driving licence and was able to drive World Rally Championships at the age of 17 — thanks to Traf and others who had a positive impact. In my opinion, it makes sense to facilitate access to it, especially in situations such as vocational training or upper secondary school education, which is at the end of a long and difficult road, and I think it makes sense for society to apply for this type of relaxation. One thing I am a little surprised about is that at some point this extra pedal has returned to teaching licence training. I understand that much of it has been abandoned in the rest of the world, and I think that in the committee debate and in the process of going through it one could once more wonder whether such an additional pedal is needed in driving education. Mr President! When it comes to driving licences and driving rights, I would also ask the Minister of Transport, who has also been active in replacing mopeds with real cars whose speed would be limited. In other words, in this way dangerous, light - construction mopeds could be replaced by real cars, small cars, which would be limited to 60 kilometers per hour, for example. These cars, such as Smart or Aygo-type or other small real cars, would have non-locked brakes, airbags, at least two and often four, and so on. They would also be even cheaper in terms of price than these dangerous mopeds. I would like to ask the Minister what is the timetable for progress here. The Internal Market Commissioner Elzbieta Bienkowska gave him a positive message. In other words, if I have understood correctly, Bienkowska has given support to the fact that this is part of our national regulation. I would like the Minister to be able to shed some light on this. Many families wonder if a moped is still being bought or if a safer car could then be bought for the family as second car.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u124	Mr President! This proposal proposes to clarify and streamline the regulation of driving licences in the light of road safety requirements. If I have understood correctly, we are now moving on to a research-oriented model for driving licences and, at the same time, we are reducing a number of such bureaucratic rules, which are detrimental to the ordinary driver, which has been the case at this stage of driving licences today. Let me take one example: If a person is, for example, in order to be able to pull a slightly heavier combination, to drive a so-called little E, and it has been driven by an automatic car, the driving licence has been marked as not being able to drive a similar combination in a manual car. There has not been a very common sense argument here, and it is a good thing that this type of regulation is being reduced. I also think that it is appropriate to introduce reforms which, in the light of road safety, also aim to keep the price of the licence reasonable so that no one can be prevented from driving a driving licence. In particular, I would like to raise one point relating to this driving licence reform, which the Minister also mentioned in his presentation. One of the things that was considered difficult is that Chinese tourists' driving licences have not been accepted in Finland, and they have not been able to drive in Finland, nor do they participate in snowmobile safaris, for example, on public routes. This has caused a great deal of trouble and trouble. Although there has been a situation where the Chinese family has rented a car online for example to travel from the airport Levi or, for example, Kemin Lumilinna, but as a bad disappointment, they could not have been given a car because they did not have a driving licence that would have been acceptable in Finland. Now this will be changed, and this is an excellent thing. The system will be changed, as the Minister said, with regard to the countries which Finland recognises, the approval of a driving licence here and is no longer linked to whether this country is involved in the Vienna or Geneva agreements. I have also noticed that there have been some speeches about the opposition to driving licences for foreigners. Some say that Chinese people should not be allowed to drive because they cannot drive at all in the winter. Well, there may be some truth to this, the driving skills are certainly not all very good, but the reverse is that people from Hong Kong or Taiwan or India, for example, may have been driving, but those from mainland China have not been able to drive. Hong Kong also has traffic on the left, which is significantly different from this traffic in Finland. It is also good to remember that there are different conditions in those vast Asian countries and, for example, there are 30 degrees below freezing in Heilongjiang in Lapland and very similar conditions to those of us here in Finland in winter. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister very much for this proposal, which contains a number of positive and a great deal, even the reforms that have been expected. I would also like to thank you for the open and unbiased attitude you have shown to all the amendments that have come along this path from the Members of Parliament. One might say that greater and smaller measures are needed to boost the growth of tourism, and now you, Minister, have put forward one small but significant act of this kind. I hope that Parliament will adopt this excellent proposal unanimously in this respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u125	Mr President! The government proposal proposes to clarify and lighten the regulation of driving licences in the light of road safety requirements. This last point in this sentence, 'taking into account the requirements of road safety', is an excellent thing, because that is exactly how these transport-related legal provisions should be dealt with, and when the law is ready, it will also be interpreted as having been spotted in traffic control as well as in Trafi. The proposal aims to implement the Government Programme’s key projects on digitalisation and the dismantling of standards. The aim is also to clarify and streamline the regulation of driving licence training in the light of road safety. Hopefully, this reform will go ahead in terms of road safety and not just in terms of dismantling standards and the key projects of digitalisation. I welcome the fact that, when the reform takes place, it will promote the use of new alternative teaching and learning methods and that the changes do not apply to truck and bus cards. There is a need for a greater change in these categories of driving licences. The performance of the driver's licence, namely category B, will change, inter alia, by abandoning the educational plans and the step-by-step performance established by the authorities. The minimum amount of driving instruction will be 10 hours, compared to 18 hours earlier. However, this will be replaced by a new requirement of risk identification training, which will last for 8 hours. The duration of the driving test will be extended and the requirement of the theoretical examination will be increased. These are good changes. I am pleased to see a reduction in the granting of derogations for the minimum age of driving licences. This will allow better consideration to be given to the needs of young people and their families for access to education and employment. However, it would not be possible to obtain a category B licence until the age of 18. Here were the mopeds mentioned in earlier talks and compared with small cars. I wouldn't want to hand over a small car to my worst enemy when we're out there. I've seen a lot of fatal accidents, and those little cars are like a raisin in front of another bigger car. If you want to give a young person a safe car, then it has to be with a large basket and not a smart car the size of a moped, for example. I also welcome the reduction of the minimum age for driving licences. That is an excellent thing. Among other things, the teaching licence will be reduced by giving up the teacher’s test and no change testing will be required for the brake pedal. I do not consider these reforms to be good for road safety. I have also met several brake pedals in traffic control, which are in the front, but they are not in any way attached, because after the change survey these brake pedals have been changed and they may not be safe at that time. Changes are also coming to make moped and motorcycle cards. A driving test will be added to the moped card examination. Hopefully, it is precisely the vehicle handling test under urban conditions. For those who complete the first motorcycle card, the compulsory driving instruction will be 5 hours from the previous 9 hours. This amendment should be further specified in the committee. I also welcome the introduction of a new infringement monitoring system, which would require additional training to prevent risk behaviour if traffic offences leading to a ban were committed during the first two years. According to statistics, the first years are the most risky for young people, and the driving lessons received should still be fresh in memory. The reform would give nurses and nurses the right to report shortcomings in the fulfilment of health requirements as a result of continued substance abuse. I consider this to be a good record, but I am a little skeptical about it because, at the moment, the duty of doctors to report changes in the state of health of the holder of a driving licence does not work properly. In the future, a doctor’s report would be required only after the applicant’s 70th birthday. In the future, when the driving licence law is amended, it would also be useful to consider the role of older car drivers when their driving condition has substantially changed due to their health. In my opinion, some of them could be given the right to drive in a restricted and familiar section of the road or area. Especially in rural areas, the use of your own car is the only way to get to the village in addition to the taxi. In addition to this, if we wanted to reduce unnecessary bureaucracy, we could consider professional qualifications for heavy goods transport, as has already been mentioned in the debates today. Are they all necessary? However, if these are to be removed, road safety must go ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u126	Mr President! During my stay in the Parliament, the driving licence law has always been revised in length. In particular, the price of the licence has recently been wallpapered, and the wish in the customer feedback has always been that the price of the licence is too high today and should be dropped. It is now possible to review the matter when it is time to develop a driver's examination and to consider how to implement the conditions for obtaining a driving licence. When driving qualifications are developed, changes in the training requirements of the driver’s qualification put the skills of the driver at the heart of the matter. So the previous driving experience determines how much you need both theory and training and driving experience. So let's go to the individual learning path also when completing the driver's degree. Parts related to the safety of driving and the identification of incidents will be added to the degree. The complexity of the theoretical test will be increased and the time taken to answer will be tightened. In category B, the duration of the driving test is increased by 15 minutes, and in the moped examination the driving test is now mandatory. So the requirements for the driver’s education are now being changed, and what is necessary for anyone will certainly be measured when you go to a driving school and complete this degree. The minimum amounts will now be set at the level of the law. The minimum number of training courses on safety issues and basic transport issues for the first driving licence is 4 hours, and in category B, the training on risk identification, which is equivalent to the current in-depth training, would be completed before the driver's examination due to the phasing out of the phaser and would be 8 hours. The theoretical teaching related to the acquisition of driving skills is not regulated, but the first motorcycle card and the B-category driving licence must receive driving instruction, with a minimum of 5 hours for the motorcycle and 10 hours for the transport of a B-category passenger car. The teaching and research vehicle requires a separate brake pedal for the teacher or driving trainer and the driver of the driving test, which will certainly provide a wide range of feedback during the committee reading, but the requirement for a change test will be waived in the form of this brake pedal. It is important that we also use digital experiments to consider how the theory and driving test can be changed and promoted. In particular, simulation solutions can be some kind of relief in the future when it comes to, for example, driving licences and teaching licences in sparsely populated areas. Mr President! In the field of educational permits, we have always discussed the terms of the permit, the number of permits, and who can then be taught with the licence. It has now been settled that the test of a teaching licence teacher should be dropped, but it is necessary to determine the criminal background in this case. The learner is required to have 25 years of age and 5 years of experience in driving licences. The permit criteria remain unchanged. In teaching non-neighbourly, only three licences can be obtained in three years to prevent the grey economy, and this too will probably be the subject of intensive discussion in committee. With regard to the other changes, I would like to raise two. Representative Salmon spoke earlier about the approval of foreign driving licences in mainland Finland when it comes to permits for tourists or persons from outside the EU and the EEA countries. Therefore, it is precisely in order to promote tourism, especially in the region of Lapland, that the criteria in this respect should be relaxed, but the rest of the Nordic countries in our neighbourhood have done so too. However, it must be said that the culture of road transport must be highlighted in the promotion of tourism and tourism when foreign people come to our territory at different times of the year. Mr President! I would also like to point out that making it possible to obtain a category B licence at the age of 17 for people undergoing vocational driver training is very wise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u127	Värderade Herr Talman! Syftet är att förtydliga och att luckra upp regleringen av körkortsutbildningen samt att främja användningen av nya alternativa undervisnings- och inlärningsmetoder. Det ska också i fortsättningen krävas undervisning för att förvärva körförmåga och ta körkortet, men den exakta definieringen av innehållet i undervisningen slopas. För att upprätthålla trafiksäkerheten ökas svårighetsgraden både i teori- och i körprovet, och för den som avlägger körkort för personbil föreslås en obligatorisk åtta timmar lång utbildning i att upptäcka riskfactorer. Jag ser mycket positivt på den bull reformen. Flexiblare inlärningsmöjligheter för mer positivt med sig n negativt. Obligatoriska åtta timmar för att upptacka risker är bra. Det är också väldigt bra med utökade tillagsutbildningar som förebygger riskbedet. Ett mycket bra förslag i reformen är också ålderssankningarna och undantagen som kommer att förenkla vardagen för många unga. Förslagen till ändringar gällande traktorer är också mycket bra. Förslagen skulle minska byråkratin och underlätta för under 18åriga att arbeta inom lantbruket. Även om milioner munniskor dagligen framför ett fordon är det ändå ett stort ansvar att framföra ett fordon i trafiken, och det är viktigt att utbildningen hela tiden hålls modern och ändamålsenlig. Enda risken jag ser med den förreslagna förändringen är att den i värsta fall can leda till att det blir dyrare att erhålla körkort. Det skulle i så fall vara en dålig consekvens då körkort redan i dag är mycket dyra, och vi nog dessvärre redan på visi orter i landet kan att alla inte har råd att skaffa körkort. Det får inte bli en klassfråga att ha råd med ett körkort. Som sagt är det arv den enda risken jag vill lyfta upp i det korskedet, och konstaterar att det är viktigt att vi följer med den saken. I övrigt tycker jag att förslaget är mycket bra, och jag ser fram emot att arbeta med lagförslaget i communicationutskottet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u128	Mr President! The Government is proposing a reform of the driving licence law, and the current model of driving licence performance based on formal driver education and driver’s examination has long been in use in Finland on its own basis. Updating this model is quite understandable. The Government's proposal now proposes to reduce the regulatory burden on the performance of driving licences other than those of lorries and buses and to reduce the legal teaching requirements. In recent years, the number of driving licences has decreased, at least the number of driving licences in category B has been delayed. The price of driving licences is still very high in Finland, and the way of moving is changing, as we noticed in the referral debate on the second round of traffic that we discussed earlier today. The requirement to accede to international road transport agreements as a basis for the validity of a driving licence in Finland currently restricts driving licences issued in many countries, and this regulation is intended to be streamlined. It is proposed to extend the validity of foreign driving licences to driving licences issued in all countries recognised by Finland. The objective is understandable in a globalised world, but it does involve concerns about how in practice the authenticity of a third country driving licence in Finland is confirmed and road safety in Finland is guaranteed, driving cultures when they are very different in many countries. The proposal also includes the calculation of the minimum age for driving instruction. It would give more time to build up the driving experience safely. On the other hand, it has been suggested that the calculation of the minimum age would be associated with the risk of an increase in road accidents. I guess we'll see about this. In addition, the draft law would replace the medical examination with the applicant’s health insurance, since the majority of drivers of driving licences are young people with basic health. I think this is quite justified. The proposed changes to education would allow the price of driving licences to be affected when not everyone would be required to be trained according to the same model. On the other hand, there is a risk that changes would weaken the actual learning of the learner. This has been balanced in the proposal, for example, by the emphasis on theoretical tests and skill requirements. The proposal is also related to digitalisation. The use of digitalisation, technical access and online education and simulated virtual education is in favour as part of education, but at least today's technology cannot fully simulate genuine traffic situations. When you think about learning, it's not just about visual stimulation, it's also about how you feel about using the device, how the car reacts to the terrain, and so on. In the debate, there was reference to mopeds and the possibility that they might be replaced in the future by cars with limiters. I have some reservations about this debate because when you know that it is practically possible to hack or tune all the IT and technical tools, and when you know what happened to mopeds, i.e. how many mopeds in Finland are untraceable, you can get into the debate that we are willing to take the risk that the use of passenger cars, with their maximum capacity, will then be able to take control of minors. It is worth considering this very carefully, and I have reservations about this technology that everything can happen. But back to the actual bill: The educational presentations would increase the individuality of the study and give the driver with a driving licence the choice to acquire driving skills. On the other hand, the role of a qualified, experienced and trained car instructor in promoting driving skills and responsible traffic behaviour, for example, should not be underestimated. To some extent I have reservations that, for example, the test of a teaching licence teacher should be dropped and the installation of brake pedals should no longer be examined separately. Over the decades, Finland has successfully reduced the number of road accidents, a well-regulated car school system. The impact of the changes, when the changes are so large, must be carefully assessed in committee in order to maintain a high level of road safety in Finland. I trust that this proposal will get a thorough discussion and then the Greens will come to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u129	Mr President! From this speech by Mrs Parviainen, it is good to continue with the importance of driving school. After all, car schools are still in Finland, even with this reform, and there is nothing to remove them, the teaching is only renewed and new alternatives will come. Car schools have done important and good teaching, provide education, and this culture of habit, especially as one of the teaching methods of car schools, is important, and one must remember that one way or another will have it in the future. The fact that there will be more alternatives to teaching methods is a welcome reform. And this issue of minimum age, which has already been raised many times, seems to me to be a good thing, because many young people, even when they are 17 years old, are mature in traffic and, of course, they must be given the opportunity to do so. There will probably be a lot of discussion on the brake pedal and these issues during the committee reading. Of course, this current problem has been that if you have completed a driving licence with an automatic transmission, then the so-called manual car has not been the option, and vice versa. This is, of course, a good modern-day reform to make progress. The age limit for teaching permits is this 25-year age limit for teaching consent. It will probably be well thought out as to whether it will be sufficient for five years of driving experience. I guess you have to think about it, if you haven't actually driven in five years, you'll still get a teaching permit. These extremes must be able to consider that road safety in this respect too can then be secured and given sufficient quality of instruction to those driving licence holders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u130	Mr President! This government proposal clarifies and makes the current system of driving licences more flexible. In other words, the regulation of driving licences for non-cars and buses will be reduced in the light of road safety requirements. As far as I am concerned, in this area too, also in this government proposal and reform, it is road safety that must be taken into account and given attention. It must be a starting point and also a goal. In the Government's proposal, the requirements for driving licence training and its implementation will be reduced. That is also a good thing. In particular, educational solutions can influence the price of driving licences. Yes, the fact is that there has always been a lot of discussion about the price of the licence, which is the right level. This Government proposal develops a driver’s certificate in such a way that, due to changes in teaching requirements, parts related to the safety of driving and the identification of incidents are added in order to identify the driver’s skills. The complexity of the theoretical test will be increased and the time spent on answering it will be tightened up and the driving test will also be increased — I think good proposals for reform will be made. And it is very good that this also takes into account the student’s abilities and skills at that time in the teaching. In my opinion, these changes to the categories of driving licences are also good, the phase-out of the phase-out of the B licence, and the renewal of the tractor card is also a good thing. I myself would like to hear the views of the experts in the committee on this matter of educational authorisation, the rejection of the test of a teaching licence teacher. I myself am very critical of this at this stage, but we will see what the experts say in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u131	Mr President! In fact, there are two main objectives in this debate when we talk about the amendment to the driving licence law. The first is to try to make it easier to get a driving licence, to make sense of the current regulation and perhaps to take the system back to the time we actually live. All these objectives and means can be warmly supported, and I thank the Minister for this. Then the second whole relates to what many people here have been concerned about, namely road safety. In principle, any regulation and reform of transport must also be considered on the basis of whether it will increase or reduce road safety, and it is great that we are also trying to take care of it. In this respect, I would like the committee, when it comes to dealing with this, to go through those opinions very carefully. For example, the opinion on transport safety stressed that the content objectives of education should, however, be well documented. This would probably be desirable, and I hope that the committee will go through this. Then I would have asked the Minister when we have the great impetus of this particular calculation of the price of the licence. It is true that in Finland, the price of a driving licence has been too high. It has also been suggested here on many occasions by the various parties that, if only, a driving licence could be issued as part of a secondary education, for example. After all, we now have many schools offering theory education as part of some optional course. How does the minister see whether this whole licence could be completed as part of secondary education and even if the price of the licence were to be linked to the completion, i.e. if the student is completed in the target period, he could receive it completely free of charge or at least receive a credit for it? This would also encourage young people to have a secondary degree, because, in fact, we will also need driving licences in the future, in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u132	Mr President! In this area of driving licence renewal, it is very important that in future the importance of skills is emphasised that knowledge is the most important thing. The term "personal study plan" is not used here, but hops in practice is a question in many places. So the good news is, let's start paying attention to our previous skills. In the studies, however, the complexity of the theoretical and driving tests is increased and the training of risk recognition is increased, i.e. new things, but it is essential that if a person knows something earlier, they do not need to be re-educated. Then I'm also concerned about the fact that the driving lesson is halved. I at least needed more teaching when I had not been driving before, but it's good that those who can drive well don't have to learn it so much anymore. These Chinese cards. Especially have we had a lot of talk about whether to give them a driving licence or not in Lapland. It is good that this has been discussed and discussed, but the overall result is that it is absolutely necessary to give it to them. A good thing is that even if this law comes into force only 1.7. By the way, we will already be able to move on to 1.2 in the case of foreign driving licences, which will make a major contribution to the tourism sector. Then we've been talking about that moped thing. That is something that I would also like to pay a great deal of attention to. Now, in order for the Minister of Transport not to stop working, you might as well concentrate on how this moped issue will be resolved in the future, on this whole. Indeed, we in the Committee on Transport and Communications still have a lot of work to do with this law, and perhaps not everything will go exactly as it does in this proposal. We work on and listen to the experts, then we work on the final solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u133	Mr President! Overall, the reform of driving licences is certainly welcome and will contribute to clarifying training practices in this area. A major change is, among other things, this phase-out, and I am sure that in the future, when young people are then being trained to drive in one phase, it will be worth watching how the level of safety in comparison with current education changes, and hopefully it will not change for the worse. When you have followed the driving abilities and skills of those who have recently completed a driving licence in a familiar circle and in your own family, you have to say that we have a very good car education and that the attitudes and skills of young people are quite well suited to the current system. Of course, we must ensure that this is the case in the future. Fortunately, in home education in this system, the requirement for a teaching path remains, that is, the car must have a teaching path even if a parent, for example, teaches her offspring. But how will the use of a teaching permit be controlled in the future? How will it be ensured that the teaching licence activity is in fact in line with the law that it will not only allow the grey economy to break free? I don't think that's what we want. This is something we should probably pay attention to in the follow-up process and see how the situation in Sweden has been dealt with and learn from it if there is lessons to be learned. I would also like to ask the Minister whether the proposal could be further processed either now or in the future, so that the degree and teaching could be carried out in an automatic-speed car so that it would not now be entered in the driving licence, that in the future it would always have to be driven by an automatic-speed car, but would also be such a deregulation point,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u134	Mr President! This proposal, which proposes to clarify and lighten the regulation of driving licences, particularly in the light of road safety requirements, is a very good one. Especially as an entrepreneur in the tractor sector, I was very pleased to note that the third part of the driving licence trilogy for tractors is now under discussion, and then, finally and finally, these last uncertainties that have occurred in the tractor licence jungle will be corrected. In fact, this proposal now removes this category of LT, which has caused a great deal of conflict and amazement in practical action in that field. Now these would go more clearly into two categories, i.e. this speed limit of 60 km per hour, which limits tractors to those who run slower and then to those who go faster than 60 and to whom a Class C card should be on. In other words, this is a really fine presentation and reform, which I am sure will be welcomed with joy in that field, because this has been one of the main problems and gray hair has caused many people to know which driving licence will allow you to drive a tractor in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u135	Mr President! The government's proposal on the renewal of driving licences is welcome and, in many respects, quite justified and changes a lot of practices, but society is ready for this type of change. Representative Those tractor driving licences were well highlighted by the column and, in my opinion, they are an extremely good take-up, given the economic situation, in such a way that the young men and girls on the premises can also be put to more responsible jobs. Then here I will raise a few points, details. I am also a little surprised that Mrs Parviainen has just pointed out that these registrations of mopeds would be changed towards the normal passenger car with limiters. It would be a welcome safety supplement for young people when they are out there in the transport sector, and also because those vehicles would be more attentive to traffic when they are the size of a car. Representative Parviainen raised the risk of being manipulated and hacked. Of course, we have many problems in society, which are gaps, but we usually have to rely on the fact that we, too, keep the mopeds there at their own speed, why not these cars? This is about safety for young people, and young people are moving more and more. We have sad events just last winter, where we have a young man who has died in these motorcycle accidents. I stress that this is a security issue, and I hope that this will also be on a very fast schedule. A few things about teaching a driving student and the driving licence: It is to be welcomed that that period will increase to two years, that it can already be started when a young person turns 16 years old, this driving instruction. I myself have taught both young people here in the last two years, and when a year teaches them their own youth and drives them miles, it is otherwise an educational moment for the young but also for the father. I can say that anyone who has the opportunity to use this kind of opportunity is worth it. But just as I have given a good, direct message to the Minister that there should be a safety pedal there in the future, it is good that it is still there in that proposal. But I would still use it there at the survey office to be checked by an engineer so that it would also be operational. At the same time, it is as if the teacher is also familiar with the teaching assignment in such a way that he becomes aware of the condition of the car’s use, so that it works in the right situations. The second point, which Mrs Torniainen raised, is the failure to carry out a teacher's licence or test: Yes, I also experienced that when I first went there after a long period of time to carry out whether it was going to be a permit or not, there was a little familiarity with the task that I was going to receive. This is such a comprehensive idea that it is driving yourself into the mode of teaching that young person, the vehicle is in order, it has an appropriate pedal that can also stop the vehicle in an emergency when, however, the teacher is responsible for driving the car in that teaching situation. I personally felt that one time, when I had to press the pedal, I only found it so that if it had not been there, nothing could have been done, the tin can would at least have been born. I hope that, while this committee, as Mrs Torniainen has just spoken, experts will want to hear, please carefully assess whether it would still be. It is, however, a small cost of testing the teacher's skill and then the condition of the vehicle, a few tens of it is certainly an acceptable cost. Overall, this driving licence reform, as I said at the beginning, is very welcome, but I hope that you will also pay attention to these two issues in committee work and that you will consider these matters important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u136	Mr President! I am not going to tell you these things that have been repeated, just to say that there has been an increase in traffic awareness. This category B licence is subject to exemption procedures, but this means that the card can be obtained for particularly heavy reasons. But then the government's proposal mentions that this could be changed so that it would be removed from the'special weight reasons' — we know that many people have long journeys, schools and hobbies and so on. I've been riding a moped myself, and yes, it's a very unsafe device, it's got very thin hoods. Especially in rural areas, these mopeds are necessary; they are not luxury suites. They are unsafe, but new mopeds cost EUR 15,000, and it would already buy a slightly bigger car. If we were to think about this, it would certainly be necessary for these mopeds to be converted into so-called passenger cars. This money really buys a good and safer car. And then, those moped girls and boys, from the age of 15 to the age of 17, drive those mopeds, but I would rather ride with them than these women or men whose age is eight, nine, ten. I hope that the young people are enlightened, that there will always be those surprise shots, but the 17-year-olds are already quite good enough to complete this driving test, and I hope that this will move forward. Especially in rural areas, this is such a big thing, otherwise parents have to take you to hobbies, and when young people travel 20, 50, even 100 km on mopeds, I hope that this will be addressed. Many young people have contacted us that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u137	Mr President! I think it's right to make it easier to get a driver's license. For example, in Stockholm 18-year-olds drive a card no longer 10 per cent, so that if it is still very expensive in Finland, then it leads to the same, and it is not good in this kind of country where their own driving licence is needed. Here are a few things that I think should be taken into account in teaching. The most important thing I would consider is that this attitude education should be put into the right role and that it should be carried through in group education, because the attitude is the most important thing that is needed in the transport sector, and it is the right attitude, because a car is a means of killing if it cannot be handled properly. Another issue that relates to attitudes and which, in my opinion, has fallen short in recent discussions on road safety is the correct speed of the situation. That has been the cornerstone of driving school education for the ages, according to Section 23 of the Road Traffic Act. That's the right speed. These are the key factors that should be achieved in qualitative terms in education. I would also like to highlight and highlight the importance of driving paths. There are a lot of people who drive relatively little, so that it would be good every once in a while, even if by group, to go to the training track and then learn and get to know new cars with very advanced safety technology and so on, so that they can do evasive movements and others and become you, so to speak, with the car. Besides, it is fun, but it is also very useful, and it is an excellent way for road safety to train for a better driver. Then one more thing: an automatic car or a manual car? I don't care who drives it. Today, when almost all cars are starting to have automatic gearboxes, they should be allowed. I myself wonder at the attitude of Olli-Pekka Parviainen: as if the law could not therefore make sense that someone should break it. It can't be an obstacle to law-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u138	Mr President! More and more young people today no longer want to go to driving school, saying that there is no need for that driving licence here in the city. There is such a problem that their general knowledge, general education, traffic is very short. There is a great deal of traffic education in car schools. We should now consider how to get this education to all young people, even if they do not have this driving training at all. That is why it would be important for young people in the ninth grade, or in upper secondary schools or vocational education, all to receive this general education for travelling and travelling. Now, perhaps we will have to consider in committee whether we can somehow put this on the road, because the law makes it possible for previous skills to be taken into account in this issue of driving licences and the granting of licences, that is to say, what course and training could be achieved at that level of general education which could then be used, whether they were trained in driving licences or not. Secondly, I would like to say that it is now a very good thing that this step-by-step teaching is abandoned. Now that I have been watching two of my young people's driving licences, the second and third phases have been nothing but money laundering and nothing more. They no longer have much of such essential education in it, and on the other hand, the automobile schools themselves have already acknowledged that they have little more to offer than a payment note for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u139	Mr President! I had to take the floor when, for the second time today, my name changed to Olli-Pekka. So my name is Olli-Son. But in any case, to the actual matter. I weighed that problem here, which was raised by colleagues from my speech. So the intention was to take into account that if we are going to change the legislation so that mopeds are replaced by such limited cars, then we must be prepared to have to build a system that is genuinely secure enough to allow, for example, a threshold for hacking or tuning a car of this kind to be sufficiently high. However, we are talking about young people who certainly have a lot of motivation to try different things. Of course, the law can be enacted despite the fact that someone is violating it. At the moment, we have Finland full of tuned mopeds and we can still ride the moped in accordance with the restrictions. It is not a question of pre-empting ourselves and noting that such an option exists. Secondly, when we talk about driving in general, the problem at the moment, especially in large cities, is that there is a certain amount of blockage by mopeds. The urban structure has not been designed to take into account the growth in motor vehicles as much as mopeds have already brought with them. It's just a nuance, of course. But if we are going to replace these mopeds with safe and even larger cars, not to satisfy those Smarts, it will certainly pose a certain challenge, especially for the parking policy of the growth cities. This can certainly be solved, but I understand that in Finland, in the big picture of the growing regions, the aim is to curb the growth of motor vehicles. Then we should think very carefully if we are to do so, that this will have an impact. But, as I said, I am quite open to this issue. Personally, I'm not into mopeds, but I understand the need for them. I don't get into cars at all, except sometimes my own,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u142	Mr President! I would also like to address the issue of mopeds, as Parviainen has just corrected that first speech a little bit and brought it closer to the present. I would also like to point out that this is, in its own way, also a question of equality when we consider that young people everywhere in Finland are able to go to the same types of hobbies and schools as any citizen. And when we talk about long distances and talk about them also going to school day and night in rehearsals, hobbies, this would be one form of being able to move safely in the darkening hours of the evening, to go to those sports or cultural hobbies, whatever anyone is doing. It is precisely the safety issue as a starting point that I am at least going to approach this issue. Whether the car is small or big, when it is classified as a vehicle, it is always safer than these glass-fibre mopeds, and from that point of view I want you all to assess the situation. We have far too many of those moped accidents, and I believe that we could save more young people by having such an airbag car that actually protects us in the event of a traffic accident. Then I would also like to pick up a very important point that Mr Estilä has just raised, namely the training track. As to the way in which the student is taught in that teaching situation, both those studying in car schools and those studying in school, it must be said that it is a pleasant experience for yourself as you go along with the student and learn those situations, evasive situations, braking trips. It was also a memorable moment when we were there and when the boy was able to say that "whichever here, Father, by the way, was the best brake". In other words, the situation that has been going on for years in that traffic has been overcome by a variety of dangerous situations, but then you really go focus on that situation and check it out — it would be absolutely necessary for anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u143	Mr President! In this context, it is probably worth a word about road safety that we are changing, because it is so constantly on magazine wallpaper. Personally, I wonder how this debate in Finland can be so simple that it is said that there is little more about road safety than speeding. And, as I said earlier in my speech, I understand that we have speed limits that must be respected, but at the same time we must also recognise that there is a situation and that it varies according to different weather conditions, traffic volumes, congestion and when. But if we do not talk about this, I believe that the whole issue of road safety is not fully addressed. It is good that Mrs Parviainen was constructively telling us what she meant. However, I personally see this moving of mopeds or the fact that a young person should be allowed to drive a better small car, which is certainly safer, it has airbags and everything that is possible because it is better from a safety point of view. I, for one, am thinking of the health and safety of these young people. I'm terrified to look at the experiments I've been doing myself a few times when a moped is dropped from 5 meters. It's so terrible that this is the motivation. Of course, every bill contains some negative aspects, and they can be considered and so far away, but I think that once the Prime Minister has taken a stand on this and this is always going on from time to time, every two months, in a debate, we would also be able to reach a goal in Finland at some time and achieve what many of us want. Then there's the thing that when we have many laws and apparently, if I understand correctly, you can't drive a car when you're completely drunk, anyway, but some people drive so much that 20 percent of people die because of drunk drivers. And when you add lumps, mixed use, and other space that does not require getting into the wheel, it starts to rise to one third. However, we know that the speeding driven by a sane person, a normal, very dominant car, is 5%, so I think we should now deal with 33 percent of the drunk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u144	Mr President! Of course, we are dealing with the issue of driving licences, but when the issue of mopeds arises, I would also like to say that I am very much in line with Mr Hakanen and Mr Eestilä that a normal car is much safer than a moped. We have had far too many motorcycle accidents recently. When I am traveling by car myself, there are many times, especially in the slightly dark and dark weather, which car runs in front of me. When you get a little faster, a moped may be in front of you. It travels much slower in it, causing those dangers. I remember a while ago when the survey legislation was being renewed. It made it clear that mopeds have much easier faults than ordinary cars. And I also think that it is a big challenge if we stick to mopeds to ensure that their road safety is maintained. I personally hope that we will be able to discuss this issue in the future, which is the future of mopeds. Here, too, in the case of mopeds and also in this legislation on driving licences, priority must be given to road safety and traffic behaviour. There has also been talk of teaching trails. However, I also think it is a good thing that the teaching path will remain in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u145	Mr President! Nothing really speaks for these modern-day mopeds, not for their price, not for their safety. No one has yet shown me any reason why we need these mopeds in this model as they are at present. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, has been active in this regard in replacing them with safer small, real cars with non-locked brakes and airbags and others. In fact, they are even cheaper than today's mopeds. Now that the President has, in his mercy, allowed the debate on these transport issues to go a little further, I would also like to point out that I hope that today, when we have talked about this transport sector as a whole, such as the registers, Minister Berner could also work on the creation of a register of recreational vehicles in Finland. We have a register of museum cars, but it would be quite justified to create such a register of recreational vehicles, which would support, for example, the construction of slightly newer cars and cars. Secondly, I hope that Mr Berner, who still has plenty of time left, will still be able to take care of the winter speeds. It is absolutely absurd to act on these speed limits up and down with a screw-down. Ask, for example, to be an expert in the committee or at the Ministry of Transport Medicine Professor Timo Tervo. He is an excellent expert in telling us that we are sworn to reduce speeds when, in fact, those accidents are usually caused by many other things. Mr President! I have often thanked Minister Berner, and I will end this speech with thanks. It concerns the relaxation of winter tyre obligations. That, too, makes sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u146	Mr President! Minister! I welcome the fact that there has also been a debate here on road safety in the speeches of many representatives and that there is concern and concern about it in all sectors. As far as this bill is concerned, it is important for this moped card to become part of the driving test, because a simple examination is not enough. Even when there are four boys and one girl, two boys have a moped and tractor card completed and neither of them has ever driven a tractor. I find it rather worrying that, when the masses and speeds of tractors and everything is constantly increasing and if this card does not include the driving test at all, then it gives the wrong kind of signal that this young person, who has been able to study those rules and has been able to pass it, is supposed to have the capacity and the necessary characteristics to drive this huge tractor without ever driving it. Of course, this is not the case, but that skill comes from practical life and only by driving and learning. Then I would have asked the Minister: would it be possible to get a moped card for young people to go to comprehensive school, to secondary school, for example, so that it would be possible and possible? Yes, as Mrs Maijala has pointed out here, transport education is a common matter for us, and we in some municipalities, for example, have the opportunity to complete a hunter's certificate as part of the primary school, and I would like to see a moped card also possible. It certainly does not matter that people know the traffic rules and know how to move in that traffic, even if they never put that moped on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u147	Mr President! We in the Finns Party have long discussed this and hoped that these mopeds would be abandoned in such a way as to limit passenger cars. If you think about that cost of EUR 15,000 and the fact that you should be buying another car in a few years’ time, that’s a pretty big financial investment. It would be much easier if the car had a limiter and then, when you have an adult and 18 and get to drive a car, you could take this limiter off and the same car would be below. That would have advantages like this. In fact, I asked for the floor because Mrs Parviainen, the Greens' representative, spoke that she was not enthusiastic about cars, except perhaps her own.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u152	Mr President! This debate also highlighted the willingness of Finnish young people to drive. Although we are not yet in the Stockholm figures in Finland, we currently have about 60 per cent of the age group to complete a driving licence as soon as they are 18 years old. But then there are huge regional differences, that is, if you look at the situation in Helsinki, only about one third of the age group will issue a driving licence when you turn 18. Then again, as I recall, there are 80 % of the age group in Ostrobothnia, and this indicates that there are a lot of regional differences. There are certainly several factors that make it impossible for young people to complete a driving licence as soon as they are 18 years old, and certainly other modes of transport are also popular and easy to use, for example, in urban areas. But surely the great incentive has also been the price of driving licences, which is also reflected in many studies, and that is why, in this proposal and also in the follow-up work, we must ensure that we are able to calculate the price of driving licences and thus enable all young people who wish to do so to be able to do so. That is why I pointed out that, in further work, we could also consider including a driving licence as optional in secondary education, and through it it would be possible for all young people to complete it, whether they come from Helsinki or from Ostrobothnia or from anywhere. And then, even if this cost reward were tied to a student’s graduation, perhaps it might also have a positive effect on the students’ graduation from the second degree and perhaps even on their qualifications being completed more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u153	Mr President! When we talk about driving licences, at least I hope that when young people drive a driving licence, they will be able to drive cars that are safe. As the President now allows this debate to be extended to road safety, I would just like to say that unfortunately one of the biggest killers in transport is the car tax. It just causes us to have an old fleet of cars, and these new cars today are completely different from old cars. They have many such qualities, lane guards, ski-blocks and many other things, that it is actually hard to get them out of hand even in winter weather, unless you drive clearly over the speed of the situation. That is why I would like to see some time span in this country to get rid of the car tax and to shift that tax focus a little away, and it will be possible to do so without market disruptions. For if we continue like this and the purchase of a new car is very expensive, it will keep the car stock old, and we will be a banana state if we do not get this thing right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u154	And now, Minister Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u155	Mr President! I would also like to thank the representatives for this debate, for their feedback and also for their preparation for the future. There are a number of different points of view here, one of which has been precisely the price of this card. This is a structural change in education, and perhaps that is why it would be important to consider that the whole, for example this teaching licence and teaching licence teacher, will play a different role than is currently the case, because we see that when the driving training period is extended for two years and when the teaching that takes place in a car school is changed in a different kind of way, this is, above all, where the form of combining these things is sought. It would therefore also be extremely important for more licences for teaching to be granted and for the threshold to be as low as possible so that we can have as many drivers as possible in the opportunity to obtain training time. Even if he did use a lot of car - school services, that would be the training period. That is why we want to see that certain things that are important, such as the pedal that came in the feedback, are kept, but the feedback and the consultation did not really make any comment that the pedal should be viewed, but that it should be ensured that it does not become too high a threshold for the actual use of the training permit. That is why there has also been an effort not to have the educational licence teacher’s test but to keep the threshold low for the maximum possible training in traffic. In Sweden, for example, where a similar arrangement has been made, 90 percent of those who complete a driving licence qualification have also taken lessons from a driving school. Especially now that there is no quantitative regulation of how it should be done or that its curriculum should be of a certain type, yet the definition of safety training is included in the curriculum. In doing so, it should have an impact on the price reduction and thus enable the possibility of training as a teaching licence to be given, and then there are the parts here that still require professional training. When the number of hours during this training phase changes and when part of the simulator can be used, the combination of these changes this whole process, and in that sense I would like transparency from the committee when considering this. This is about changing more than just elements, it is about changing the whole, and I would like to see that perspective changed. But then about this moped. We have assumed that we want this to be clarified, and the report will be completed at the end of this year, and then we will have an assessment of how it can be implemented, and the starting point is that the EU will be positive, and then we will have the same regulatory options. Here again, it is not a zero-sum game, it is a new opportunity, and that means that then the alternative to the moped is a car with speed limits, and then the choice is. The same thing: Once again, when we regulate certain numbers, minimum levels of teaching lessons, we do not want to assume that these are minimum or maximum levels, but that these are the amounts that can be used to assess the student's ability to perform the test and then, if necessary, to require further training or to give or propose further training in the future. Some secondary schools currently have a licence for driving, and this would of course be desirable if this could be increased. How is that funding to be resolved? Some schools have now resolved it so that they will act exactly as Mr Räsänen has proposed here, and hopefully this practice will be increased. There are no obstacles and therefore there is no negative attitude in the ministry, on the contrary there is a desire to encourage other options to achieve a driving licence. Automobile: this is where we have EU regulatory constraints, which means that it cannot be affected very quickly. Then how does this educational licence control happen? After all, it is very simple in this digital age. Trafi grants only one permit per pupil once and no more than three licences in three years, i.e. a teaching licence teacher can only have one valid permit for one student, and a designated student, at a time, and when this student then moves on to a driving test, a degree, it can be checked whether he has had the licence back. Therefore, there should be no obstacles. Now that the registers are better used, these things can be cleared up automatically. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u156	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u157	Mr President! The government has submitted a proposal for a new private road law of 19.10. The motion is intended to repeal the 1963 Law on Private Roads. In more than 50 years, society has changed a lot thanks to urbanisation, demographic change and technological development. The world is not the same world in which the private road law was very successfully enacted. The changes in society have been taken into account through partial reforms over decades, which has led to inconsistencies in the structure of the law and, above all, confusion. The law also contains obsolete and overlapping provisions. The streamlining of legislation, or deregulation, has been one of the main objectives of the preparation of the private road law. The aim of Norm is to facilitate business operations and citizens' everyday lives by streamlining and reforming regulation. This will support Finland’s growth, strengthen its competitiveness and promote digitalisation. In the Private Road Act, deregulation appears to be lighter and, above all, clearer regulation. Given the particular nature of private road law as a law serving citizens, particular attention has been paid to the way in which standards are dismantled. Attention has been drawn to the fact that regulation would be clearer and smoother and that legislation would allow for more flexible approaches. On the other hand, attention has been paid to creating the best possible conditions for the development and maintenance of the private road network in the future. This involves drawing the line as to what is necessary to regulate the activities of citizens and businesses along private roads and what is unnecessary and rigidising the activities along the private road. The proposal seeks to strike a balance between the necessary and unnecessary regulation. Mr President! Reducing the tasks and obligations of municipalities is part of the Government's austerity and structural policy programme. The proposal would put an end to municipal road boards, which have so far provided private road operators with inter alia supply and dispute resolution services. Local authorities have made strong investments in road boards, and the change will increase the cost risk of road shareholders to some extent. On the other hand, the proposal would bring private road legislation into line with other Community legislation when actions for damages would be dealt with in the future by the District Court. Expertise in handling matters would also be improved by the future handling of private supply issues related to private individuals in private road deliveries conducted under the direction of the Land Survey or the municipal building formation authorities. Efforts have been made to prevent an increase in the cost risk of road shareholders by enabling the introduction of an internal road adjustment procedure and by making it possible for roads to replace administrative procedures with their own decisions. Mr President! The Government's Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions tip project is promoted by improving the operating conditions of the business community. We want the transport chains of business to operate seamlessly, smoothly and predictablely even when there are private roads in the travel chain. The prerequisite for this is the good condition of private roads and the existence and timeliness of information on them. With regard to private funding, the aim of the proposal is to emphasise the "benefits to pay" principle in order to make the financing of private roads sustainable. The aim is to extend the base for paying for private roads to all operators who use or benefit from a private road. Since private roads are mainly financed by people living along a private road, in the name of fairness, it has been sought to clarify the principles in which external road use can be charged for the use of a private road. The aim of the proposal is to encourage the professionalisation of road maintenance by facilitating the authorisation of road maintenance to third parties. As a result of the change in the demographic and age structure, knowledge and voluntary spirit along private roads are in danger of disappearing, creating challenges for the road maintenance of private roads and the condition of private roads. Professional road testing would ensure a level of road maintenance and more efficient operating models. In the context of the regional reform, it has been proposed to delegate the role of state aid for private roads to the provinces. In this proposal, provision has been made for the transfer to be made for the reduction of the grant criteria in order to ensure that the regions have a wide range of freedom of choice in terms of the target areas. In the future, state aid would no longer be linked to the criterion of permanent housing, but eligible private roads would be all organised private roads with up-to-date information on information systems. Private road laws play an important role in the functioning of the entire transport system and in the daily lives of citizens. A new private road law has long been needed to clarify and facilitate activities along private roads. The proposal for this legislation, which is very important for our transport system, has now been submitted to Parliament. I hope that the proposal will receive a positive response and that we will now implement this much-needed and necessary reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u158	Mr President! Fifty-five years went by and the world changed, and we have a minister who put the cripple on ice, and we were finally able to reform this law. I myself have put this into practice for twenty years as chairman of such a small road. This world has changed greatly, and with this reform the road delivery tasks will be transferred from the municipality to the Land Survey, except for the station plan areas where the municipality has assumed the responsibility for real estate registration in the site plan area. The resolution of the complaints concerning the decisions of the faculties would be passed directly to the district court from the road. The reform would improve expertise in dealing with private matters. The road boards of municipalities would remain in history, and municipal policy-making would not be a problem in the future for private road decision-making. And I claim that this is often the case, which means that political motives have, in spite of everything, absolutely influenced the functioning of the road boards. In my view, this reform has its own link to the reform of the district court. The Government will improve the legal security and security of citizens by enhancing the competence of district courts by focusing decision-making on larger and competent courts. In that regard, the time for the political play of the married men is over. In other words, land law matters are handled directly by the district court after the decision of the municipality. Until now, these complaints have gone to municipal administration. It may have taken six months for the appeal to be brought before the municipal road board. Because of the complexity of matters, these matters have often been handled by a lawyer. This has resulted in considerable costs which, unfortunately, are not covered by various legal insurance policies on the basis of insurance criteria and have cost the public money. Only after the municipal stage has been reached in the courtroom of the neutral district court. In addition, the expertise of municipal road boards has been diverse when laymen have had to familiarise themselves with difficult legislation. It can now be said that the municipality can focus on its own mission. Mr President! Another good thing about the reform is that you do not have to immediately appeal to the district court to decide on the road. The cost can be saved by making a request for correction of the decision of the private road. So now we can still negotiate without going into a costly district court procedure. Today, that courtship is quite expensive and valuable. The government's proposal makes it easier to set up a road. It's important. There is no longer a need for an official road system, but if this proposal is carried out, those living under the influence of the road could set up a road body without a road supply from the Land Survey Institute. Facilitating the establishment is important, as less than half of our country’s holiday homes are estimated to be located on private roads and there are about 390000 kilometres of private roads. Finnish private holiday costumes therefore pay a considerable part of the maintenance of the roads of Finnish society. So, in the future, those who live along the road would be allowed to join together without that complexity, there is no need for expensive road delivery. So the partners in our country's private roads are paying a large part of the money for the management of the road network, and when that minister also said that in the regional reform the provinces would receive more of that money, the hope is that in committee this will be given attention so that the regions can have money and then the roads kept in order. The good thing about this is that the road and the road can then be handled in a business-driven and city-driven way in the future, so that many heirs can do their part through the roads. Finally, the reform emphasises the principle of "benefits to pay". This is good. So whoever uses the road to the road will pay for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u159	Mr President! In principle, the draft law under discussion on private roads is to be welcomed and necessary. Whether a multifaceted reform of the 10 is appropriate will be proved by time. Therefore, the law in force dates from 63 C.E., so an update is needed. Many roads have been shut down and many new ones have been created. The grant criteria have also changed several times, as have the annual grants. Future changes that are important for society include the reorganization of interconnectors related to regional reform and the traffic cycle. The municipal road boards would be abolished in so far as there are no more municipal road boards. In many municipalities, matters relating to the private sector have long ago been assigned to technical commissions or the like. The treatment of permits in connection with the removal of buildings and vegetation and derogations from building restrictions would be transferred to municipal building control authorities. Administrative matters would be transferred to the government licensing and control agency to be set up in connection with the regional reform. Delivery tasks related to new road policies or re-routings of old would be transferred to the Land Survey Institute or municipal property formation authorities if the road is in the plan area and the municipality has assumed the responsibility for real estate registration in the plan area. A solution to the criticisms of decisions of the faculties would be passed to district courts, which is what is now in the most serious road disputes. In this context, it can be said that many authorities have been informed over the years that judges and rapporteurs of district courts have not had sufficient expertise in private road matters. That is why there are many examples in our country that private disputes are going on at different levels of complaint. I hope that, now that the bill transfers all the blame cases to the District Courts, it will be ensured that the so-called judge of land or roads has sufficient expertise. The draft law suggests that administrative procedures should be reduced in the establishment, distribution, merger and termination of the road and could be carried out without delivery. The proposal is more than acceptable. Between the lines of the bill it appears that private roads would be classified into different categories on the basis of social importance. At the same time, that would be the basis for the grants. There are two sides to this: for example, a private road with an impact on society would receive continuous assistance in a case where the road connects two roads maintained by the state, in which case the road will be used for correction while collecting milk or wood from farms. The other side is that the long private road ends on the shore of Lake Korpijärvi and there are only a few houses all year round with other users mainly living in summer cottages. The maintenance of the long road requires significant costs for each road partner in this case. One way to ease the burden would be for the road to be among those who can make a reduction in VAT from the work and materials used for maintenance. In this case, one in five gravel loads would in principle be free of charge for the roads, now its load is taken by the state. I hope that the Minister will take this into account. Mr President! The total length of the road network is over 450,000 miles, and there are just under 400,000 private roads, including forest roads. About 100,000 miles [100,000 km] are served by permanent settlements, some one million people. Thus, there are 3.5 times more private roads than the total number of roads and streets maintained by the state and municipalities. I just want to show by this that, thanks to the Minister, he has increased the grant of state aid to the private sector from 8 to 13 million, and that he will come next year. But when these millions are counted, the road shareholders will have to pay for these roads, the use, the repairs and the construction of bridges. My question is this: surely no one who lives here in Mannerheimintie will be burdened like these few private road partners in the remote countryside?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u160	Mr President! The proposal proposes a new private road law to replace the law on private roads that entered into force in 1963. Private legislation will be clarified and modernised in terms of both the way in which it is written and the content. Unnecessary, obsolete and overlapping provisions would be removed. This sounds good, so there's a lot of good in the presentation — but also something that's still a little bit on your mind. The reform of the Private Road Act will change many things in terms of kilometres in Finland's largest road network. In the future, the municipal road boards will cease and the handling of road deliveries will be transferred to the municipal building formation authority or the Land Survey, which will deal with all road supply matters in the future. In future, permits for the removal of buildings and vegetation would be processed by the municipal building authorities. In the road area, it would be up to the road shareholders to decide independently to invest in different types of land-based real estate and community-based management. Landowners' permission to invest in them would no longer be necessary. Criticisms and disputes against the decisions of the road would be dealt with in district courts. It is interesting to see whether litigation will increase in the future or whether the proposal will clarify the management of road matters, as is intended. Road issues have been those that, for example, employ a lot of people and are not simple and clear. Roads could set up and tie together the partners without a separate private road delivery. The use of administrative coercive measures for the assessment of municipal street maintenance and road maintenance will be transferred to the State Authorisation and Control Agency to be established in the context of the forthcoming regional reform. I think they'll have plenty of work to do in the future. In the future, the use of private roads should be authorised by third parties and may be subject to a charge imposed on them by the road. This does not increase costs for berrymakers and fungitors, because there will be no changes to everyman’s rights, these trips when they do not increase the maintenance costs of the road. But what kind of road rights do fishermen and hunters have? Hunting and fishing are not everyman’s rights, but they also do not increase road maintenance costs. In future, according to the decision of the shareholders, the roads may lay down rules for the private road in which the specified matters can be agreed in contrast to the law. At the same time, it is possible for them to outsource the entire road. The criteria for state aid for private roads are also to be revised. The criteria would be the organisation of the road and the completeness, transparency and timeliness of information on the road. The allocation of these state grants would be transferred to the regions from 2020. Government grants to private individuals have been declining for many years. At present, the basic level of the state grant allocation for private roads is EUR 3 million. During this Government period, a total of EUR 30 million was added to it for the years 2016-2019. I am well aware that this reform will dismantle regulations, promote the emergence of new business activities and contribute to ensuring the smooth operation of business transport. At the same time, the responsibilities of road construction, maintenance and movement should be clarified and clarified. I believe that the rights of landowners in particular should be taken into account more closely. This will save unnecessary litigation and police degrees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u161	Mr President! Finland is a country of private roads. Of the 450,000 km of road in Finland, 360,000 kilometers are private roads. The cost of maintaining a typical private road is estimated to be approximately EUR 1000 per kilometre per year. It is therefore a matter of significant sums for the partners in the field of science. It is high time that the private road law of the 1960s was finally fashioned in modern times. Unfortunately, Finland is also a country of road disputes. The use and maintenance of roads are the subject of a dispute both at road meetings and in courts. Of the 499 cases decided by district courts in 2016, 165 related to road cases. And how many arguments remain between the neighbors when the fear of court costs does not dare to go to court? Only a few roads have taken out liability insurance for their responsible persons. The responsibilities and rights of the various parties with regard to the construction, maintenance and movement of private roads certainly need to be clarified. If the success of this law is to be assessed, the development of the number of road disputes is a good indicator. Mr President! The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal draws attention to the ageing of Finns. People are greying especially in sparsely populated areas along private roads. It affects not only the ability to maintain a private road but also the ability to manage the road system. If the average age of the members of the road is over 70, as many private roads already have, the clarity and clarity of the law governing the use and maintenance of the road is of paramount importance. In no case should there be a situation in which the case-law applicable to the interpretation of the new private road law will only take place through ex ante cases, over the years. If there is something good to say about the old private road, then its interpretation is well established as a result of long case law. The reform of the private road law must not increase uncertainty about the interpretation of the law. About a month ago, when a relative became ill as the secretary of the road council, I would have been in trouble without the backs of an established legal interpretation. Fortunately, the case law — for example, on the compulsory membership of the road and on the payment of road repair after a tree has been driven — is so clear that there was no room for a dispute, even though it was a matter of substantial sums at individual level. After this experience, I can only thank the government for its efforts to encourage road shareholders to organise themselves and to maintain administrative information on private roads. The majority of Finnish roads are still unorganized, and matters are settled by word of mouth in a mailbox. It'll work out as long as everything works out. In any case, information on private roads and advice on the roads are critical to the success of this legislative reform. Otherwise, when the law comes into force, we will find ourselves in a situation where, especially for the elderly of small roads, the elderly partners do not know what the law obliges them to do and justify them. I would therefore oblige the municipal road boards, or whoever now has their tasks, to be held responsible for giving the roads within their territory the basic knowledge of the most important changes to the new private road law. Mr President! As a detail, I would like to draw attention to the right of the roads to decide on the location of the cables to be placed on a private road without the permission of the landowner. This is an interesting performance, and when it comes to it, it can create entirely new, exciting road disputes in addition to those of the past. I will look into this carefully, because the potential benefits are also great. The delegation of tasks to the municipal road boards also raises questions to other authorities, to which I expect answers from the expert consultation. Private roads are local roads and their best expertise is for local operators. This, of course, exposes decisions to local personal disputes and politicisation, as Mrs Torvinen pointed out earlier. However, with the reform of the law, the responsibilities of representatives of the public authorities threaten to become excessive. Threatening to justice is already a common deterrent at the meetings of the faculties. There is a risk that the roads will no longer find care units and trustees. In any case, roads should be strongly encouraged to take out liability insurance for their trusts. In any event, when the law comes into force, it must be ensured that, for example, complaints about decisions taken by the roads can be handled in a professional way, knowing the local circumstances. How well a district court can do this remains to be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u162	Mr President! Private roads play an important role in Finland. The total number of private roads is 360,000 miles [360,000 km], and there are half a million inhabitants of permanent settlements along these banks. There are summer cottages on the banks of private people, there are forest cars along them, and in the bioeconomy, especially when you want to promote it, private roads play a big role because they are used for wood maintenance and biomass. Everyman's rights are also something we can use for private roads. The law in force dates back to 1963 and is unhelpably obsolete, and we therefore need a change. Competences in organisation, maintenance and decision-making have been compromised for those living along private roads when generations have changed and shareholders live far away from their destination. This has been seen in the worsening condition of private roads. The world has changed around us, but above all, I think it is important that technological solutions, digitality, are also included in how these private roads can continue to be maintained. New solutions must also be created for the financing of private roads, and once the centre has been in the government, we have always made sure that private roads have received funding, and hopefully also in the future. That EUR 13 million is a small sum, but it has also made it possible to improve you. The benefit-to-pay situation is now being used, i.e. the roads will then be able to generate revenue from the one who uses it in the future: municipalities, state and provinces will become shareholders, for example, if it is used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u163	Värderade Herr Talman! Regeringens proposition till förnyad lag om enskilda vägar gäller en lag som inte förnyats på 50 år. Förslaget ärkommet. Regeringens proposition innehåller förslag om att i högregrad överlåta väghållningen till professorella aktörer. Finländska stugägare bedöms som ointresserade av vägunderhåll i jämförelse med tidigare, vilket har medfört consekenser för myndigheter och näringsliv som använt undermåligt scötta enskilda vägar i sin verksamhet. Genom att uppdatera register över enskilda vägar och deras skick vill man nu skapa incitament för vägförvaltningsföretag att sköta större helheter av enskilda vägar och let infrastruktur, samtidigt som man möjliggör för flera oika samhällela aktörer att vara vägdelägare. Jag ser positivt på helhetsförslaget då det kan skapa positiva ekonska effekter för näringslivet och positiva externa effekter för resten av samhället, då vägarnas skick i sin helhet torde bli battre. Regeringen föreslår även i sin proposition att man inte längre behöver be markägaren om lov för att installationra el- och dataledningar samt övriga lätta anläggningar och constructioner på vägområdet. Då endast väglagets godkännande krävs för dylika installationer blir förfarandet smidigare, vilket gynnar såväl leverantörer som de fastigheter som finns på det område som vägen betjänar. Utgångspunkten i detta förslag är bra då det minskar byråkrati och på så vis skapar effektivitet och spaar pengar samhälls ekonomiskt. Man måste ändå försäkra sig om att man inte kränker den privata äganderätten på något sätt och det måste vi försäkra oss om i utskottsbehandlingen. Hur som helst verkar förslaget rimligt då det utan tvekan skulle minska på byråkrati och avskaffa mycket pappersskyfflande.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u164	Mr President! Private roads are a very important part of the Finnish road network. All in all, there are some 360,000 kilometres of private roads and about half a million Finns are permanently living along them. In addition to those who live along a private road, they are also used by many other people besides those who live along them. They are used by companies, leisure dwellers, business and so on. I live on a private road myself, and I can tell this when I look out the window. The existing private road law of 1963 is now being modernised and simplified. Private roads are now largely managed on a voluntary basis. Now the new private road law will continue to allow voluntary and professional road maintenance, and I believe that this will certainly be the way forward in the future. In future, the distribution of state correction grants will be transferred to the provinces. The private aid criteria will be reduced by leaving the organisation of the private road and the existence, timeliness and transparency of information on the private road as the aid criteria. A major change in principle in the draft law is that in addition to permanent housing, the distribution of private road benefits can in future also focus on the needs of leisure housing and business life and various local issues. Through the road, road shareholders are given the right to decide on the placement of wires and associated minor equipment in the private road area. This will probably also cause debate in the future. When municipal road boards are abolished with the reform, their tasks and responsibilities must be clear to the roads and to the members of the roads. The bill clarifies the responsibilities of building, maintaining and moving private roads. According to the law, third parties are, in principle, required to obtain authorisation for the use of private roads and such use may be subject to a charge. Private roads receiving municipal or state aid are certainly not private roads, but private roads. However, authorisation to use the road would not be required for activities which do not clearly increase the maintenance costs of the road. In future, the bill will allow municipalities, provinces or the state to become a road partner in cases where they direct public transport to private roads. Private roads are the necessary capillaries of the road network in Finland and their funding must be maintained at least at the current level in the future. The fact that this EUR 13 million has now been made available with separate funding for next year is a good thing, and I personally hope that it will be at least at the same level in the future. That will then be the decision of the future governments. I personally hope that level is at least that level. Therefore, the private road money to be allocated to the provinces must be considered separate from the general funding of the provinces. I personally hope that this will also be done in the new regional reform. Similarly, in the area of regional reform, I think we should also consider whether and whether we should set up our own road boards in the regions, which would distribute this money so that the money does not go into that big, big pot.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u165	Mr President! This change in the private road legislation is also a great deal of red tape, and it is dismantling in that practical life, which makes it easier for ordinary road partners to take care of things. The problem is that these municipal road boards will be closed down and then the nearby place of instruction, advice and questions will disappear. We should also consider how we would receive counsel to the public authorities on this matter. In my opinion, at least I did not yet find the content of this proposal, in which way ordinary people will be helped to sort these things out. The second point is this financial issue. Mr Torniainen has already made a good point about what the problem is. 13 million is a very small amount of money for this society as a whole, but for the roads it is very important money. That money has done a great deal. Even though it is a small amount of money that has been added, the truth is that the really large sums come from the night of talent and the work of the road shareholders what they are doing there with their own tractors and others. In the future, it would be very important for this money to be earmarked for the management of roads in the new provinces — this would be very important — and for the regions themselves to consider the responsibility for helping the roads as a whole. This money really plays an important role in keeping Finland as a whole inhabited. Finland is not considered to be a resident, but Finland remains a resident, and in order for it to remain a resident, we help the operations to move forward. On financial matters, let's just say: It is good that, in the future, all private roads, i.e. not just those with permanent settlements, will be able to receive funding, because we have a very large number of places where people once lived. There are old houses, but they are now people’s resorts, and other business activities are also there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u166	Mr President! Back in the day, when I started my own political career, I had the opportunity to serve as a court-martial for a while. In that capacity, I did see this diversity of private road legislation and the innovation of Finns in how to be difficult for a neighbor. Now, in that sense, this bill is very welcome to clarify this situation and simplify the rules and legislation, responsibilities and so on. I hope that this bill will proceed quickly and I believe that the committee will get a good reading. Still positive is the fact that municipal tasks are at last being reduced. This is a concrete reduction in the role of municipalities, and the objectives of the Government Programme will also be realised in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u167	Mr President! As a shareholder of several private roads, and even as chairman of the road, I was very pleased to note this legislative reform: the law of the 1960s is finally being changed to this day and a lot of unnecessary articles are being removed along with this reform. In practice, with the ageing of the population and the transition to the growth centres of the rural population, knowledge has also genuinely begun to disappear, and such rustic skills in maintaining the private road have gradually shifted away. They may no longer be able to keep you in the condition in which they have been kept until now. I also welcome this change in the right of appeal that it will be transferred from the municipal road boards to the courts. Quite often the situation has been that the neighbour has complained about it and then the villagers are deciding for themselves on the same matter, when such a legal basis for legal proceedings has been a long way off and there have generally been some other grounds than those legal grounds for making that decision. This is now the way to get that legal stuff involved in private road matters, so this is a very good reform. Of course, there is a risk that costs will increase. I personally do not see it as a great threat, but rather as an attempt to steer the debate and the negotiating link to the fact that the matters of the road are genuinely handled from the point of view of the road and not as the mediation body of the neighbour's disputes. So this is such a better trend that they actually start to visit those road-related things. I also consider this user pays principle to be a very good reform. In our region, the network divides arable areas, and quite often the road network has been used by the Finnish Transport Agency without separate compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u168	Mr President! Indeed, after decades this is good, and the objectives of this law are very well-founded. It is understandable that relief is needed with regard to these payment arrangements, and that is why there are quite a few other changes to the law on land use and construction, the law on outdoors and such laws that I did not even know existed, there was quite a litany there. Very necessary. But then I have a few questions. This will not enter into force until 2020. All this argument, I understand, would be possible in this respect, even as early as the beginning of next year, in 2018, but now that this has been combined with these tasks to be transferred from municipalities to provinces and the transfer of funding from the state to the provinces, that is why now this good reform, at least in the main, which I have now understood, will be moved forward by two years. And, of course, the question then comes as to what cooperation between municipalities and regions is, how cooperation between municipalities will work in the future, because the municipalities have also financed private roads to date. Although those committees are now legally out of there, in practice they have already been out so far. After all, in the regions, the budget is universal, so that in the future, private roads will compete for the same kind of social funding or for the financing of employment — at least this is the way they want to be. Therefore, perhaps I would ask the Minister whether it was possible to think that this private road law, insofar as it concerns the facilitation of red tape, payment arrangements and so on, would have been made now to make this move forward, because there is still a slight doubt that everything is not going on schedule with this provincial law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u169	Mr President! As a lawyer, I myself have had to be involved in information and road delivery disputes for a certain amount of time. Well, I'm not exactly a deep expert on them, but I'm bringing you a few questions to say hi. Now I'm taking this opportunity to have the minister present. I was looking at the regulations here and I noticed that there are some changes to the real estate law but this is not about to change the system of men who are believed in themselves. The road boards in the municipalities will cease, and of course they will cease to use the trusted men there, but the Earth Survey Institute will use editorial engineers and there will, in principle, be no lawyers involved. It was mentioned here that, in that regard, Mr Pylväs spoke about this, there was a need for that legalism in many other matters, not to become a mere dispute over disagreement, and I would have asked whether there was any thought of getting some legal knowledge in the Land Survey. In these cases, in which I have been involved, there have been procedural problems in the hearing. No statements have been sent to the counterparty in advance for information, it has been assumed that they will be answered on the spot and, when so-called legal procedural claims have been made, they have not been taken seriously but have continued the process. Unfortunately, it is also sometimes the case that if there is a mistake in the surveying of land, there may be no further change in procedural matters at a later stage, because you still have to answer it, or if the layman has gone to answer it and has not refused to deal with it, then it will no longer be addressed and it will be considered that, well, he has answered in the surveying exercise, and the ground law has no longer addressed this problem. I would like to think about this, because these things are becoming more complicated and legalised. There are very complex burdens on top of each other, and laymen may not be able to claim their rights if there is no lawyer. Lawyers take careful care of these hearings and procedural matters in the sense that a person must have the right to know the material so that he does not have to go cold to answer. These are very big things. So that's what I would have asked you. Then it was mentioned that there would be some change in the licensing procedure and the operating compensation process, and, as I recall, Mrs Torniainen said that the authorisation or compensation would come if the use of the outside clearly increases the use or wear of the road, and so forth. What does that mean? If regular irregularly someone outside passes to correct it, how can you interfere with this kind of thing? Is there any way to prevent it or claim compensation for it? I think Congressman Torniainen mentioned a regular car, a car used by an authority, but if it is only occasional, can you still order or go to charge for it? Then how do you control it? I was also thinking about it when there are no lawyers and there is no court of law, especially in land surveying — well, there are lawyers, of course, but it is good that this education is coming. Some of the decisions of the Supreme Court there I read, including the Supreme Court 2008:39, and it is very interesting that we had to go all the way to the Supreme Court before we could understand that man had taken up an old farm and that the old road was right next to the house. Even the land law and the supply engineers had still considered that self-inflicted and clearly conscious action, that the house has been restored and then such an old road court has gone by that side and that it has been a reasonable reason to ask for the road to be transferred. So somehow it feels like the road court is sometimes tougher than the right to property, that it is not necessarily understood that the world is changing. I do not know whether this legislation is altering any of the too rigid case-laws. Not everyone can and will be able to go to the back wall of the Supreme Court because of the financial situation, if you even get permission to appeal. Then I would have asked the question when, in the Real Estate Construction Act, you really get the men entrusted to the road delivery and the Land Survey if one of the parties so requests. There is also an increase in costs. After all, these trusted men are not lawyers, they are persons designated by the municipal council, and such feelings have arisen in small towns, even though it has not been possible to demonstrate that, for example, a cityman who is involved in a road dispute does not feel terribly equal when there are two local councillors from a municipality of 2,000 inhabitants or from a smaller one. In other words, when you really get another party to go there, there will then be a surveyor who is not a lawyer, and then there will be two local trusted men, and then there will be a cityman and then there will be a local one, and that does not necessarily seem objectively unimpeded. After all, things are often what they look like, and if a person in such a situation does not fully enforce his rights, then trust in that delivery will be quite seriously shaken. I do not know whether this belongs directly to Minister Berner right now, but I would really like to see attention paid to this. This is a pretty old-fashioned system, like a local trusted man. These are such legal matters, and the municipality has the right to speak in the municipal area, so I would think about these. People are getting in touch with this a little bit. If you read these Supreme Court rulings, there are some funny decisions here. In particular, I feel that this legal expertise will be forgotten there in the early stages and then there have already been so many legal problems. I would like attention to be paid to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u170	Mr President! As has been pointed out, this proposal is de-bureaucratic. But then just such a practical thing that ordinary people are very much touched by the fact that in the future, in accordance with this law, it is no longer necessary to ask the landowner permission, necessarily the landowner will not even know in advance what is happening to his country. For example, there may be trees, shrubs that can be important and important to the landowner, small land destinations, there may be anything there, and then the landowner may not even know that they will be touched, they will be cut down. These may not be so much money, they may be very much emotional, and these are the things of the aggressors very much, but important. Similarly, in the future, there will be no need at all for land cables, wires, small structures related to the private way, the landowner’s permission or even awareness. How, then, have these matters been taken into account now, and how can we ensure that landowners are still aware of what will happen in their countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u171	Mr President! This government proposal really is good and expected. There is also a significant amount of deregulation and reduction of standards here. As far as the role of landowners is concerned, what Mrs Maijala has just pointed out is that when the road supply is made and the road area is defined, after which the area is defined, the area must remain in the area and the landowner will be heard in that connection, but then the situation will be different: if there is a contractor who does not know the boundaries of the road area, then of course the road will also have an obligation on the road to find out where the measures are taken and all the scrapeings and other things will be done within the road area and not in the inalienable area of the landowner. But then there is one thing that I am going to draw attention to here — including the representative. However, the column made a good example of the matter — that is, the fact that now that the appeal process is going away from the roads and going to the district court, as is well described here on page 25 of the government’s proposal, the cost is quite different. But, of course, it must be remembered that there must always be fewer disputes, and in order to be able to deal with all these matters, this particular road area must also be scrupulously defined. But is there sufficient cost calculations here to determine what kind of burden this is really going to entail? However, there are inevitably some of these disputes, which are considerably more expensive. Is there sufficient evidence here that this is also acceptable on the basis of equality and justice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u172	And now, Minister Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u173	Mr President! Thank you also for this debate. A few points of view, including those raised by Mrs Majala: In most cases landowners are also road shareholders themselves, and it could be possible to invest in the pipelines without the permission of the landowner only in the road area, not outside it, so that it would then need the permission of the landowner. It has been said in the preparatory work that the expertise of the Land Survey is generally good and high when it comes to private matters and, of course, training is always needed. Authorisation is required to use the road for regular and temporary transport, regular transport and maintenance activities. It is not necessary to travel on a random basis, nor to walk by everyman’s right. No changes to the Act on the Construction of Buildings have been envisaged for the men entrusted. Delivery may also be carried out without entrusted men if they are not considered necessary. Otherwise, this will be a relief in the sense that the establishment, division, consolidation and abolition of roads will not require a private road delivery, but will be agreed upon by the road shareholders. At the same time, the possibility of self-correcting ensures that there is an opportunity to agree also outside this law. The State, the municipalities and the provinces may become road shareholders if, for example, it is considered that the State’s action generates costs for the use of the private road. In this case, the State may also be obliged to do so. Private aid criteria are greatly facilitated, and here, perhaps differently from what Mr Mäkipää said, there are no classifications coming, but in principle it is enough that there is a private road and that it is recognised and defined. From that point of view, this whole will be reduced. An interesting entity, as Mr Plant said here, is the aim of making the wiring and cables to the road area defined in the private delivery and that it could then be agreed without the permission of the landowner. Here, as you said, there is a very great opportunity, but it is also extremely important that we move forward so that there is no new subject of disagreement. I appreciate that you are also prepared to study this point. I personally see that this is an important opportunity for us to find a solution, then again from the point of view of our digitalisation and other development. We would also like to see to it that this law is possible and that it is not a question of the need to reform road maintenance with the reform, to take it to professional road maintenance. We can also continue in the old way, we can also take care of the voluntary group, but at the same time, when there is no such readiness, it is also possible to take this road maintenance towards a more professional whole. All in all, this is also an important legislative reform, and that is the question of how we are going to ensure precisely this preservation of knowledge and also that we genuinely have the importance of ownership, the respect and the starting points associated with it, but also that everyman's right is taken care of. Here, too, I hope that the committee will make good progress on this, and I am, of course, also happy to be available for further work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u174	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 18/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u175	Mr President! Of course, we should also take the floor on this very important issue. This is, after all, the repeal of this census law, which has not been necessary since 80 C.E. It is appropriate to thank the Administrative Committee for its excellent work on this report, and when it comes to this historic situation, I thought that perhaps the whole report should be read in this speech. The report therefore states: 'On the basis of the reasons for the government proposal and the report it has received, the Administrative Committee considers that this proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment." I should like to congratulate the Committee on Administrative Affairs on the fact that it is often impossible to see such a concise report in this Chamber. There might even be more praise, but when you have been doing this yourself, perhaps you should keep the candle under the stabilizer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u176	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u177	Natcha has come to work in Finland at her relative's restaurant. He's not quite sure everything's the way it should be. Even at the airport, the owner of the restaurant recovered his passport and told him that the salary would not initially be paid, but would be used to cover travel expenses. Natcha can sleep on the floor in the restaurant kitchen. Natcha suspects that working in Finland should not be like this, but does not know what to do. If he went to the police, I'm sure he'd be fired. Without work and social security, he has no choice but to return home with a debt taken for a trip to his home village. Alejandro works in a greenhouse on Earth. He likes his job well, but he misses his children. The salary is too low to allow the family to come to Finland, and Alejandro's work permit is not allowed to work in other fields. Irina and Kari were married in the same church where Kar’s parents had once married. Then there was a setback. According to the authority’s assessment, their marriage is not genuine and Irina is not entitled to a residence permit for a family member. Kari does not give up hope yet, as he has heard that 40 per cent of the decisions taken by the Snow Federation are overturned in the administrative court. However, further evidence of cohabitation should be provided for the appeal. Karin’s brother promises to hire Irina to work at his shop, and they apply for a work permit for this purpose. The decision is negative, as the TE Office considers that sellers are available from within the EU region. When Irina can't work, we both have to do well on Kar's carpenter's salary. But together, they've decided to live. Irina is then unauthorized in Finland until the complaint is processed. Mr President! We are dealing with an initiative to propose the abolition of the right of access to foreign law. If a third-country national wishes to work in Finland, he/she usually has to apply for a work permit. In this context, the Authority will assess whether a person can be found in the EU and EEA area for the task in question. This phase of the work permit process is referred to as the availability exercise. Currently, the question of availability is of little importance in regulating the Finnish labour force. The majority of the foreign labour force comes from the EU and therefore no authorisation is required. A third-country national can also be employed without a work permit if he/she has another residence permit that entitles him/her to work. In addition, the examination of availability applies only to the areas of work carried out, where the agricultural sector, the metal sector, the cleaning sector, the construction sector and the restaurant sector have also been removed from all parts of Finland. Thus, only a few thousand work permits pass through the availability test every year. On the other hand, the proportion of negative sub-decisions is so high that an employee who is subject to an access assessment cannot treat the process as an ad hoc procedure. Although the importance of the system for the labour market is limited, in individual cases it may pose serious problems. Mr President! It is relatively easy for a company to circumvent the concept of availability, and therefore, on the employer side, its difficulty is more related to bureaucracy than to the availability of labour. Typically, work permits are applied for either for agricultural sectors requiring seasonal labour or for service sectors where the recruitment heart rate is rapid. The months' permit process is not compatible with that. From an employee’s point of view, the question of availability is then more problematic. It makes it difficult to change jobs or to work more often even when the employer has obvious difficulties in complying with the appropriate working conditions. The availability assessment also undermines the security of employment. Such a situation arises when a person has originally been employed by another type of permit and, when he expires, he or she is applying for a work-related residence permit. The employer will then be obliged to submit an open job search to prove that no EU or EEA citizen is available. In these situations, the initial objective of the availability analysis is reversed. Instead of protecting employment already here, it puts all unemployed people in the EU and the EEA ahead of third-country nationals already present here. This is not a very small phenomenon, as one third of applications for work permits are submitted from Finland. In some situations, access testing prevents people from seeking out intolerable circumstances. This is the case, for example, if a person persists in a violent relationship in order not to risk his or her job and stay in the country. In many cases of occupational abuse or trafficking in human beings, the person has also had a work permit under the availability test. Mr President! In the debate raised by the bill, the removal of the availability test has been feared to lead to an uncontrolled rush of labour from third countries. No known fact supports this threat. In Sweden, the examination of availability was completely abolished in 2008. The reform slightly increased the labour force from third countries, but not significantly. In addition, the partial removals of the availability analysis carried out in Finland have not caused migratory waves. The condition of a work-related residence permit is that the applicant already has an employer in Finland who is willing to explain to the TE Office the terms of employment and the ability to take care of the employer’s obligations. Entrepreneurs do not favour this slow and pre-monitored channel when the workforce is available in the EU and EEA without corresponding friction factors. Therefore, decisions relevant to the number of foreign workers were taken in connection with Finland’s membership of the EU. Another key argument in favour of maintaining access considerations is the claim that its removal would increase illegal licensing and labour exploitation. In this context, reference has again been made to Sweden's experience, unfortunately incorrectly. It is known that in Sweden there is labour exploitation, underpaid employment and permit trade and that foreign workers are particularly vulnerable in this respect. This phenomenon is real, well documented and unfortunately common in the Finnish labour market. On the other hand, there is no evidence that the removal of the availability test has increased or deepened these problems. The initiative therefore assumes that the increase in legal options will have the opposite effect. All supervision of working conditions is based on sufficient autonomy of the employee. Public oversight can be used to check the documents, but it is usually only the employee who can tell about the cash charges or hours worked outside the working time records. Typically, foreign workers dare to tell about abuse only after they have secured a new job. However, the work permit allows a new job only in the sector to which it was originally granted. If the sector is small or its employers know each other well, it can be difficult to change jobs. The acquisition of a new job in another sector requires a renewal of the entire work permit process, and the outcome is uncertain due to the availability analysis. This will make the system of work and residence permits a key factor determining the negotiating position and options of foreign workers. The conditioning of work and residence produces too adaptive, too much consenting labour. At the same time, the grey labour market will grow. Mr President! What if there were no availability consideration, how would it change the lives of our examples? Natcha got a new job at her other relative's hair salon. After securing his livelihood and thus remaining in the country, he finally ventured into the local trade union to ask for help in the collection of wages. This case is progressing to a federal investigation. Alejandro is now working as a nearby nurse, and he also has training. Children are in Finland. To support his family, Alejandro must continue to clean up the offices after work, and often he is very tired. But the important thing is that they get to be together. Irina works at her brother-in-law's shop now. Her and Kar's marriage will soon be considered in the administrative court, and they believe the evidence will be sufficient this time. Because Irina's pregnant. The question of availability is not a curse of an evil witch, when all the problems disappear. There will certainly still be excessive situations in the Finnish labour market tomorrow. There is certainly still a lot to be done for a better life and a better working life. However, it is essential whether the removal of the availability test will lead to an improvement or a weakening of the current situation, and the argument of the initiative is that the improvement will be made. Mr President! I propose that the initiative be sent to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. Since the initiative has many sides and perspectives, we have agreed with the co-signator Juhana Vartiainen that he will also use the presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u178	There is only one point to make, but we will take Mr Vartiainen's speech and then go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u179	Mr President! Our initiative has, in a delightful way, gathered support from all parts of the political field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u182	It is now possible to use the replies, some requests have been made here. I'll ask you to report. — First, Mr Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u183	Madam President! The Social Democrats support work-related immigration, but it is controlled. We need more experts, we have good practices today. An interesting debate here is a comparison with Sweden, because Sweden is the only one in the European Union — the only one — where this change has been made in such a way as to eliminate the question of access. In all the 27 other countries, access testing is still in place. Last week we visited Japan, where access testing is very strict, but they want experts there too. We have just had a seasonal labour law in the Administrative Committee, which makes it possible for seasonal workers to come to tourism and farms. At the same time, it made it easier for ict experts to come here. We need employees, but with the same working conditions and the same salaries. Since the current system of control does not work, we do not want to scrap this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u184	Mr President! It is precisely from the point of view of controlled immigration that it is extremely problematic to compare Sweden and the other countries of Western Europe in this way. In other Western European countries, there is a system of needs-testing that compares with the availability test, but it does not protect the labour market but protects the official labour market. In all these countries, there is a significant sector of grey work run by undocumented people. Admission is easy, access to employment is easy, but the official labour market is reserved exclusively for EU and EEA citizens. This is not such a model that Finland should take as an example now that we do not yet have these problems on a large scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u185	Mr President! The examination of the availability of labour is poorly in line with the objectives for which it was created at the time. The procedure further prolongs the costly and bureaucratic process of work permits. In urban areas in particular, the need for labour is faster than official processes can guarantee. This means that there is no work to be done and no tax money to be paid. A work permit subject to availability testing anchors a person in one sector and often one employer, because the right of residence of a person depends on it. The procedure puts people in an unequal position on the basis of human origin. That is why I am very disappointed that the government was not able to eliminate the question of the availability of labour, but I am very pleased that parliamentarians across party boundaries are more capable of the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u186	Mr President! Representative Vartiainen was pleased that an agreement has been found in all the parties. None of the Finns have signed this. In our view, this current situation, in which exemptions have already been considered in certain areas, is quite sufficient, and we can continue to look at them further, and that process can be made smoother. When I listened to both of these introductory speeches, it was true that who is being driven here and who are now being employed. Of course, the Coalition Party would like workers as cheaply as possible, and then again Mr Kontula seems to have this, that we will have as much immigration as possible here. In particular, the representative shall: According to the guard, there was to be a terribly broad heart and everything else, and yes, surely this is the way to love the whole world, but we cannot support the whole world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u188	Mr President! This is not exactly about supporting the whole world. Our economy and public finances would benefit from a larger workforce. When Sweden was brought up here, Sweden has now been a great economic success on a European and global scale, where Japan, due to its closed labour market, has been a very sick case as a national economy for the past decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u189	I remind the representatives that when they talk about their place, it is customary to stand up when they speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u190	Mr President! The debate on the question of availability needs patience and perspective. Patience is needed so that we do not fall into the wrong impressions or overindulgences, and it is necessary to set proportions so that we can see what size this is for the Finnish labour market. When we think that in Finland the workforce is about 2.7 million people, 2.7 million people, and it is related to these cases of access testing, which last year, for example, was only about 8,000, of which 1 000 were a negative decision, we see that this consideration of availability is by no means a significant case for the Finnish labour market in itself, which would change the labour market in some way in another way. On the other hand, President-in-Office, this is an important issue for individual workers who have arrived here, and the question of access is a matter of dependence on the employer, just as Mr Kontula well described in his opening speech. That is why we need to develop a fairer labour market. This includes not only the abolition of access, but also the abolition of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u191	Madam Speaker! Here the representative Vartiainen quoted the Bible, and so often happens outside its context. But perhaps the key message was that everyone is equal. Let me remind you of the second sentence, because the worker has earned his salary. I personally think it is very important that, when we consider this issue, we should be able to ensure that everything happens in a controlled manner, and indeed we will be able to ensure that both the working conditions and then the salary are what we have agreed on in the agreements. In that sense, in fact, this initiative by Mr Kontula is the last paragraph which says that 'there are, therefore, particularly strong grounds for monitoring the conditions of employment in this context', and I am a little concerned whether we really have this situation. In my group, more Members have signed this, but it is so important to me that this matter remains.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u192	Mr President! Work creates work. Anyone who works in Finland employs Finns, and that is why everyone who is employed in Finland is valuable regardless of which side of the Eta border he happens to come. The labour market is not a zero-sum game, it is a plus-sum game. There is no predetermined number of jobs in Finland, but just as many as there is demand for work, and that demand is created by work. When it is difficult to move to Finland, it leads to the use of posted workers and, if anything, eats work from Finnish companies. For example, there were workers from 35 different countries on the site of Koivusaari in West Metro and they took their wages when they left. The division of people into two in the labour market, although geography promotes the informal economy and exposes workers to exploitation. It is a national shame for us Finns that Finnish employers have acted as described by the representative Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u193	Mr President! Mr Meri has already raised one point, but let us stress once again that no representative of the Finnish People's Party has signed this bill. Unfortunately, however, in all other parliamentary parties, the signatories to the initiative were found, and the overwhelming majority of both government parties were found. It is a very unfortunate observation from the point of view of an ordinary Finnish worker. The importance of this need-reduction exercise has been justified and it was also justified today by Mr Vartiainen on the basis of a shortage of labour. This argument is not sustainable, because when a qualified worker arrives in Finland, he will get a work permit if there is indeed a shortage of labour and the paperwork is in order. On the other hand, the diversion that we need an enormous amount of labour from outside the EU and the EEA area is offensive to a Finnish worker suffering from unemployment. The answer to a change in the labour market is not to eliminate the question of access,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u194	Madam President! In my view, this abandonment of access can be justified from a number of points of view, both human and economic. To the previous speaker, Mr Savilo, I would like to say that if you have looked at our demographic pyramid, our dependency ratio, our birth rate statistics, it is obvious that we have a need for new taxpayers. Now, at its worst, access testing leads us to convert people who have already been employed, who are motivated, good employees that someone has wanted to hire. It is not in the interests of a normal Finnish person. But this human argument also weighs a lot on me here. In my view, the main problem here is that, at its worst, a work permit subject to access testing places an employee in a situation that is quite unreasonable in relation to the employer when the work and residence permit are tied together. It's hard to change jobs, if not impossible. This puts these people in a very vulnerable position and exposes them to exploitation. In a number of work-related cases
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u195	Mr President! Indeed, it is now time to put this scale right. When we look at both the EU, the EEA and the OECD countries, we really have one example of a country where access testing or an equivalent system has been abolished. It's Sweden. Everyone else has a system to control cross-border recruitment. If, then, we think that the Swedish example is so important that we want to seize it, it would have been done somewhere else. Or if the problems of having two labour markets were to be eliminated by removing the question of access from all these countries, that would probably have been done. When we look at this even further, it is very easy to simplify the fact that if the local shop now wants to hire a seller, then it is likely that the availability test will prevent it. If the next gaming company wants a specialist here, it can bring it without any control. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u197	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Räsänen that, after the decision on free movement in the EU, if the employer wants to exploit and acquire cheap labour, it is already possible for him. The employer’s obligations or Finnish working conditions will not be removed by it. It's already possible. Employers do not lose their obligations, and fortunately a large proportion of employers understand that well-being, motivated employees are also in the employer's interest and therefore it is worth taking care of their employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u198	Mr President! This is precisely what Mr Modig referred to: if this system is as good as you say it is now, then it would have been done and removed in other countries too. It is precisely here that we are talking about recruitment outside the EU and the EEA, and it has a similar system in place in all other countries. For example, Canada is often considered a model country for work-related immigration in Finland. What kind of system is there? There is an even stricter system for this than in Finland. When it is always said here in Finland that our system is somehow very conservative, that is not true when, in international comparison, Finland's labour immigration system is the most liberal from there. This would at least be good in this debate to acknowledge that we are not living in any vacuum with this issue. Smart sector-specific exceptions have been made in Finland, which have specifically responded to the fact that when there is a shortage of labour in some sectors, we can get those experts here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u199	Mr President! As I have already said, in other countries this matter has been resolved in another way, namely in the grey sector of millions of undocumented people. I don't think that's a good solution. I'd rather look for solutions in the direction of Sweden. As to whether a qualified employee always receives a work permit: Last Friday a case was reported about Lahti, where the parkour administrator wanted to hire an Iraqi parkour instructor who had worked for him for a year but now needed a work permit. He did not, because there are unemployed sports instructors in the locality, although none of the sports instructors who applied for a job had any experience of parvulsion. That entrepreneur is now going to have to hire this person to replace a sports director specializing in Zumba,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u200	Mr President! Indeed, it was nice to see that representatives of the social democrats were also found in this matter, in favour of the labour force, the Finnish worker. This bill had also been signed by several Social Democrats. In this whole debate, which I have listened to, these immigration ideas are going to go completely wrong and what is the role of work-related immigration in this regard. For most people, this seems to be just an issue of immigration ideology when it comes to work-related immigration. Sweden is certainly not a successful country in its immigration policy. In fact, it is probably the country that has failed most in its immigration policy throughout the world. I am rather surprised that you too, Mr Modig, are glowing. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u201	Madam President! Every one of us knows the fact that Finland is ageing and in the future we need working people from abroad. It's the only way our economy's gonna make it. We all know this, no matter how many people here want to deny it. The situation is that we have people who have received a Finnish job and who are willing to work to build this society, but they are being made more difficult to get a job and, in the worst case, are being prevented. So we are losing a lot of the workforce we need, and at the same time Finnish companies are losing an employee they need for their own business and their success. It is therefore natural that Finland should give up this consideration of availability, which makes it difficult both for entrepreneurs and for the future of Finland's economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u202	Mr President! I do not think that the issue of access should be completely abandoned, but there are things to be developed, and Mr Kontula has also raised these issues in his speech. The risk that Finnish workers will be replaced with cheaper labour will be fully removed from this availability analysis. This is a good example of Finnair, who has hired Asian temporary agency workers for flights to Asia, and there are about a quarter of the entire Finnair cabin crew. In 2014, the company threatened to switch all its long-distance destinations to Asian personnel if wages were not dropped by 20 per cent in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u205	Mr President! A lot has been invoked here for the example of Sweden. Well, Sweden has been a pioneer in many things, and in many cases, like Mr Räsänen, in other countries, there has been a terrible thing about what is strange about Sweden — long hair or an equal marriage or whatever. The fact is, however, that Sweden is certainly a pioneer in this area, and the liberal immigration regulations in Sweden can indeed be considered a success. Also, look at what has happened to unemployment and wages: In Sweden, wages have risen faster than in Finland and unemployment is lower and has been down all the time. If these threats were true, we would not see such things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u206	Mr President! When Mr Vartiainen has already brought up this example of Sweden, two examples will be taken: The second relates to the number of times in Sweden when the law was passed in 2008, it was said that the aim is precisely to attract experts. However, it was thought that the system is still demand-driven, i.e. the skills that Sweden needs. Well, now that we see where that greatest supply has come, it has come to those sectors that already had supply, and this has been recognised in Sweden. Another example relates to what Mr Vartiainen has also used in many cases to ensure that this abolition of the right to access is in some way able to speed up these permit processing periods significantly. What has happened in Sweden? In Sweden, processing times have increased. Why? Because there has been a new advance regulation. In that sense, too, we can take this example of Sweden, that when we talk about this matter, it is good to go through all this truth then and not so that each of us selects just what we want from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u207	Madam President! That is exactly what I would like to know, Mr Räsänen, Mr Vartiainen, who is familiar with the Swedish labour market. In other words, this really does not mean that work permits and residence permits will be abolished, but that this will be examined in advance, i.e. how the employer fulfils these obligations. And I would have liked to have heard more about what kind of system Sweden has in order to consider whether the employer is such that it can be known that it is able to fulfil these obligations, and what history it must have, and whether there are sanctions, that is to say, this prior supervision. On the other hand — as Mr Kontula has indeed registered it here — this ex post control: When we know today that we currently have quite limited resources in the occupational health and safety circles, how is it thought that this ex post control could then be carried out? Of course, what is very important here is that those people are indeed on the same terms and salaries at work as they would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u208	Mr President! A rather general view, which I believe is correct, is that the minimum conditions for working are mainly slightly better in Sweden than in Finland. This abolition of the availability test has therefore not led to the dumping of working conditions. The report of the Swedish State Auditors noted this increase in processing times and established an action plan on how to shorten them. Sweden has a well-functioning political system here. There has also been talk here that this abolition of access testing would somehow open up the labour market for everyone. This is not the case, it only creates a different screening mechanism. And in response to Mr Essayah's question: in other words, the residence permit and work permit require that all the conditions of employment are in order, the law, collective agreements and, in addition, the job must also be announced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u209	Mr President! When we talk about processing times in Sweden and Finland, we must remember that these systems are very different in many other respects. They are not comparable, or at least I am not able to make that comparison in the one-minute speech, because there are a lot of different parts. But I would like to draw attention to what has been said here about defending a Finnish worker. This is a propaganda argument, if that is so, because the question of access is not between a Finnish worker and a third-country worker, but between EU, EEA and third-country nationals. And if we think that we have an entrepreneur who wants to make use of the system specifically by acquiring some price-competitive advantage from foreign labour, he would definitely use Romanian workers, certainly not Thais, in the present or future system, and certainly not replace Finnish workers with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u210	Mr President! When speaking from Sweden, I looked at this information in the media that the Swedish Government has published a report in 2015, according to which Sweden has created an immigration route through a means-tested process. According to the report, about 40% of migrants come to sectors where there is no shortage of workers. In addition, 20% comes to low-paid sectors that already have oversupply. In other words, it does not seem as if this would bring some huge experts, as a representative has pointed out in his speech. Let me remind you that we have, for example, been freed from the needs of specialists, these so-called coders. Then we have the Ely Centre of Uusimaa released restaurant workers and cleaners and builders. We can do these things that last for a while when it needs to be. But we do, hey, 275,000 unemployed and face-to-face problems. Has it been forgotten?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u211	Mr President! These individual cases, which have been reported by Mr Kontula and others, are indeed sad and regrettable, and that is why we have at least tried to dismantle them in the Administrative Committee. For example, these compulsory restitutions have been postponed to the point, the timetables have been determined whether the application for a residence permit can be dealt with first, and so on — and so on. But this law has in due course been made to protect it in some areas where there is no need for foreign labour to come to Finland. It has not been a case of individual cases that may have come to Finland for other reasons, but of a larger number at the same time in some sectors. That is why I think it is appropriate to consider access. A recent example of stewardesses, we have construction, we have service sectors, although not in the Helsinki area, so in some other areas of Finland, where I would still like to think that we have Finnish employees used first.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u212	Mr President! After all, the law was originally adopted in a situation where Finland’s borders were closed. Then there was EU membership, then there was Schengen, and now we are living in a very different environment than when the law was made, and the law does not work in this environment the way it was originally intended. As far as this example of Finnair is concerned, I think it is a good example of why access testing does not work if its idea is somehow to curb employers' hiring from third countries. Finnair can exchange its entire cabin crew on Asian flights to Asia under the availability test. The trade union also knows this, because otherwise they would not have agreed to these reductions. The only direction in which access testing may in some way provide protection is the USA and Canada, and there, too, it protects Spanish and Greek jobs in relation to the jobs of the elderly and Canadians, not in any particular way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u213	Mr President! Mr Kontula and Mr Vartiainen, this is precisely about defending the Finnish workforce. The labour force will also be there in Sweden, which you, Mr Vartiainen, adored in the light of these figures. There will be workers in sectors where there is no shortage of labour, and then they will also be workers of the unemployed Swedes, the Swedish labour reserve. It is good that you too, Mr Kontula, have been alerted to the fact that we are in the EU internal market. Why not this internal market in the EU? Why not this availability of labour? Perhaps we should call Spain and ask people to come here if, according to the Left Alliance, there are so many jobs that are so free. Rather, we should consider dismantling these incentive traps when these do not apply to specialists, the workforce that Finland needs. They're already outside of this availability test.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u214	Mr President! Unfortunately, in this debate, as in Finland in general, there is a strong misunderstanding that the number of jobs is constant and one job opportunity is out of place. It comes up in Mr Paatero's or Mr Tavio's speeches on where and what kind of workforce is needed. That's not how the market economy works. There is no need imposed by a central designer, but when people enter the labour market, the market economy generally operates flexibly and they find employment. If the economy were to function as Mr Tavio described here, then there should be widespread and greater unemployment in Sweden than in Finland. In reality, the opposite is true. I would much rather be unemployed in the Swedish labour market, where I have a better chance of getting a job than in the Finnish labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u215	Mr President! Why is the EU and EEA-wide labour market not enough? Because we have thousands of people here in Finland who live here, who work here, who perhaps have Finnish citizens as their own children, who find themselves in impossible situations with this availability exercise every week, almost every day, in this country. I am not seeking more foreign workers in Finland. I do not care whether there are many or few workers from abroad, as long as they come in conveniently. I aim for the most fair labour market in Finland, and it is a Finnish, it is an EU citizen and it is in the interests of an employee from third countries. When there is a leak on the bottom of the ship, the focus will be on patching it up and not scrubping the deck, and that is precisely what is involved in the removal of the availability test.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u216	Madam President! I would like to continue with what Mr Kontula has said, and I would like to point out that the big problem is that even at the moment a permanent job is not a sure guarantee of a worker’s residence permit, and this is what we need when we need workers. In other words, even if a job is acquired, a person is chosen for a particular job and is willing to take up a job, this should not be slowed down by bureaucracy. After all, this state of affairs is partly contrary to the original purpose. It puts even every Romanian and Greek unemployed third-country national on a mechanical basis and even if the person who obtained the work permit had been resident in Finland for years. This is also a big problem. Perhaps even the Finns of Finland should look into this matter before starting commenting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u217	Mr President! Representative Vartiainen has just invoked Sweden's past economic growth as one of the grounds for removing the question of availability in Finland. Well, a representative. However, Vartiainen now deliberately, I believe, ignores the fact that the conditions in Sweden are, in many respects, completely different from those in Finland. Among other things, Sweden still has its own currency, which it decided to leave in place in the last decade, after a tight referendum. On the other hand, Finland is indeed in the single currency, and we will then have to adapt here to the conditions we have, Sweden can float its currency. After all, when Mr Vartiainen has just called for flexibility, the fact is that, in the context of a deteriorating employment situation in Finland, it is likely that some of the conditions of employment would have to be trampled on and this would apply in particular to workers who do not know their rights, in practice, to foreigners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u218	Mr President! We will need more work-related immigrants in the future, and we therefore need an active plan to get a trained and skilled workforce in this country. Indeed, we are also facing a shortage of labour. However, it is good to remember that the question of access is not about expert work, management tasks, the information technology sector, which is not really the majority of the work. According to the authorities, about 25-30% of foreigners working in Finland are covered by it, and there is also the possibility of giving up access testing on a regional basis. In other words, the question of availability will not become an obstacle if the workforce is really not available. But, Mr President, the question of access is also one of the tools for examining whether the employer pays the salary and how he pays his taxes and other duties, so this aspect of this debate is also important to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u219	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen said earlier that Sweden's growth is mainly due to other reasons, but this removal of the means test is, in a certain way, an additional factor, and in what you have just said you very much confessed to Mr Tavio that he does not know this situation in Sweden and what this is all about. So it's worth remembering now to be consistent. But since I am not an economist, I appeal to the economic professor Emeritus Professor Virén, who is 12.10.2017 In the new Finland, he said that this view that this would not lead to wage dumping is not sustainable, and he specifically takes a stand on this bill of yours. He sees the danger of non-compliance with collective agreements and of falling wages and so-called cheap imports for workers. I will now appeal to this economist when it seems that some Members cannot speak here without having sufficient training to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u220	Mr President! There are a few things that have not been said in my previous speech. The first was this reference to the representative of the plant, who was then forced to leave, but when he took this example of the West Metro, it is, in that sense, a bad example of this situation when the construction sector in Uusimaa has been exempted from this examination of availability. So it wasn't a problem in this situation, either. Well, then to this Swedish model and how it is done in front of the controls. After all, Finland has this partial decision-making practice, which means that we have the first decision taken by the TE Office, which looks at the question of availability and also the employer's ability to act as an employer, and then Migri here makes the decision on its residence permit. In Sweden, this stage of the Employment and Economic Development Office does not exist, but these other checks are also being carried out in the local Migri, and that is one of the reasons why there are longer processing times, because there is not so much professionalism in the local immigration office. In any case, it is worth recalling that, when you look at these sectoral and regional derogations, they do quite well now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u221	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen, allow me to correct one small misunderstanding of your speech. I did not claim that the labour market is working perfectly in Finland. Nor are you saying that the labour market is working perfectly in Sweden. Admittedly, you have profiled yourself on these labour market issues, and you clearly have a lot of expertise in them, but unfortunately, there is not quite as much in this issue of access consideration as the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland. It is true that jobs are created by demand and by supply then the labour force, the workers, are allocated to those jobs, the price level which is the sum of political decisions. You too would like to think a little about how protectionist today's countries are, in fact. After all, no systems are open in that way. The Finnish system is not entirely transparent either, as are the other systems, but this is also a bit of a state-of-the-art question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u222	And one more response before we move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u223	Madam President! There is talk here that this is about defending Finns from foreign workers, but when this is not about that. There is already free movement within the EU. This is about the absurd difference between workers in the EU and the EEA and workers in the non-EU regions. After all, the construction sector has abandoned access testing and has not seen a huge rush from third countries, even if there are jobs available, and none of the areas where access testing has been abandoned have seen any reason to think about re-introducing it. The question of access does not eliminate all the problems, but it does not collapse our current state of affairs either. Working conditions and workers' rights will not disappear at all. It is up to the authorities to monitor them in all circumstances. I hope that this debate could now lead to an agreement that the resources for regulatory control should be brought to the necessary level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u224	Mr President! In the social debate, it is common for speakers to draw the view that we are living in a time of great change and change. A major change of direction makes the view a better story. It is no wonder that real, real changes may be overlooked. We're living in a time of transformation, a time of change of course. More than 70 years ago, internationalisation and globalisation began in the world. The liberalisation of trade and capital movements began first between developed market economies and became global in the 1980s. As expected, material prosperity and well-being expanded in the same order. This is particularly clear in those countries that have been most courageous in globalisation as well as in China, Korea and Finland. We're living in a time of transformation. In the last 10 years, the direction of world development has no longer been clear. Limits are required for goods, services, capital and people. At this point of transformation, we don't know which way we're going. Mr President! Mobility of people has always been a particularly sensitive subject. It is therefore understandable that the initiative of Mrs Kontula and more than a hundred other signatories to the law on the abolition of labour supply is a source of debate and opposition. As one of the first signatories to the initiative, I would like to say that it is not in Finland's interest and it is not in our policy to make a cross-border request. We are an open society for which international cooperation is a necessity. It makes sense to proceed cautiously towards more free movement, supporting the need for Finland's future workforce through controlled immigration. This initiative is a matter of cautious progress. The number of employed people in Finland is around 2.5 million. There are hundreds of thousands of jobs, including placements and leavers, and as a result of the availability test, more than a thousand initial applications have been rejected. The implementation of the initiative would not even have a major impact on the number of workers outside Finland. We are part of a Union of 500 million people, within which mobility is already free. At best, we have had EU citizens working on an individual site, which compares with that among those who have been rejected with consideration. In addition, we have areas that are exempt from licensing, which are already leading a large number of non-EU workers. Mr President! The requirement to close borders is not the right way to combat the problems of working life. The right way is to make sure everyone has the same rules. We must safeguard fair working conditions and working conditions in accordance with the law and collective agreements for Finns. We must safeguard them for EU citizens and those from outside the EU. It requires sufficient administrative resources and a trade union movement. The trade union movement needs a right of appeal. Opponents of the initiative make a general reference to Sweden's experiences as a bad example. It is therefore appropriate to highlight facts and reasonable interpretations of what has happened in Sweden since the withdrawal of the access test. The fact is that labour immigration has not increased significantly. The fact is that no sale of wages and salaries has begun. The fact is that the employment rate of Swedish citizens is much higher than that of us. A moderate interpretation of the fact that more irregularities have been reported to the authorities is as follows: The free system gives employees the courage to appeal to the authorities. They will no longer be threatened with expulsion in the event of a change of business. There are more cases, but that does not prove that the problems have gotten out of hand. It should also be noted that the Swedish system is somewhat less effective in combating misunderstandings, as there are no universally binding collective agreements and there is no prior review of working conditions when the permit is granted, as this bill still requires in Finland. Mr President! I said that the free system needed a strong trade union movement. I say that the trade union movement needs the trust of immigrants working in Finland. We need a free and fair working life for everyone. We must ensure that Finland and the world did not benefit from a change in the direction of globalisation. No matter what, you can't give up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u226	Mr President! During the autumn and even today, there has been a very lively debate in this Chamber about the availability of foreign labour force, which is therefore applicable to work-related immigration outside the EU and the EEA. Of course, this is an important subject, but unfortunately, the public debate so far has been mixed up on the sides and on the other hand. I would therefore like us in this Chamber to be able to have a factual debate in which we take account of each other's views and also to be able to reflect on the directions in which we can develop the current system. I believe this would be everyone's will. There can rightly be many opinions on this subject, and it is great that these issues are being discussed in detail. Perhaps, however, I will start by saying a few more general points about legislation and its definition in relation to immigration. The criterion for a residence permit applying for humanitarian immigration is therefore the need to protect the applicant, but in the case of work-related immigration, the criterion for residence permits is that the applicant is expected to benefit Finland financially. It has been strongly said, but that is how our legislation has been built. The purpose of humanitarian immigration is precisely the need for the applicant, the perspective of work-related immigration always stems from the need of the country of destination. That is how we have the legislation and we must dare to say it. These two types of immigration should not be confused; they should be kept separate. The applicant's interest, therefore, can never be sufficient grounds for occupational immigration alone, but must also be considered for the needs of the labour market and the national economy in the country of destination. Against this background, it is justifiable for society to regulate the recruitment of workers outside the EU and the EEA. In this debate, we are easily forgetting the fact that in the international context, the Finnish system of access testing is in no way exceptional. In practice, all EU, EEA and OECD countries regulate foreign work-related immigration through access considerations or similar procedures. It is also significant that other countries' practices in this area are on average even stricter than the current practices in Finland, and the Finnish line is therefore more liberal. Sweden has really given up access to the EU, EEA and OECD countries mentioned just now. For this reason, too, it would not always be worth considering Sweden as a reference point in the debate on the abolition of the examination of availability, which actually carried out a work permit reform in 2008, which would result in the removal of the examination of availability. In this context, it may also be useful to remember the background in which Sweden changed its own system. There, therefore, the legislation was stricter than the Finnish legislation was or is currently in place in 2008. So they came from stricter legislation to more liberal. A big difference, for example, when comparing Finnish and Swedish practices, is that when we have an employee’s residence permit primarily by sector, very much is used in Sweden and many other countries for a job-based, employer-based permit. Everyone understands that this is also important, for example, for the employee's negotiating position, which has been mentioned a great deal here. And really, it is good to put the question of access into perspective not only at international but also at national level. In fact, the examination of availability for the last year concerned some 8000 workers outside the EU and the EEA, and their acceptance rate was 82%. It can therefore be said that, despite the question of availability, the majority of those who want to work in Finland, who have come to work here, will be able to work in Finland despite the question of availability. After all, this is certainly not an attempt to prevent all immigration; it is one of the means of pre-monitoring. It is a way of making controlled immigration, and that is why it is good to keep it in place, and when we know that we have different regions, different areas where exceptions are needed, they have been well developed in this system. Then this talk about favouring domestic or intra-EU and intra-EEA workers will not go any further here, but it is quite clear that in Finland our primary task is to create the conditions for unemployed job seekers already in this country to be able to work. That is what every nation state does. Our primary task here is to create the conditions for everyone who is already here to get away with the work. It's honest of you to admit this. It is also good to say in this context that, in fact, this prior control of labour immigration, in which one element of this consideration of access is one, is also going to be much cheaper and easier than it was then always in retrospect — there has been a lot of talk in this debate that resources would have to be put into ex post control. This has also been noted in Sweden, where, in fact, in 2012 legislation has been reformed and new forms of prior supervision have been introduced, because it has been found that there have been irregularities. Mr President! In this debate on access testing, there is also often a false impression that this would somehow prevent experts from being sent to Finland, for example. I noticed that today the Minister of Finance, Orpo, had given an interview in which he said that he was in favour of removing the availability test because he wants experts in Finland. At the moment, the situation is that, for example, the specialist’s residence permit does not have this consideration of availability, and one can really say — let’s take this example — that if a local shop wants a seller, it probably does, unless it has been removed in that area, but if a truly adjacent gaming company wants to be a specialist even if it wants to be a coder, then it will be possible. That is not the question of availability. I hope at least this will be remembered when we talk about this. But, Mr President, it is also appropriate to say at this end what we should be developing: It is quite clear that Finland needs work-related immigration in the future. Labour immigration has grown, and that is understandable because our dependency relationship is what it is and we need new hand pairs here. The main areas of development now relate to the processing times for residence permits, which can be reduced, for example, by investing resources in the activities of the authorities, but also by ensuring the clarity of the procedure for applying for its residence permit, because the maximum time periods come from it, as does the humanitarian side, that the applicant has not provided all the information needed by the authorities here in the application. Then they're looking for them with cats and dogs, and this is gonna take time. Then this question, which of the initiatives the signatories have rightly raised, is how this works for the people who are already here. For their part, it is quite clear that there is a focus on updating residence permit practices, such as extending the period of the first residence permit for a specialist from year to year, what was proposed by the government in connection with the so-called start-up residence permit, and which has just come to the conclusion that these residence permit practices are being slightly rationalised. In other words, once a year has been granted for a limited period of time, it will now be given directly to two. Or, for example, in the situations referred to here by Mr Paatero, if there is a person who has received a negative asylum decision and is now applying for a residence permit on the basis of work, the police, before going to carry out these returns, will wait for Migris to know what happens to that residence permit decision. They are quite sensible reforms and it is worth continuing and also seeking more new openings on how to prevent these abuses within the framework of the current system. There are many sayings here this evening, and I would say to this end that if the car is broken, we will change the tyre, not the whole car. So let's consider the availability test, but let's develop the current system. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u227	Madam President! I don't think it's the whole car. That is precisely the ratio on this issue. Giving up access is not going to make things any better. It does not improve everything in the position of workers from other parts of the world; it does not eliminate all exploitation from the labour market, but it does not destroy the current system alone. It doesn't wreck working conditions or wages. Fair and well-functioning labour markets consist of a number of factors, and in all situations the authorities are obliged to monitor the quality of employment relationships and compliance with working conditions. And the abolition of access testing does not remove the employer's obligations towards employees, you can even say the opposite. At its worst, access testing leads to a situation where an employee is unduly dependent on his employer because it binds the right of residence to work in a way that allows the employer to control the person’s stay when the stay depends on the employment relationship. It is also difficult, if not impossible, to switch jobs to another sector. The fact that there are people in our labour market who are exploited in no way contributes to a fair Finnish labour market. In many cases of occupational abuse and trafficking in human beings, the person has been specifically given a work permit under the availability test. The situation is disproportionate for workers, but it also imposes unreasonable demands on entrepreneurs to find out about the availability of labour. The examination of availability is particularly problematic for third-country workers who have already worked in Finland for a long time. Because of the difficult system, we are being turned away from working people, taxpayers who are wanted and good workers. Work-related immigration has been supported across party boundaries at the level of speeches. Its need is clear to anyone who has even looked at our population pyramid, our dependency ratio or our birth rate statistics. The need for new taxpayers is obvious. Of course, the workforce is also available within the EU and the EEA region, but at its worst, the consideration of availability prevents us from keeping the most desirable and motivated employees in the Finnish labour market. Asylum seekers also have the right to work during the process, which is only sensible for integration. There is no head or tail, humanly or economically, in the conversion of asylum seekers who have already been employed because of rigid processes. Labour immigration is a reasonable, humane, safe and controlled channel of immigration. Concerns have been expressed about the generalisation of so-called wage dumping by removing the question of access. In practice, wage dumping has already been possible now that free movement of labour within the EU has been provided for. Unfortunately, if the employer wants to exploit his employees and get underpaid cheap labour, it is already possible. Fortunately, the majority of employers understand that the secret of success lies with well-being and motivated workers. It is in the employer’s interest to take care of his employees. There are already a number of areas that have been abandoned: agriculture, the metal industry, the restaurant sector and here in Uusimaa. There has been no rush from third countries or massive recruitment of workers from third countries in any of these areas. In any of these areas where consideration has been abandoned, it has also not been considered necessary to consider the need to re-introduce it. Mr President! Regardless of what the Parliament decides on the question of access, it is important that we continue to work towards compliance with working conditions and improving the bargaining position of the labour force and reducing exploitation in the labour market. Such measures include improving the monitoring of employment conditions and increasing the resources of the authorities, increasing the information available to the trustees, the right to collective redress for organisations, associations and trade unions, criminalising underpaid employment, improving the law on local liability so as to better prevent the exploitation of workers, underpaid workers and trafficking in human beings, improving language training and vocational training for immigrants and combining these two, and increasing and developing the budget for pay subsidies to better support the employment of immigrants. These proposals to improve workers' rights must be promoted regardless of the fate of the availability exercise, and that is what the Left Alliance is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u228	Madam President! The assessment of the needs of workers from outside the EU and the EEA is also a necessary legal point in the future, the existence of which has been considered in various ways this evening to be abolished. The interesting thing is that there are two different reasons: one is already here who have found a job, and the other is that we should get somewhere else. I remember the Filipino nurses and other conversations that have sometimes been brought to this hall in time, which would bring dozens and hundreds of people into some areas without such criteria. This amendment to the law is a matter of foreign law, and there was a little discussion just now about which committee it is, whose property this belongs to. As long as the foreign law is part of the administration committee's agenda, it is certainly here both that the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, but also the Committee on Administrative Affairs, are then the committees which deal with this issue. Whether there is a need for a separate future or whether all these work issues are, then, within the law on foreigners, it is a debate that we have had in the Administrative Committee, that is to say, whether we really need to separate these two things. The present foreigner is becoming quite massive when there are inside all sorts of things, which are in any way related to the affairs of foreign people. Today, in the same Committee on Administrative Affairs, we finalised this law for seasonal workers, which also involved this issue of access consideration, but it was not done, even in that report, in any way to move in that direction. There there will be reliefs for agriculture and tourism, especially through the EU directive, and we also went over the practical way in which, depending on the length of the work, Finland's social security systems and others will be sitting there, and there were very clear instructions. As a second part of the same legislative package, these ict experts, who are mainly employed by the same employer but move from one country to another, also benefited from this relief. Two weeks ago, in this Chamber, there were facilitations for start-ups in the case of residence permits, so that the assessment of the company will then come through Tekes, and this will also allow for a longer period of time, i.e. two years' permit instead of a year's residence permit, to be obtained with a single decision. We have already been talking here today about regional derogations, in addition to these sectoral derogations, and that is the argument for and against. As regional exceptions, when it is known that in some areas there are not enough factors for some occupations, it is good to make it easier for them to do so. But on the other hand, there are regional criteria, which is why it is good to keep the issue of access in place. Then the question of whether this is a lot or a little. According to TEM statistics, we have been through all of this estimated about 8,000 people per year, about which this kind of reflection has been made, whether there is any availability consideration and what happens to it. If we did not have this law, then we would probably see what number of people would then come to the table. The comparison with Sweden is interesting — there has been an elimination of the question of availability, but not all control has been removed there. However, there is still an application for that residence permit, although there is no such examination of access. And as was said just now, this is why in Sweden the processing times have increased and not been shortened, as was probably intended in the first place. I referred in a debate to Japan, where we visited the situation, and there is also the aim of getting experts and supporting work-related immigration. There the need for labour is undoubtedly even greater than here in Finland, because there tens of millions of people are leaving the labour market, but there is a particular focus on increasing employment so that the employment of women and young people and older people is improved, and by that means first. I might think that we too have some work to do on this side of Finland, and when I look at the government, the reform of the family leave system has already reached the working group stage, although I would have liked to see the reform of the family leave system already at this point in the decision-making stage, so that we could actually benefit from it. In some discussions — not today — the berry pickers have also been included. The berry pickers have nothing to do with the availability test and this assessment, even where we are separated from Sweden. In Sweden, these berry pickers, which are flown to Finland, or Sweden in this case, are employed but in Finland they are not, so that the improvement and control of their working conditions can be done through other means, through the monitoring of this unfortunately poorly resourced working conditions. We in the Committee on Administrative Affairs and Industrial Policy also asked whether it was enough and whether the resources were sufficient. Of course, it is good and necessary if there is both—that is to say, prior control, which checks what kind of job it is, what kind of working conditions it is, what kind of pay it is, whether there are tax breaks and so forth, and then, in particular, those points can be checked when the worker is present, how they have been implemented. Once again, the Social Democrats support work-related immigration. In my opinion, it has been very valuable for workers to be able to move within Europe. With regard to the recent debate on the West Metro: there was certainly no availability test, but perhaps there are more posted workers. So these are the different models we have. But after all this, I would like to see the weekly reading of these working conditions in the press, that we would have the right of appeal by the trade union movement and that we would have sufficient resources for health and safety at work, the health and safety inspectors, to go through these jobs and the problems associated with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u229	Mr President! The presentation of the withdrawal of the availability test, as proposed in this bill, is a completely unpatriotic policy. Here we can see in concrete terms why the Finnish nation state is in crisis. It is truly sad that the majority of Parliament is prepared to give priority to the interests of a foreign worker. This bill is one of the saddest shows of Finland 100 years. This is certainly reflected in the fact that this has indeed been signed by a majority of the Parliament, but there are representatives of the Finnish Parliament and then only a few of the other groups. I have come to the conclusion that the name of the National Coalition could be changed into a supranational assembly, for that is what it is. Unfortunately, not a single member of the Coalition was in the Chamber to hear my message to them. Unfortunately, there are no downtown people to hear either, but I also came to the conclusion that the name of the Centre Party of Finland might be better suited to the Global Centre. It is therefore no surprise that the Green Left is behind this absurd initiative. How, then, can the majority of this House feel that Finland should attract and open borders, open all gates, for workers from outside the EU, around the world? Thus, even today, the supply and demand law works in this need of the workforce. Let's just get rid of the incentive traps. And I draw attention to the fact that the weight should be in getting Finns, their own unemployed, to work. The existence of an availability test does not prevent the labour force from moving to Finland as it currently is. The law of supply and demand already works. Current legislation on work and residence permits is not an obstacle. There is a separate residence permit in Finland for specialists, i.e. experts in fields that are really needed in Finland. I have now had to ask myself, because of the large number of signatories to this initiative, whether the majority representative really knows what our existing system of work permits already is. Do you think these signatories really understand which catastrophic bill they went to sign? The criterion for a specialist’s work permit today is a university degree, which can certainly be flexible, but at least EUR 3000 per month is the criterion. Why on earth would it even be worthwhile to attract other forms of migrant labour from outside the EU? We already have an EU full of unemployed people, [Give Kontula interlude] If you haven't noticed. At least the Left Alliance hasn't noticed. Why don't you ask the Minister of Labour to call Spain and say 'now that your unemployed people will be transported to Finland' when you think there is so much work available here, a crying shortage of employees, of those who earn less than EUR 3000. [Ozan Yanar’s interlude] Mr President! Please note that, in economic terms, all countries in the world are very protectionist, otherwise they would not be states. If the borders were opened — as Mrs Tuppurainen, who spoke of the Social Democrats, preached that the borders were open, and from the left, I have often heard from the Left Alliance that this absurdity is required — then yes, if the borders were really open 100 % in concrete terms, even if Chinese workers could replace a large part of the Finnish workforce. That's what you're talking about. That's what you're talking about. That's what you're talking about. That's what you're talking about. Now consider the law of supply and demand and then whose interests you are here for, the Finns or these peoples outside Europe. The fact that we are driving this exercise of availability, on the pretext of all the world's excuses and stories, is certainly politically devious. Rather, suggest setting up a programme in which 10,000 Russian workers are applied for to Finland – there will be mixed workers here in Finland. I do not suggest this and I do not support it, but I would assume that you would make a performance like this then rather than completely abolish the availability test. Please also note that Sweden is not a neighbouring country of Russia, as Finland is. Sweden's immigration policy is already quite catastrophic, the worst in the world, in fact, a total disaster. Why should it be imitated by Finland? In particular, it has been argued from the assembly that when the Swedish economy looks so good, it is even due to the abolition of the examination of availability there. Nor have the other EU countries followed the example of Sweden in this regard. Not a very good decision from Sweden, certainly not. I have noticed that those who are pushing for the elimination of the availability test are usually those who have already rejoiced at the fact that tens of thousands of immigrants arrive in Finland on a continuous feed after a standard of living — uneducated, languageless immigrants, not even those that the Finnish labour market would need. I would ask you, though, if these immigrants already here were not to find those workers you have presented so needed. [Ozan Yanar’s interlude — Anna Kontula’s interlude] As far as immigration is concerned, I would like to point out that, if this issue of access is removed, the low-wage labour force will continue to arrive in Finland as asylum seekers, taking advantage of a loophole in the law called the asylum system. This asylum system is not a system of legal migrant work, certainly not two completely different things, and mixing it up and ideologically trying to mix it up is wrong. These illegals are not helpless people, as you always keep pretending. You always seek so much pity for those in Finland illegally with all the sob stories and stories in the world. Yes, illegals are just like everyone else in the country. Those who are illegal in the land would certainly use every loophole in the law that is given. The systems are like that, the people themselves cannot be blamed, but the system is at stake, and we have to look at the system. We should not make a system with poor loopholes, which encourages us to use it. Surely, then, if this initiative were to go through, even if these illegal foreigners would certainly use these loopholes so that they could stay in the country, they would be able to stay here on a low-wage basis, even with a fake contract of employment. Think now of the number of fake employment contracts that will be drawn up if the examination of access is lifted. They will then work for half the salary of those who are illegally resident than in the nominal contract of employment, or even in the dark.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u230	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman Tavio. He brought up the ideas of the Finnish Parliament Group well, and it was a long and good speech, and I am not going to repeat them. I would like to raise a few points that have come up this evening. Mr Tuppurainen, the representative of the Social Democrats, spoke and mixed up the idea of limits on this issue. Somehow I could not understand what is going on until Mr. Tavio has just well put the idea open that it is the opposite of this cross-border issue, and yes, this is clearly the kind of immigration ideology that is wanted to bring and forget indeed the Finnish employee and the Finnish unemployed and their situation. It's just like the way it shone out of all that conversation. In this regard, Mr Räsänen seemed to have a very good record of the different countries in which these are used, and he said that there is nowhere in the EU and the EEA and OECD countries to be fully transparent, and that is why he wondered why it should be brought to Finland. I still have not found the basis for these discussions. Mr Modig of the Left has brought a huge list of what all the different official activities and criminalisations should be brought into this system of ours at the end of his speech. Somehow it would seem rather crazy that we would like to increase work-related immigration, but at the same time we should increase supervision and criminalisation quite dramatically. I do not quite understand where the savings come from, and somehow it does not have the logic of any world. Mr Paatero made a good point after visiting Japan — thanks for that information — that, even in terms of employment, they have the idea of having their own country first. I have also understood that their asylum policy is similar to that of their own people first, and they do not quite understand why they should at all open up their borders. Then I would like to bring up this article by Professor of Emeritus, Matti Virén, on 12 October 2017, in which he also points out that when you come here at this income limit of EUR 3000, it is the public authority that is still at the disadvantage of the state in terms of revenue and expenditure. It should be noted that a person needs services and uses services, and if he has a family here, then of course the family needs services too. So it's not quite so simple that just someone comes here to work and then Finland benefits from it and everything goes very nicely. I think that Mr Tavio has raised the problem of illegal immigration very well, which I think could also be a factor of attraction for people to come here and then to work here, for example, to have a decision first that they will not be given asylum, and a decision on conversion and then they will get work, and they should automatically be allowed to stay here. I think it would be pretty absurd to even think that. Of course, this need-tested exercise must be a priority. It is certainly great to embrace the whole world and to raise individual cases, and each of us is sensitive to individual cases, but we must remember that we are a small people and unfortunately we cannot save the whole world with our money, even if it is a wonderful idea for everyone. Somehow I wonder that when we are elected here to the Finnish Parliament and we have Finland for 100 years, is there any memory of whose tax assets this house was built, whose tax resources we visit here every day, whose tax assets have built this Finnish society and whose long days and war compensations have paid for it? It'd be so good to remember. During that day, when we were discussing Parliament's Ombudsman's annual report, Mrs Biaudet, the representative of the RKP, raised the only concern she had, that legal protection for asylum seekers. However, since 2013, the Parliamentary Ombudsman has paid attention to care for the elderly, services for the disabled, child protection and unlawful engagements and deprivation of liberty, and yet it was not of concern. In my speech, I spoke about people asking whether there are even other representatives in the Parliament who have an idea of whose affairs are primarily pursued there. Is it Finnish business and Finnish employment or what is being driven there? Is it thought that we save the whole world and bring to the debate only what happens in the life of an asylum seeker? We have hundreds of thousands of elderly people, disabled people, children's welfare customers, and there are no concerns about them. It would be nice to see this kind of similar initiative, and so many signatories. We too have collected quite a number of topics, and this kind of quantity can only be obtained in this kind of situation. Yes, I must say, as Mr Tavio said, that I wonder if everyone has understood what they have named, and whether it is now just fashionable to think so. I would also like to emphasise that the Swedish Government has published a report last year stating that Sweden has been given an immigration route through the removal of the means test. According to the report, about 40% of migrants come to sectors where there is no shortage of workers — that is, there is no shortage of workers. In addition, 20% come from low-wage sectors, where there is already an oversupply of labour. So Sweden is not a good experience either. But everyone believes in what they want. I believe in facts and that we have an independent state that decides its own affairs, and we must primarily think about our own country's inhabitants and not think about how many people we can get from the planet to work here, while at the same time the Finns would be unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u231	Madam President! Normally I would have made a brief speech saying that this is a reasonable initiative and I would have supported it. But a little guidance on this front of the hall must be done. — It's where people laugh. I say quite clearly that everyone understands: Yes, this is Finland's best interest. Yes. And the interest of Finland is precisely what you may not see, because you look at it in a certain way, in a specific way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u234	Mr President! There is therefore a bill on the amendment of the Aliens Act signed by the Left Alliance representative, Kontula and more than a hundred other MPs, which proposes the abolition of the right of access for workers from outside the EU and the EEA. There have been a number of speeches from other groups today, and it seems that only the Finns of Finland defend the Finnish worker here in Parliament. Jussi Halla-Aho, Chairman of the Finns Party, also strongly condemned the Kontula initiative earlier this autumn. Although we receive very little support here in Parliament, the Finns are fortunately not entirely alone. Among other things, Kyösti Sullis, Vice-President of the Association of Buildings, has knocked out Mr Kontula's bill in the strongest terms. There has also been strong criticism from others of the direction of the trade union movement about this bill and for every reason. The Ay movement performs its duties and pursues the interests of the working population in its opposition to this bill. Mr President! The impact of the waiver of access has been greatly underestimated in the public debate. In Sweden, it has led, among other things, to an increase in the oversupply of labour in low-wage sectors, to abuses and to increased controls. Sweden is one of the few European countries that has given up on labour availability, and the consequences have not been comforting to any extent. As Mr Meri has just said, according to a report published by the Swedish Government last year, about 40% of people moving to Sweden come to sectors where there is no shortage of workers. 20% come from low-wage sectors where there is an oversupply of labour. I hope this has not been the original intention in Sweden either. In Sweden, the need for control and control has also increased, and that is what Mr Modig has just called for Finland to prepare for. In fact, it seems very strange to create a problem first and then present a number of solutions that might not even work in practice. In addition, getting experts to Finland is by no means a valid basis for a legislative initiative taken by representative Kontula. Already, for example, specialists, researchers and persons in the top or middle management of companies are exempt from access testing. As I said during the debate, the Kontula bill has gathered signatories from all parliamentary parties except the Finns of Finland. At least I am perplexed by the fact that, among other things, there are no fewer than seven signatories from the Socialist Group in Parliament. For these parliamentarians, the values of the Social Democratic Labour Movement seem to have fallen behind for some reason with this bill. Mr Tuppurainen even blames the critics of the initiative for a cross-border policy. To no extent can I understand this charge. Fortunately, however, not all Social Democrats seem to think like Mrs Tuppurainen, and that is positive. I would also urge Mr Tuppurai to remember our national interests. Mr President! So the Finns of Peru are opposed to the abolition of the examination of availability. It would open the door to the dumping of working conditions and the creation of cheap labour markets, especially in the context of current mass unemployment. Regrettably, the biggest losers would be the defenders of their interests. As the representatives of Meri and Tavio have just made clear, it is a very clear position of the Finns on the need to hold to the availability of labour at least at the current level. Finally, I appeal to Parliament to reject a very ill-considered legislative initiative by Mr Kontula, not as unnecessary but as fundamentally harmful.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u235	Mr President! Let me start by commenting on the previous speeches. First of all, the number of persons subject to the availability test in Finland. Chapter 8000 has been repeated here, and this is in a way right, but if we want to know the number of people who actually go through the process of access testing which, when a work permit is issued, require job opening to systems and showing that it is not possible to find an employee in the EU and the EEA, the figure will be considerably lower. This 8000 is based on the statistics of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and includes applicants for further authorisation, for which access testing is generally not applied in practice, as are the categories of workers who are already de facto exempt from access testing under a regional policy. I do not have an exact figure on how many of last year's work permits were actually in the process of access testing, but that figure is considerably lower than 8,000. Mr Tavio put forward a number of arguments here, but since the language was inferior and the same familiarity with substance, I assume that he will not even assume any kind of interaction or debate over his speech, and I will not do so. I would like to reply to Mr Savio and Mrs Merelle in relation to this, apparently Malmö paper, which both referred to. It is true that this paper states that the expectations of the Swedish Government regarding the recruitment of new workers specifically to labour shortages did not materialise as was hoped, and this is certainly relevant to people who are in favour of the elimination of the availability test because they are concerned about the shortage of labour. I am not concerned, and that is also why I have not kept this Malmö paper on the table in my own argument. However, with regard to this result, it should be borne in mind that these are not new people after the examination of availability, but that the total number of employees and their distribution into different sectors also remained relatively similar before and after the withdrawal of the availability analysis. It is not, therefore, a new category of workers who have been targeted on the Swedish labour market in a different way than in the past, but it is a matter of finding that the changes that were hoped for were not achieved — partly because the number of workers in general was so low. Then, separately, what the left, which I am the only one here for, is in favour of and not in favour of. I am not in favour of people's mobility. I am in favour of people's right to move. They're two completely different things. In many cases, mobility, employment far from home is a huge human tragedy. I have dealt with these people a lot, I have written a couple of books about them, and I know that having to become a migrant worker is not necessarily a stroke of luck for man. And the international system is not fair that forces people to do so, forces huge sacrifices, long divorces from their own family. So I do not see the movement of people as an unambiguously positive thing, but I see that when people move, the rules of the game must be fair. People need to be treated properly, and we need to create such systems where human rights can be realised. That is a completely different issue. But then to what I was about to say. Mr President! The problem of access testing is generally specific to persons already present in the country, and it has therefore been proposed in the public domain that access testing should be limited only in these cases. Such a proposal is certainly to be welcomed and would make life easier for many people. That is why, even in writing this bill, I wondered whether this would be possible. However, the solution would still leave the most vulnerable group in the labour market, i.e. the paperless. Even if they have stayed and worked in Finland for a long time, they cannot verify their stay in a way that would exempt them from access. In this context, paperless means a person who does not have a right of residence granted by the Finnish State. Often it is a matter of a person staying in Finland after the expiry of his or her residence permit for one reason or another. Of the examples I gave in my opening speech, Irina was like this, as were those who received negative asylum decisions that cannot be returned to their country of origin. In addition to the previous ones, Finland is home to a number of people who have a residence permit issued by another EU country without the right to work. In this case, the person is not trespassing in Finland, but his or her stay is not verifiable for a work permit or would require bureaucracy so heavy that it is not a viable idea. Of course, if people and labour law are to be used to eliminate the question of access, you cannot ignore it as a paperless group. Mr President! Right now, however, there is also a wider social problem of paperlessness. With the exception of Sweden, all EU, EEA and OECD countries are subject to a needs test for access to the labour market for foreign workers. However, in countries with a particularly large and colonial history, it in practice only regulates access to the official labour market, not so much access to the country, when it is relatively easy to find work without authorisation from outside the official labour market. In almost all Western countries there has been so much paperless and so long that separate institutions have been formed for them. There is no official paperless, but in practice they work and engage in activities, care for their children, see a doctor and live on rent almost like anyone else. This is not good for society or for the individual. Because of their unjust position, the undocumented are exceptionally vulnerable and often have to work on unfair terms. The flourishing grey sector, of course, means lost tax revenue, and inequality also indirectly affects the economy and social stability. Finland has been protected from large-scale paperlessness by our remote location, our incomprehensible language and the so-called B-licence system until 2015. Traditionally, we have thought that if you cannot return an unauthorised resident, you must find a residence status for him. From this point of view, this has been a wise policy, as it has not resulted in a shadow society of paperless people like that of many other countries, almost all control countries. In recent years, however, we have been systematically hindering the formalisation of residence at the same time as the growth in mobility and negative asylum decisions is well on the way to increasing paperlessness in Finland. These arrangements are only a matter of time before the grey sector is large enough to act as an independent attraction. It will then be quite irrelevant whether or not we have access testing. Mr President! The question of access is one of the factors that undermines the ability of people already residing in the country to find employment in the official labour market. It even forces people from official work to gray. Thus, it contributes to pushing Finland towards a point where shadow systems begin to function and recruit people independently. This will enable us to be critical not only of the human rights criterion but also of the management of immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u236	Mr President! Perhaps a few more comments should be made on this debate at the end of this debate. Let me start with these few arguments that were here. Representative Yanar pointed out that if a person has a full - time job, he may not be allowed to stay here because of the availability test. In fact, in general the situation is that if a person has a full-time job, he has a worker’s residence permit or he has obtained a residence permit with another right, to which the right to seek employment was a part, but this has become a negative decision and then he is applying for a new type of permit. It is precisely those asylum seekers who, after three months or six months, have the right to work, depending on whether or not the papers are in order. Once the asylum process has been completed and if there is a negative decision, if they have been employed, they will usually apply for this work-based residence permit. It then depends a little on the sector and the region whether or not the question of access is to be considered. In this respect, I would stress the importance of bringing both the asylum process and the work permit process together and not, for example, launching these return measures until decisions have been taken on both of them. The second argument relates to short-term work. Yes, at the moment, legislation allows for short-term work, such as seasonal work, even without this consideration of availability. Then the next point or point relates to the fact that Mr Kontula, in his last speech, gave some thought to the problem of whether, instead of removing the whole question of access, we should look at who is now the most mistreated, who are already in Finland. I would urge that perhaps more thought should be given than the fact that the whole system is being scrapped, because it is precisely because if the car has had a flat tire, then the tyre will be replaced rather than the whole car.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-25-ps-110.u237	At a time when I was writing this bill and I met a lot of experts from different directions, I had a lot of discussions and I also looked into this possibility for such a solution, it seemed quite obvious that since we share a common labour market with the rest of the EU and the EEA, we cannot make a regulation that only applies to people residing in Finland in connection with this status. In this case, it should be extended to the whole of the EU and the EEA and, at that point, the documentation of the stay and, on the other hand, the effectiveness or the sense of the whole of the demarcation is so strange that it is just a dead end that we cannot continue to do so. Or at least this is the conclusion I came to.
