ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u1	The second point of the order of business is oral Question Time, so I would ask the ministers present to move to the Council of Ministers and ask those Members who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u2	Congressman Rinne will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u3	Mr President! Minister Terho, in connection with the presidency struggle, you stressed that the Finnish people's policy should be more clearly reflected in the government's activities. Now, however, in this new group, you have accepted an unjust government policy with all its hairs. You would have had the opportunity and also the duty, on the basis of your speeches, to promote the cause of the poor and to correct the government's policies. On the basis of public feedback, people have been given the impression that you wanted to keep the backseats of black ministerial cars and play power games. According to one former party chairman, "the seat of government came, but the memory went away." Is this what happened, Minister Terho?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u4	Mr President! Yes, I had accepted the line in my previous reference group. It's exactly the same. I myself have been negotiating the Government Programme, I am very pleased with it, and the implementation of the Government Programme will continue with the same determination as it has been so far. The Government Programme has already translated the Finnish economy and employment in Finland. We have very good economic growth towards the end of the parliamentary term and it is very important in the interests of the country that this good development continues to be stable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u7	Mr President! Journalist Lauri Nurmi already wrote on 3 June that the Government will not continue to cooperate with the Finns of Finland if Jussi Halla-aho is elected Chairman of the Finns of Finland. This happened on 11 June when Prime Minister Sipilä announced that there will be no further cooperation with the Finns. In the same connection, journalist Nurmi also wrote that Halla-aho's selection has been prepared in such a way that 20 representatives of the Finns of Finland will resign to support the government, i.e. Sipilä as a support party. Strangely, Nurmi was right again when the New Alternative Group separated from the Finns of Finland on 13 June. This poor summer theatre manuscript included the fact that neither the RKP nor the Christian Democrats are needed for the government and that current ministers can continue in their duties. Minister Terho, can you assess how these pre-planned power play patterns affected the public's views on the credibility of politics?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u8	Mr President! Next week there will be a government communication on this subject. As I understand it, Question Time is intended to deal with government policy, its criticism and possibly also
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u9	Mr President! This week, the political continental tiles have moved. The right-wing Truncated Finns and the New Option Group, which is clinging to the rule of government, were formed from the division of the Finns on the right. The special situation is that we have a non-party government group whose only task is to carry through the regional and social reforms as the crutches of Sipilä and to secure ex-President Soin's jam pole as Foreign Minister for the rest of the election period. Now that we have seen this tough political game in the media and no one has even denied it, you can only guess what it looks like to the public. So I ask the government and Minister Terho: do you feel that, after all these steps, you will have the authority of the citizens to continue in the government as if nothing had happened?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u10	Mr President! Next week, there will be a government communication on this subject, followed by a vote of confidence. Then let's see if the government has any confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u11	Mr President! Yes, I believe that many Finns are concerned about whether this government, which is now continuing with the support of the Coalition Party and the Centre Party — the parties — and then one such parliamentary group, can genuinely implement a policy that Finland will be in stable hands for the next two years, a policy in which values that are widely compiled by Finns will be promoted, or whether it was just a question of clinging to its own power objectives, even in the marketing of the wars or in the creation of provinces. This remains to be seen, but the government now has a great burden of proof that it is genuinely considering the interests of Finland and not the interests of the parties. I would like to ask in this connection, now that we have the European Minister Terho and the Minister for the Interior Risikko, who are responsible for refugee issues: this week The EU has launched a legal procedure against the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, which refuse to accept refugees from southern European countries under the agreements. Minister The soini used to be critical for this, that the EU intervened in these, but what does Finland do now? Are you going to strengthen the human rights line, as Minister Orpo said on Monday, or did you forget that on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u12	Mr President! First of all, we in the government have an important agenda for our good government, and we want to take it forward. There is already evidence that we have achieved a lot during this government, a lot of things that have not been achieved before. We want to strengthen it, and it is important to us that Finland succeeds and succeeds in all these games. As far as migration and refugees are concerned, Finland has done its job well, as you can see, Finland did not get any scratches. We have always done what has been agreed, and we ourselves have agreed on these tables, and on this line we want to continue, with our own agreement. But then, when it's settled, let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Government policy will be discussed in greater detail next Monday, starting at 12 noon, even if all day long. This question is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u14	Next question, Mr Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u15	Madam President! Sampo Terho, Minister for Culture and European Affairs, said 22. May 1, in its own blog: "As in other Member States, Finland must defend its national interests above all" and "the EU's criticisms must be stricter". In addition, Minister Terho has previously flashed a referendum like the British referendum here in Finland and caused dismay among government partners. Yesterday, however, the new option entered the old parties and expressed its respect for Finland’s membership of the EU. I would now like to ask Minister Terho: what do you think of these things you said earlier today?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u16	Mr President! As in the past, when this has been discussed here and in public, I am committed to a government programme, as you yourself have previously committed yourself to it, which I have also negotiated with regard to the EU. You too have stated that you are fully committed to this on Monday, so we will probably not have a great deal of conflict in that regard. This good programme will be followed until the end of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u17	One supplementary question has been asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u18	Mr President! That is where Mr. Sampo Terho said — I'm sorry, Minister Terho — that we are committed to the Government Programme. In fact, we are in no way committed at the moment. We don't sit on the board. I would have asked again whether this government intends in any way to resolve the possibility of an EU referendum. After all, this was a huge debate in the context of the presidency campaign, and Mr Terho said that he would like to insist on this. Is this still in force or is it not the case that we can no longer talk about the ministerial box?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u19	Mr President! Then it has happened that my line is the same as last week, but your line has changed. On Monday, you announced that you were fully behind the government program. In any case, however, as far as the issue you are asking is concerned, it is not very topical. As I have said before, we are following the government programme and what I have said about the forthcoming parliamentary term must come back to that later. At the moment, I do not even have a party to plan for the forthcoming parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u20	Madam President! Finland's economy is growing, unemployment is falling, employment is improving, the role of public finances is strengthened and thus citizens' services and income transfers can be better taken care of. In this situation, the opposition — Mr Rinne, Mr Ville Niinistö and the partners — is calling for a turning-around of government policy. One wonders what direction the policy should take when the policy that is currently being taken improves the situation and the economy in Finland. This was the question of refugees and immigration at European level. I ask Minister Riikos: how has Finland taken responsibility for its part since the adoption of the solutions agreed at European level for a certain type of voluntary burden sharing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u21	Mr President! Indeed, at that time, right then in 2015 and 2016, there was an agreement on burden sharing at the joint tables. We have these categories of so-called internal transfers and resettlements, and there are certain quantities in Finland as well as internal transfers from Turkey, but then relocations from refugee camps to those who already have such refugee status. And we are all the things that we have agreed together, and we have also dealt with. We still have a few internal transfers to do, but we have agreed that this will also be done within the deadline — contrary to what has happened in many other countries. We accept our responsibilities, but we carry them together and voluntarily and also in the light of our own carrying capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u22	Mr President! Just as Mr Zyskowicz said, the economy has turned to growth and employment is improving. In this respect, this government solution is pragmatic in the short term and contributes to stability in the short term. But I would like to ask Minister Terho: does this solution contribute to citizens' confidence in politics in the longer term?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u23	Mr President! It was as if this had returned to the previous question. The answer is still that we will be returning to this debate next week. Now we are discussing government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u24	Mr President! The old way is that Question Time is for the opposition to ask questions to the government here and then the government ministers to answer them. I have noticed that sometimes there is no answer, but so far I have not seen any ministers refusing to discuss it. When it comes to European policy and refugee policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u25	Mr President! This was a clear political issue. The government will follow the same government programme as in the previous week and the previous one. It is very good for the EU. There are different limits, on the one hand, and openings on what we are committed to and which we do not accept. They are still valid, they can be read there, so the line is unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u26	Mr President! We are in Question Time in Parliament, and here representatives of the opposition parties have constantly asked questions about what this situation means for the policy and direction of the government. When Mr Zyskowicz here asks where the opposition thinks the policy direction should be taken, I can answer him: in the direction of reducing inequality, in the direction of low income social tax solutions; in the direction of education and training, in the direction of increasing resources for education; and in the direction of strengthening public welfare services, in the direction of changing the government's plans for a social reform, which is based on a broad market-based approach to public services. But now we are in a situation where we have ministers in the government without a party. The question naturally arises as to what this means for the government's policy and direction in the future. I would like to ask the trio minister, Sampo Terho, whether there will be a change in government policy, for example, in the direction that the opposition has always called for?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u27	Mr President! Since I am here to replace the Prime Minister, I say and answer that the Government Programme is being implemented, it has been the starting point for this cooperation agreement which has now been concluded — the Government Programme. I'm sure we'll have a conversation. Since it is a strategic government programme, the details will be discussed just as this two years has been done. But the government program is the longwoods, the road map that's going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u28	Next question, Mr. Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u29	Mr President! The long spring is beginning to be in the back, and the workers have earned their summer vacation. However, municipal workers have a slightly acidic side taste in their mouths, as on paydays holiday money is 30% less than in previous years due to kiky.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u30	Madam President! It is true that such an unfortunate decision has been made. It has long been agreed that this was the case, and it was then in the hands of the social partners, that they decided how this was going to go. And yes, it is the public sector holiday money that is so badly hit. We know this, and this was not easy for us at all, and certainly not for the people to whom it is directed, and I do not have any wand for this to change this for the better. This is the deal, and this is what we're gonna do. We have seen, however, that it has been of great benefit to this Finland: the economy has started to grow, people believe in Finland again. The other side has this price that these people have to pay, and I am, of course, sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u31	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u32	Mr President! I think that kiky was more of a result of pressure from the government being forced to do so, and I do not see that economic growth is now the result of this kiky agreement. But, Mr President, there is another injustice against women in the municipal sector: their pay is still 16% lower than that of men. The pay gap is due to occupational segregation. In municipalities, women and men receive the same salary for the same job, but the problem is that women and men do different jobs. The level of education of employees in the municipal sector has increased, but nothing is happening to the pay gap between women and men.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u33	Madam President! A very important and topical question also because here, whether there was a couple of weeks ago, we had a meeting in the STM specifically about this equal pay. The equal pay programme was discussed and discussed on the measures already taken: on the side of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, for example, it has been instructed and encouraged to apply to those slightly more foreign sectors, so that women go to the so-called traditional male sector and vice versa. This is a long process. There's no magic trick for this. We know these problems. We know that the same pay for the same work must be paid, and there are many areas in which this actually happens. But it is in the long run that we go without prejudice, so that there are no longer so many areas for men and women, but that the other career paths are boldly chosen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u34	Mr President! It is true that in the last two years the Finnish economy has turned to a marked growth. Before that, we went down at a high speed, and now the growth is even surprisingly high. This raises the question now that, when we are in this situation, will the government continue with the same cutting policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. We hear Minister Risiko's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u36	Madam President! When we had that mid-term debate and were so-called spending limits, one of our priorities will be and is caring. We are really investing in reducing inequality, in eradicating poverty and, best of all, in work. Work is the best social protection, work is the best eradication of poverty. That is why we are investing in finding jobs in Finland. It will enable Finland to rise better. We are also investing in the assessment of social security and we will see what can be done. According to the economic situation, of course, progress is being made and effective measures are being made, incentives traps are being dismantled and so on. This government is also awake on this issue, just as it was last week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u37	Mr President! Many public workers are now looking at the June pay slip with sadness. Yes, the kiky-surgeoning, the cutting of holiday money, it feels and shows up, and especially in many families with children, summer plans are renewed. In many families it has been the holiday money that has been used to make those amusement park trips and others. Kiki surgery was bitter medicine, it has been agreed by the organizations, but this is not all. This is also the case with the many increases in customer fees that this government has made, the cuts in compensation, and the impact on these low-paid women in the public sector, low-paid workers, families with children is disproportionate. And now, good government, when there seems to be light in the tunnel, the economy has started to grow, the financial company Nordea anticipates up to 3% economic growth this year,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u38	Mr President! The question is a very good one, because I myself have been a nurse in the past, precisely in the situation we are talking about here. I would like to say that we are really working on the fact that we have work to do and that we are also paying for it according to the complexity of the work. We have different measures to do that. You're asking what we're gonna do in the future. The next place for this debate is the budget debate, and that is where it will certainly be dealt with. We will try our utmost to make Finland’s brighter future, as it now seems, brighter. These are very big things that many people are suffering from, I understand that, but we will do everything we can to make work in Finland and the economy grow, so that we do not have to make such cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u39	Mr President! In some groups the wind has turned so that one might think that this Chamber is out in the open. But here Mr Tuppurainen pointed out that Nordea's forecast is that economic growth is 3 per cent a year. Yes, it's because of this government. This is also granted by Mr Kankaanniemi. And when we think of the government programme two years ago, the target was a 2% increase. Thanks to these good measures, which have also led to a reduction in income tax for the first time in seven years, we are going to go a long way beyond that: the taxation of pensioners has been reduced and a number of other good measures have been taken. I would like to ask the Prime Minister's deputy:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u40	Mr President! Indeed, at the moment we are not planning any specific cuts. Now we are investing in that growth and now we are investing in bringing down the incentive traps so that we can get more employment and these employment-enhancing measures. They are not the easiest things in the world, but that is what we are trying to do in the next few months and months. At this stage, we are not planning any new cuts, but, rather, we are investing in growth. Let us hope that there will be no major crisis either in Europe or at global level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u41	Mr President! Kiky stings not only low-income employees in municipalities, but also municipalities. Although wage expenditure in municipalities is falling, tax revenue has fallen even more in practice. For example, the City of Espoo’s Kiky balance sheet is approximately EUR 10 million per year at frost. After all, the municipalities were not supposed to have any new tasks, let alone new costs. My question is: how does the government intend to compensate the municipalities for these costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u42	Mr President! Last August, in connection with this year's budget, we also had a close debate with various staff organisations on these cost implications for this year and this spending limits period, and finally we also came to a common understanding of the figures. It is true that, if you look at the system of central government transfers, this measure, as a single measure, cuts the central government shares, but it is on the positive side as a whole only marginally. If you have been familiar with last year's financial statements for municipalities, it is a positive whole. Now we have to think about the fact that all in all these positive effects are reflected in a somewhat longer period of time. And then, when you look at this economic growth, of course, it means more tax revenue for the state as well as then the increase in municipal tax in the municipalities. I believe that, overall, the local government finances are now in a better looking condition than they were for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u43	Madam President! The late Veikko Vennamo was talking about the back of the money. Now, if you look at the public workers — the police, the midwives, the nurses, the nurses — who today have received a pay slip showing the kiky cuts, and who are watching this broadcast, where the knuckles in white are squeezed into ministerial briefcases and are expected to get into the backseat of Minister-Audi in the face of a personal jam pole, what do you think, do they think you have a backbone at all? You, the government, have a chance to show me the spine now. This kiky agreement will not only cut holiday money this year, but also next year and the following year. Minister Lindström, can you now promise these workers that your jam pole will be that next year and the following year the holiday money will no longer be cut?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u44	Madam President! In some ways, it is contradictory that at the same time you blame invertebrateness and then insist that you stick to the government, because I believe that the government is the only place where these things — your wishes too — can be answered. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u47	Next question, Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u48	Mr President, ärade talman! Sote-och landskapsreformens tidtabell verkar bli allt mer oklar. Det arv påverkar direkt också det eventuella landskapsvalets tidtabell.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u49	Mr President! This reform will proceed on schedule, and the necessary changes will be made if Parliament decides to do so. The Ministry of Justice has started from the premise that, at the beginning of November, laws should be in force so that various technical and other preparatory measures can be taken so that the elections can be conducted with honour, so that the certainty of this electoral system is preserved. We are now all aware of the fact that the elections are about to take place, and we have been able to equip ourselves and prepare for them. The parties also know what elections are to take place. But it must be said that the situation is certainly not ideal. I'm sure everyone here knows that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u50	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u51	Irade the Talman! So the recommendations of the OSCE and the Council of Europe obviously do not matter to the government. With regard to these regional elections, I cannot help but mention this huge democratic deficit that is about to arise. After all, the provinces are not on the verge of genuine self-government, but are focusing on the ministries. But then there is the province of Uusimaa, which has 1.6 million inhabitants — a huge province, if you compare it with some 77,000 people in Central Ostrobothnia. In Uusimaa in particular, decisions on social services are very far removed from the individual citizen. Minister of Justice Häkkänen, is this not a completely false democratic development? Should the objective not be to strengthen local democracy and not to abolish it? What is the government going to do about this huge democratic deficit in the province of Uusimaa? For example, could you consider constituencies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u52	Mr President! This reform is mainly due to the fact that certain service items are so heavy that wider shoulders are needed. That is why these items of services must be organised under democratic control, which means that the provincial council is the most sensible institution in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u57	Madam President! Today we have heard the views of the six largest mayors on social reform, and there are also a large number of mayors with a group of members. The criticism is directed specifically at this social reform and its cost-increasing effect, and also at the fact that, in fact, the organisation and production of social and health services are becoming even more difficult. Now I would like to ask Minister Vehviläinen: what do you say to these big city leaders, who are very concerned about the social well-being of their citizens and that this network of services and safety works seamlessly even after this reform? What will you answer them about how, as mayors of municipalities, they will be able to respond to the fact that in their cities the social well-being and security of their inhabitants and the capacity for crisis will be preserved if this reform, as is now feared, produces the result that this base will fall from this system?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u58	Mr President! I have in front of me a statement from the six largest cities, and I have been very familiar with it. Its title is: "War and regional reform for further preparation and reflection." As has already been said here in Question Time, this government adheres to its own government programme, and everyone knows that the most important and most extensive reform of this government, perhaps the most extensive reform of our entire independent history, is to be maintained. This is not a new position. These mayors have taken a position in the past, and I find it a little regrettable when I am the Minister for the Development of Public Services, that we are facing a confrontation between the big cities and the provinces. I think in that way that this reform will best come into force and practice in such a way that both small and large cities, provinces and also the state administration will jointly commit themselves to bringing this reform through in a good way and in this timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u60	Madam President! I'm the Minister. We fully agree with the Vehviläinen that reform is absolutely necessary to move forward and solutions are needed. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Minister Risiko, for a solution: could it perhaps be that the package of legislation on the organisation of social welfare reform and the regional legislation will be dealt with in Parliament without the legislation on freedom of choice? Let's go to the regional elections first and see this wide-ranging freedom of choice later — so that the whole package of laws could move forward and the issue of the regional elections could be resolved and the regional elections could be held on time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u61	Mr President! As has been said many times in this Chamber, this is a whole and the government as a whole wants to take this forward. There are a lot of representatives of the committees that are dealing with this, and they actually know this situation better than we do on the ministerial side. I would like to continue to stress that this is such a huge reform that it is important... I also heard a cry here that we do not appreciate the view of the big cities. We very much appreciate the views of the big cities and the fact that they will be included in the preparations here too. In Uusimaa, the whole of this reform of the social welfare system is extremely important. I have also been monitoring the public in recent days that this is happening. That is why I think that we must now put all the strength into both the preparation and, once the laws have been adopted, this interim administration will get under way and reform can be carried through in this challenging timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u62	Mr President! When we move to a provincial government, a democratic one, Finland will also become part of Western Europe. As we know, there are very many Western European countries with regional self-government, and there has been no such thing in Finland. I consider this to be important for the history of Finland: for a hundred years it has been planned, and it is now being democratically achieved — a huge step in size. My question is to replace the Prime Minister: there really are many models in Western Europe, and they have been able to take good account of the needs of both the smaller and the larger ones. Is there a lesson to be learned for us in Finland from those models to take into account all these legitimate needs — that all will be considered and the voice of the people will certainly be heard in that province administration — and how closely have you gone through those?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u63	Mr President! In fact, as Mr Puumala said here, we are moving to a certain western position with regard to regional government, democratic regional government. When we look at the kind of regional government, democratic regional government, each country itself has, in the Nordic countries or in other Western European countries, a lot of differences in degrees, but one thing is common in all, and that is the election of directly elected decision-makers. Some then have tax rights, as Sweden has a genuine right to tax, Norway has a right to tax, but the State determines what the level of taxation is. So here we can see that that self-governance takes place in quite a number of ways. Then I would like to remind you of the social reform that fell in this Parliament at the end of the last parliamentary term. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs then strongly stressed this democracy — that there should be directly elected representatives — and that funding and decision-making should also take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u64	Mr President! It is important that, once we have – and if we do – a new level of government, that democracy will also develop in it. Unfortunately, it may now be that these provinces are not going to be given proper autonomy, nor is it going to be given tax rights. But my question now is: now we have municipalities with municipal decision-makers, then the coming provinces with little to say about funding, and then we have a parliament with MPs. Have you, Minister Häkkänen, wondered whether it would be wise for Members of Parliament to be represented both at municipal level, at provincial level and here in Parliament, or whether we should consider — in order to achieve the right democracy — whether there should be little reason to limit who may be candidates for the regional elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u65	Mr President! I think we should think about this. Of course, it is also the case that a small country, a small number of decision-makers, are key players in different regions, which is, of course, a number of points of view. This must, of course, be carefully assessed in terms of the situations that arise in the decision-making process. We've had situations like that before, haven't we? [Ilkka Kanerva’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u67	Next question, Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u68	Madam President! Yesterday, the protection police raised the threat assessment of terrorism, arguing, among other things, that it has not been clearly planned to attack Finland in the past. The authorities, including the police, do indeed need sufficient resources and powers to prevent terrorism, and at the moment Finland is in a state of uncertainty with regard to its intelligence powers. The cross-border traffic in our country is controlled by all our neighbouring countries, but our own authorities do not have the authority to do so. Now I ask you, Minister Risikko: on what timetable will the intelligence laws now on the opinion, which have also been discussed in a parliamentary working group in good agreement here in Parliament, be brought to the attention of Parliament, and will you put forward a proposal for an accelerated order of regulation so that the laws can be put into effect already during this period?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u69	Mr President! Indeed, yesterday the protection police told us that the level of threat has now been raised, precisely in relation to the fact that there are more and more links and, for example, these foreign fighters have a relatively high hierarchical position on battlefields and in these networks and organisations, and because we also have terrorist target persons who are being watched, at the moment around 350, it has been estimated that the threat has risen and increased. As far as the measures are concerned — you are asking about this very intelligence legislation — we certainly need intelligence legislation, because we are the only so-called developed European country in which this does not exist. At the moment, intelligence legislation, both civil intelligence legislation and military intelligence legislation, is the subject of statements, and as soon as it comes from those statements, we will make the necessary corrections and then present it to the Government to come here. As far as this urgency is concerned, I personally hope that this can really be dealt with as a matter of urgency, but of course it will be decided absolutely by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u70	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u71	Madam Speaker! European experience shows that there are often radicalised second-generation immigrants behind terrorist attacks. This is very worrying for Finland, because the educational results of comprehensive school indicate that we in Finland have a very big difference in the school performance of second-generation immigrant children compared to the Finns and even the first-generation immigrant children, which means that we have not been able to integrate these children, who have even been born in Finland. I now ask the Minister for Education: In what way will these second-generation immigrant pupils be taken into account in basic education? How could they be taken into account from that early childhood education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u72	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Räsänen, for this question. It is very important and has been firmly on the table in our ministry. Finland stands out from other countries in comparisons of learning outcomes in that the learning outcomes of immigrant children are lower than those of other Finnish learners. We've already taken action on this. We now have a lot of research in the background and researchers also working on this. Teacher training, in particular continuing teacher training, has been developed to ensure that the multicultural learning environments, which are already everyday in our schools today, are better taken into account. Then, of course, the most important thing is the support for learning its language. It is not only limited to the beginning of the learning path by adopting a Finnish language or a Swedish language, but it is also important that there is constant support for learning the language. In the future, we need to consider how to make language learning even more effective in early childhood education and then also after its primary school in secondary education even more effective, because we see,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u73	Mr President! What the Ministry of the Interior, for example, is doing to tackle this particular problem and prevent this radicalisation. We now have such ongoing contacts and cooperation with religious communities that these issues are also being taken into account in the religious communities, because they often have these problems and may not be brought to light. We want to be able to discuss this openly. Among other things, all the work that is now being done in Finland to prevent exclusion is also lacking in this problem. After all, exclusion is the greatest threat to our internal security. It is not only a problem facing immigrants, but it is also a problem facing the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u74	Mr President! Radicalisation is best prevented by preventing exclusion and exclusion of people — just as the Minister has just said — and by ensuring social inclusion. In the case of immigrants, integration is important, but also the sense that they are equal citizens in Finnish society. Young men are particularly vulnerable to radicalisation and it would be important for young people to have education, leisure opportunities and meaningful activities. Work against racism is also important to combat radicalisation. Mr President! I would like to ask: how can the exclusion of young men in particular be prevented and their involvement in society be supported? How could racism and discrimination be reduced and these measures also help to reduce the base for radicalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u75	Mr President! Finland must send a clear message at all levels that racism and discrimination do not belong to our Finnish society, as does hate speech. This has been an active topic of discussion in recent days, and in that we politicians should draw clear boundaries that racism is not acceptable to Finnish society in any form. And this particularly applies, of course, to our educational institution and to our precious civil society. The Government is implementing the Meaningful Finland programme, which is a concrete programme, and many ways of combating racism, discrimination and increasing inclusion, including through education. In this context, we will also have a decision in the next few days at the Ministry of Education and Culture, which will increase resources for this work as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u76	Madam President! More serious terrorist-related plans and projects have also become known in Finland, and that threat assessment has now risen to level two, i.e. higher. According to these estimates, Finns may also be the target of attacks against the West. Many Finns are currently thinking about the situation. I ask the Minister: is everything possible for every Finn to feel safe at summer’s big summer events, for example? At the same time, we have returned foreign fighters, Daesh terrorists. In Finland, they are allowed to move freely, they can return to Finland. I would ask Minister Häkkkäs: are you prepared to tighten up our legislation so that such persons would not be free to move there but would be where they belong?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u77	Mr President! In reply to this second question, as we heard and know yesterday of course, there are significant problems with the problem of foreign fighters and the updating of this regulation must be taken quite seriously. It's a real challenge, and the Justice Department has already made an assessment of this. All these other acts or plans, which have been committed for terrorist purposes abroad, are taken very seriously. One of the most important fora in which these are discussed and outlined is the European Union's cooperation on crime prevention and other related projects. In other words, EU cooperation plays a very important role in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u78	Mr President! Intelligence legislation and legislative reforms are also necessary to ensure that all authorities receive up-to-date information about people who may be considering terrorism in Finland and on espionage from abroad. However, I would like to ask the minister concerned that, since we know that there are about 350 people in Finland who must be followed and who may be a threat to this society, could we in some way make legislation that allows us to intervene in time in the existence of these people in Finland or in the free movement of these people in this society. It cannot be that we wait, wait, wait — until it happens. I would also like the Minister to say that there is some way to deal with who is free to come to this country. Now, as we know, free movement makes it possible for us not to know who comes into this country every day. On average, however, there will be a hundred in a week. So can we do something about this concrete thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u79	Mr President! This is a very important question. Indeed, we are constantly stepping up that border control, and we do have different systems for assessing that when someone comes to the border, is there a chance to leave him on that side of the border? This is also very important from a legal point of view, because we must always carefully assess who can be turned from the border. And then you asked me about the people here who are being followed. Yes, we will certainly be followed up and seized immediately if there is a small subject, but this goes precisely according to the criminal law and otherwise all the legal criteria, so that we cannot seize it if there is no real evidence. However, very much has been sent by the supo to the Central Criminal Police to investigate matters, which means that cooperation works. With reference to what has just been said about these foreign fighters: Always, if we know that a foreign fighter returns here, and if there is a crime behind it, it will be taken into criminal proceedings. And then there is this, too, that since the beginning of this year it has been a crime to become a foreign fighter, but
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u80	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Anttila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u81	Mr President! In 2012, the Audit Committee commissioned a very extensive study on moisture and mould problems in buildings. On the basis of its study and also of a very thorough expert consultation, Parliament reached a unanimous decision, presented to the government at the time a list of 14 measures to put an end to molding and to correct indoor air problems. Last Friday, Prime Minister Sipilä held a parliamentary debate on indoor air problems involving several government ministers. My question is: what does the government intend to do to solve internal problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u82	Mr President! That in-depth study by the Audit Committee on indoor air problems related to construction has been a good basis. These measures have been taken and now the government wants to act even more broadly. That is why the Prime Minister convened this seminar, which, in accordance with the wishes of Parliament, had representatives of all the groups and a large number of experts. What is being taken up: Now the Government is launching preparations for the strategic sessions so that we can bring a programme to Parliament in the autumn, which is specifically aimed at promoting healthy public construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u83	Minister Grahn-Laasonen is still completing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u84	Mr President! Thank you again for this important topical question. It is estimated that between 60,000 and 900,000 comprehensive schoolchildren and their teachers and other school staff suffer from mildew and indoor air problems in their everyday lives, and this is an intolerable situation. Here we need to do more together, and we need to do more about the above-mentioned building issues, but, of course, this situation as well as the responsibility of the municipalities for learning environments will also enable us, at the same time as ensuring the right to a safe learning environment, to make modern learning environments that meet the new curricula and the requirements of future learning. Here we work well with municipalities, but the division of labour is clear, i.e. the municipalities are responsible for the real estate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u85	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u86	Mr President! The main objective of the proposal to amend the State Civil Service Act and the Security Clearance Act is to protect key national security interests by improving staff security in the state administration. The aim is to prevent threats in advance that may be related to the appointment of persons who are not only related to Finland but also to other countries. The amendments to these two laws aim to ensure that the integrity, independence and reliability of persons selected for key tasks of state security can be better ensured before appointments are made. The aim of the proposal is to clarify and assess more comprehensively the external links of persons carrying out key and specific tasks requiring the security of the State. Taking these into account would be ensured when considering the appointment of the State administration. The protection of security interests would be implemented in such a way that the procedure also takes into account the fundamental rights of the persons to be elected. It is also noted that the provisions are in line with international obligations binding on Finland and the rules and practices generally applied in similar countries. The aim of the reform is also to increase the efficiency of the selection of those who are trained in central government key security posts, taking into account the independence and reliability of the person in general when selecting training. It should be noted that the proposal relates to the Government Programme's entry that the Government will specify legislation on dual nationality. According to Article 7 of the State Civil Service Act, Finnish citizenship is currently required in the highest management posts of the Government and its subordinate government, as well as in posts involving significant public authority or which are important for public security. The requirement of Finnish citizenship is also fulfilled when a person has the nationality of one or more other States in addition to Finnish citizenship. The preparation of the legislative amendments resulted in a more general examination of security issues related to foreign interests. At the outset, there was also an option to provide for a so-called ban on dual citizenship in certain positions requiring Finnish citizenship. However, this suspension option was abandoned as it would have contained issues of particular importance for the non-discrimination and non-discrimination regulation of the Constitution. The Government proposal proposes to amend two provisions of the State Civil Service Act: First of all, it is proposed to revise the list of posts and tasks which are central to the security of the State, in Article 7 of the Civil Service Act, for which Finnish citizenship is required. According to the proposal, any other nationality would not be an obstacle to appointment, as it is today. It is a question of updating the section in question and, to some extent, of extending it. The extension of the scope of the provision would concern posts and tasks for which the manager receives confidential and classified information. It is also proposed that a provision be added to the State Civil Service Act to ensure the integrity of the person elected to the post and that he should not have any interests which could jeopardise the proper performance of his duties. This includes ensuring that the person is able to perform his or her duties independently and reliably. The addition of the above provision is intended to contribute to the implementation and effectiveness of the general constitutional criteria in practice. For example, the reference to links emphasises that the person to be appointed must not have any financial or foreign interests that would expose him or her to inappropriate external pressure or other influence. The assessment shall take into account the nature of the post(s) to be filled, the previous employment relations to be appointed with the State and the proper management thereof, and the authority’s means of establishing the background of the person to be appointed. It is proposed to amend the Safety Clearing House Act in order to clarify more broadly the foreign interests of the person to be appointed for key security tasks. The amendment would give clearer powers to security authorities, i.e. the Protection Police and the Chief Staff, to have and take into account in their assessment the foreign interests and changes in the security report of the person subject to the security investigation. Foreign ties would be defined by law. They refer, inter alia, to the subject matter of the investigation, such as the current and previous nationality of the official, to the service of another State, to the closeness of nationals of another State, to the continued and close links with nationals of another State, and to other interests in another State or its nationals and entities. The starting point for the settlement of foreign interests is the notification of the subject of the study to which the proposal proposes to add foreign interests. In this context, a new issue would also be the obligation for a person to notify the authority that prepared the report without delay of any changes in foreign relations. It is proposed that the criteria governing the discretion of the competent authorities carrying out safety investigations be set out in the law. In summary, the above changes would mean that, when filling all posts relevant for the security of the State and for the protection of other national interests, competent authorities could identify the person’s foreign interests and assess the risks involved. A report on a person's foreign interests would become a regular part of a comprehensive personal security report. However, foreign ties could be clarified in other cases defined by law. Mr President! The State employs approximately 66,000 people. After the reform has been completed, Finnish citizenship would be required of around 23500 people in the state’s office and position. An increase compared to the current situation would be estimated at approximately 250 posts or tasks. New tasks to be covered by the nationality requirement include preparedness and preparedness tasks, tasks which include the right to process documents classified as Level I or II security, tasks which have a significant impact on information and cybersecurity, and special ministerial assistants. The proposed changes to the study of foreign ties would have a particular impact on the protection police and the Chief Staff's practices in view of the new tasks. More work would be required for these, in particular as a result of an increase in interviews related to the clearance of foreign interests in security clearances. It is estimated that the workload of the protection police would increase by between 15 and 17 person-years. The additional costs are estimated at around EUR 600000. The proposed reforms therefore do not alter the current situation that Finnish citizenship can also be appointed as a Finnish citizen who holds the nationality of one or more other States. Even after the change, nationality would not be a ground for segregation in the selection of posts, and dual or multiple nationality does not constitute an obstacle to the appointment of a post. As is the case today, the evaluation of appointments is made on the basis of individual considerations. The amendments now proposed would clarify the provisions for the appointment process and improve the possibilities for identifying the actual foreign interests of the person before the appointment. The assessment and consideration shall be made from the point of view of the post or function concerned. Criteria for student selection are also proposed in the National Defence College Act, the Border Guard Administration Act and the Police College Act. There is no provision to ensure integrity and reliability in the training of soldiers, border guards, police and rescue officers, and there are no possible obstacles to the professional career in the field in question when choosing training. The date of entry into force of the laws is proposed as the beginning of 2018. It should be noted that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior have set up projects aimed at preparing provisions for the appointment of only a Finnish citizen with no other nationality to military posts. The aim of these projects is to amend the laws of the administrative sectors concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of dual citizenship has been raised in the context of a changed and tense world political situation and the security situation, and it has been asked whether a person can be loyal to two different countries at the same time, for example in certain situations. This has, of course, come up in particular, for example in the high positions of the Defence Forces or in the high positions of the Border Guard. The question has been, which country would be more loyal to a person in a tough situation. This proposal, which has now come to Parliament, seeks a solution precisely through these safety assessments, and that is one good way, of course, to ensure that people who are capable and good at different tasks are involved. Of course, this is not just about citizenship, it is about many other matters that are being examined here. This law, which concerns the State Civil Service Act, therefore states that these posts may only be appointed as a Finnish citizen, but that means that they may, of course, also have other citizenships. Personally, I would have thought that there are quite a lot of posts on this list which could have been said that these posts can only be appointed as a Finnish citizen. There are points here where this question of loyalty comes up in my opinion that I will be wondering, for example, if there is another similar country in the world, when, in the future, there could be a Russian person in Finland, or a Russian citizen in Finland, who can be the number one person in our armed forces in the future, not the President, but the highest player after him. Of course, it's a rather unusual situation. In fact, this person could still have a third nationality, and then, of course, we need to think about how his loyalty would work. Of course, when this comprehensive safety assessment is carried out, it is an analysis of the moment, and this situation must be followed up for each of us. Today, during Question Time, we discussed radicalisation, for example, and in that way, of course, there can be changes in these people who have left Finland to fight, for example, in the ranks of the Daesh terrorist organisation: Some are Finnish citizens only, and their loyalty to Finland has changed. They have chosen the other side, and the protection police estimate that even the threat of terrorist attacks in Finland has increased. Many of these attacks, which have now taken place in Europe, have been carried out by a citizen of that country, who has hit his own country with that radicalisation. So, of course, loyalty can be lost at a later stage and not just at a time when, for example, a decision is made as to whether to go on a career as an officer or somewhere else. It can certainly happen to anyone for various reasons. Mr President! This comprehensive safety assessment is a means to address the fact that we have loyal people for Finland in our key tasks in the future. That is a good way, and it is good that it is extended. But I would like to ask Mr Vehviläinen who is present: can the comprehensive safety assessment say, for example, that, for example: A double citizen couldn't rise to the highest military mission? Could it be a point in the safety assessment which would allow this limitation to be made without Article 6(2) of the Constitution on discrimination being carried out, of course this is an interesting question, or is Finland really a country in the world where a Russian person could be at the top of the armed forces in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u89	Mr President, ärade talman! Is loyalty a legal question, I think it is very legitimate to ask. It is certainly partly legal, but above all it is a social issue. There has been a great deal of research into dual citizenship, especially in the context of immigration and emigration, and there are two few different schools in what contributes to the stability of the structure of society, which promotes loyalty. Another school says you have to prove yourself loyal first, then you can get citizenship, and another school says that that citizenship actually contributes very much to that loyalty, that is how you involve a person in society and you want to build it. This school is more prominent today. It is thought to be a way to strengthen loyalty, to earn trust. Building trust in the State and in the Community does not take place by deciding on it, nor does it depend on a piece of paper, but it is a question of building it. That is why it has been thought that citizenship is one of the most important instruments, and the people who want to achieve it, such as the Finnish citizenship that is by no means easy to obtain, have generally fought very hard for it and tried to meet those demands. In that sense, I believe that they should be respected, and that is already quite a sign. The difference is that there are certainly people who in some way mala fide do different things in society, but they will probably be able to do things regardless of whether they are Finnish citizens, and some people are always Finnish citizens. This is, of course, a matter of great personal concern to me, and it is interesting in that sense that it is felt that dual citizenship, for example, is something in which people have a vague relationship of trust with Finland. I can tell you that's not true. It is quite certain that if those who have acquired that dual citizenship very recently are, in a way, pressured to wonder which of them will give up, then surely they will give up the other if they live in Finland. Thus, in a way, it does not actually solve the challenges posed by this law. I would like to say that I am grateful to Mr Vehviläinen for choosing this option, i.e. not to exclude dual citizens. I do not think that it would have served the good objectives and important objectives of this law as such. I agree with them, and I think it is important to raise this issue. This is an important conversation. I recommend that the Ombudsman's statement be examined in which this legal aspect of discrimination and equality is examined. I also think it is very important not only that we do not enter into a debate where we question the loyalty of people who want to be members of this society. We know just about all the examples that that loyalty or loyalty, this kind of distrust, comes from things other than a passport. I'm afraid that's the way it is. I understand that there are tasks in which these security investigations are carried out, and I understand that they must be carried out and so on, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that if such an option had been chosen, that only the fact that there is a double citizen somehow makes access to certain posts impossible, it would be legal discrimination and, in my opinion, would not even be possible under our legislation. Promoting equality is also an obligation of the legislator under our legislation, we will not be freed from it, and discrimination would not be that. I believe that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman speaks very wisely and talks about the need for such a security clearance to be carried out in a comprehensive manner. Citizenship or dual nationality alone or foreign affiliation cannot be merely the matter — for example, having a family is married to a person with a foreign background — who determines, but must take the whole into account. I would like to emphasise this, as has actually been done in this government proposal. It is clear, however, that there is a great deal to be done here to extend this category of posts, which will then be accompanied by such a safety assessment, which will go beyond this risk of alien ties. It is perhaps important to emphasise that these tasks differ considerably if you think about the need for security, if you say so. There is a very different risk to national security if, for example, there is a high ministry office or a batch inspector or a police officer or a judge, everyone has their own special characteristics. And perhaps it would be good to remember that many times we have also been made aware of the fact that we have too few people of foreign background or foreign ties, for example, within the police. It would be very important for us to have more diversity in the area of ethnic police too, and this legislation should not prevent it so that we cannot continue to do so. I think it is good to have this debate, but I would like to emphasise that this applies to a very large number of people, concerns many children who have acquired a second nationality from birth, and the only link to that country in which they live — perhaps the parent’s home country — is that they should have that passport. I have a second passport from centuries ago, and that doesn't mean much but that it's some kind of connection to that family. But you live in this society and want to be a central member of this society. I think it would be really sad if these young people and these people, in a way, had to experience that this is a bad thing and an unpleasant thing or put them in some kind of dark light. I hope that this proposal will be dealt with both legally and in some way socially. In that sense, I am pleased that the government has made such a proposal which, in my opinion, respects people's different backgrounds. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u90	Mr President! This amendment to Articles 7 and 8c of the Civil Service Act and the amendment of the Security Act is very good and worthy of support. We have been talking a lot about national security in this house lately, and we all know why: the security situation in Europe and the world has changed very radically and in a worse way in recent years. In my opinion, there is no room for naivety in this country. Nor is it a question of equality or equality in any way if a nation looks at its own security and selects people who are certainly the best for this country. It is not a question of equality, for example, if, for example, a person who fulfils the conditions of the post of Commander of Defence Forces or as Head of Staff of the Ministry is definitely elected. If one is not qualified or eligible for it for any other reason and for investigative reasons, there can be no question of equality at all. There are a million other ways to serve this country. When security investigations are carried out in respect of the highest positions — as Minister Vehviläinen said — there were about 23,000 posts, as regards such a safety report and then an assessment of whether a person is fit to carry out that post — so that that office will be carried out in the best possible way for the national interests of the Finnish nation and Finland, I think that is a good thing. This issue of the security report, which we have been discussing today, is extremely important because today's ict, the modern means of communication, the means of intelligence are enormous. When you remember the American incident of data leaks where a few computer clicks leaked a huge number of documents into the world's networks that continue to spread on the Internet, and you never get them out of there, so when you select people in such important positions who have access to classified data, you have to have the perfect credit for those people's backgrounds, that they are a reliable person and that they are in Finland's national interest and only in Finland's national interest. It does not in any way offend me if a Swedish person, or now an African or an Asian person, is elected to office, and for him there is probably another job in this country if he wants to work in this country, so I do not see it as discrimination in any way when a country elects government officials for important tasks. It is a matter of national security. And a small nation if anyone has to watch their own national security extremely carefully. The fact that the security reports are on the increase and that the report is being made to all senior government officials seems to me to be a good thing. There's no point demonizing the fact that people's backgrounds are being investigated. I find that quite normal when people are selected for important tasks, just as people in the day care centre today are required to have certain explanations, as many others are required to do, and almost every workplace already has a commitment to certain things. There's nothing weird about it. It is not discrimination, it is that an employer who pays a salary for a job wants to ensure that the person who works for it is the best person possible to carry out that work in all respects. State security matters are more important every day from now on, and I hope that the intelligence law, which Minister Risikko also mentioned during Question Time and which is now coming to Parliament on a very busy schedule, will be adopted as quickly as possible, because, as Minister Risikko said in his own speech in Question Time, Finland is the only democratic European country that still lacks this legislation. In other words, we are, in a way, an attractive source of intelligence when we are not up-to-date with the existing intelligence legislation. It must be borne in mind that when officials perform their own duties, our constitution states that it is a very legal activity: all public activities must be governed by law and the law must be strictly observed. In other words, in the present case, our officials, when there is no amendment to the Civil Service Act or the Intelligence Act, are faced with a very overwhelming task: to work for Finland and investigate certain matters, but when the law does not allow it to do so. Of course, an official cannot compose in his work, in which case he commits an official offence, that is a serious matter. That is why Parliament must assume its responsibilities in this matter, to deal with this issue quickly. I would like to thank Minister Vehviläinen for this. He's been very firm about bringing this bill here. I hope that the same rigidity will be achieved in this House as soon as possible, and that the intelligence legislation will also be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u91	Mr President! Security of the nation is an extremely important issue and we are all committed to taking care of it. At the same time, the fundamental rights of citizens are also very important. Both these issues must be managed in a reliable way so that no one has to worry about Finland, not because of national security, but not because of the risk that their own fundamental rights will suffer. That is why this issue and this issue cannot be dealt with with with with passion or arousal, including hysteria. The situation in Finland is extremely peaceful. There is nothing specific in our knowledge that would give rise to incitement or to this hysteria that has occurred in some public speeches. I welcome the approach taken by the government following the debate. This solution to this issue has come at first sight in a reasonably balanced and good way: it has been assumed that we are not going to restrict our citizens to two, reliable and unreliable, but that we are looking at genuine potential risks or false ties on the basis of a safety assessment, but not by dividing our citizens into goats and sheep, whether they have another passport in addition to the Finnish passport. In my opinion, unfortunately, there have been many speeches in this debate that have created distrust and put whole populations under suspicion. It is also a very bad policy for the unity of the nation and also for the inclusion of large groups, thousands of people, in Finland's society. I find those speeches that label entire sections of the population unreliable on the basis of what they have moved from or what other passport they have retained unhappy. That is also why this bill, as presented by Minister Vehviläinen, shows a more balanced, correct approach. It is good to remind you that Finland has deliberately opened up the possibility of dual citizenship itself, i.e. we have given our own citizens the opportunity both to hold a Finnish passport and to obtain a foreign passport. It has been a conscious solution in the past, and it also means that there are many Finnish citizens around the world who still have Finnish citizenship and then another country's nationality. It is good to start from the basic observation that this debate that we are now having on Finland also applies to these Finnish citizens who are in the world and who have also maintained ties with Finland in the form of a passport but who have taken dual citizenship from their new country of employment or country of employment, are more permanently established abroad. The question is also that when they have this Finnish citizenship, how do we want them to be treated? There must be a starting point for us to understand that our approach here does not only apply to us, but must then also look at those who have left Finland who have dual citizenship, whether we would accept, for their part, such exclusive solutions, in which the Finnish passport would be regarded as an act of mistrust or disloyalty. Then it should also be noted that we cannot make a distinction in passports according to what country’s passport happens to be in the pocket, and people should not be stamped by it. We know that there are also people with dual nationality in the country's government. So there are ministers with dual citizenship, but so far we have not thought that it would constitute some aspect of unreliability or that we doubt the loyalty of such a minister to Finland. The world is increasingly international, people move, work for long periods in a country other than the country of birth, but then, at some point, they can return to their country of origin or, through this dual citizenship, they want to maintain contact with it in their own country of birth. It is part of this day, and this same decision has been made in many other countries. Therefore, instead of citizenship, I believe that establishing links is a peaceful, balanced and correct way of dealing with matters without establishing the fundamental rights of citizens in a categorical way to resolve and divide them into two groups on the basis of where they were born or what kind of passport they currently have in their pockets. This procedure, which is presented here, is once again leading to a very significant increase in the rights of the protection police, of the aid, of the supervision and of other rights. The adoption of such a comprehensive safety report and its opinions are very important. They can also have an impact on people’s career development and may even have an impact on the fact that a job does not open up. When this is the case, it is absolutely essential that the supervision of the protection police is considered to be substantially new. We've had some bad experiences with police supervision. The systems that have been created have not worked. When the police had a record of professional criminals, whether it was called atari, its supervision was entrusted to the Data Protection Supervisor. He made an annual statement that the supervision has been carried out, there is no comment to be made, and on that Parliament has also examined the operation of the krp and the existence of such registers. After all, Parliament cannot go and see what has been written in the registers and whether they are appropriate. Now, later on, in connection with this drug case, it turned out that there was a record of Finnish citizens and foreign citizens on all kinds of grounds and without any real understanding of the relationship between the activities of persons and their registration. The only reason could have been to have had a car on the same street as the motorcycle gang’s clubhouse. Well, if this kind of information is stored and then used in a person's assessment, then will be a very difficult legal area. It was worrying to me in this debate that the Data Protection Supervisor had, however, issued clean papers from this register before these names began to appear through leaks. That is why we find that, in this case of the subsidy, Parliament should take very seriously the organisation of parliamentary control over the subsidy so that there is a real-time link to the operation of the subsidy, which can ensure in different ways that the power that comes to the protection police is not in any way misused. This is a serious issue that needs to be addressed in the early stages and not, as happened in this Krp case, when leaks reveal that there are problems, then they will be addressed and new solutions will be taken. So it is extremely important that this is handled properly, calmly, not stigmatize any part of the population, not create unjustified threats or stimulate people against one another. It is a sign of a civilised Nordic society that such matters are handled in a responsible and serious manner, with a view to the protection of citizens' rights and respect for the fundamental rights of every Finnish citizen. Thank you again for the good work done so far by Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u92	Mr President! I, too, am one of those who are pleased that the government in this difficult matter can say, came up with a solution that respects our rule of law in a very deep way, and chose this path through personal security reports, as it were. In itself, you may say, the existence of a conflict of loyalty should not be ruled out. Every country has to take that into account, but the choice of a nihilistic ban model would have led, from the point of view of civil rights, to the very kind of arrangement described earlier by Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Biaudet. A short-piped shotgun would have shot a far-off fly, caused problems for a huge number of others. As dual citizens, we have people who are born dual citizens or who have moved from Finland to other parts of Finland, or there are tens of thousands who have come to Finland, value this country and society and want to build this. We must also have the ability to assess this potential conflict of loyalty, and it can then be taken into account during the appointment process. I am pleased that this solution has been found in this way, and Mr Heinonen's somewhat provocative question could be answered that, apart from the fact that the person to be assigned to the task in question has certainly been subject to a safety check at the previous stages of his career, one must also choose a denominator who can use common sense in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u94	Mr. Speaker! I very much appreciate Mr Heinäluoma's good speech. It was versatile, knowledgeable, and it contained a lot of valuable information. Furthermore, I appreciate the fact that Mr Heinäluoma, who is a member of the opposition, gave a great deal of recognition for the good work he has done for Mr Vehviläinen, which is quite rare here. Only a person who knows the matter will be able to appreciate the work of the government from the right point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u95	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. At this stage, does Deputy Attorney General Risto Sandkatainen wish to speak? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u96	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to present the Government Attorney General's Report for 2016. As in the past, the Annual Report has included opinions given to ministries, statements of decisions on measures to deal with complaints and legal statements given to the ministries in matters of judicial supervision and information related to the operation of the supervision of lawyers. Mr President! My task in this referral debate is to focus on explaining the 2016 report. However, due to an extensive article published on the policy page of Helsingin Sanomat on 25 May on the day of the funeral of the Honored President of the former Republic, Mauno Koivisto, it is necessary to briefly address the issues related to the process of appointing the Chancellor of Justice. This issue also relates to the case of the Chancellor of Justice in that the matter of the appointment of the Chancellor of Justice became topical last year, in the reporting year, when Jaakko Jonkka informed his closest colleagues in late autumn of his intention to retire in the spring of this year and then asked about my chances of continuing to work so that the two decision-makers of the Office would not retire at the same time. The Chancellor of Justice was due to take office immediately after the May 2nd. In particular, it can now be noted in retrospect that the time from the formal resignation of the Chancellor of Justice to the intended date of the opening of the new office — that was just under three months — was very short. However, neither the Chancellor of Justice who requested the resignation, nor any official who prepared the appointment at the Ministry of Justice, could have been aware that, in the context of the Government's so-called mid-term review, the number of ministers was increased and, among other things, the duties of the Minister of Justice were assigned to the new Minister. It is appropriate that the Minister of Justice, who has just begun his duties, and also the Minister of Justice responsible for the Supreme Appointments of the Attorney General's Office, was given the opportunity to familiarise himself with the matter of appointment and to adopt his or her own position on it. Of course, when it came to the Chancellor of Justice acting under the Constitution in connection with the Government, this also concerned other members of the Government, in particular the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic who made the appointment decision. By the time I reached my age of two and a half years, I and, I believe, the entire staff of the Attorney General's Office expected that the new Chancellor of Justice could have started the task on the day originally planned. On the other hand, due to the criticism of the time when the Chancellor of Justice began, it should be noted emphatically that the Constitution contains precise provisions which have been established over the years in order to prevent the Chancellor of Justice from carrying out his duties. I myself have been acting as Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Deputy Chancellor of Justice for about 10 years. By a relatively small combination, I could calculate how many years I have been carrying out the duties of Chancellor of Justice in accordance with Article 69 of the Constitution. Without going into detail, I can say, for example, that since the end of last year, I have already carried out the duties of the Chancellor of Justice longer than the appointed Chancellor of Justice will do in the rest of the year, which has been the subject of this criticism. The Chancellor of Justice as an individual official is, of course, a person, but when it comes to the role of the Supreme Government and the President of the Republic in judicial review, as provided for in the Constitution, it is an institution whose existence and full capacity for action in all situations cannot be doubted. For more than a quarter of a century, acting in the role of the Chancellor of Justice and Deputy Chancellor of Justice, it has been difficult for me to follow the full list of those who have been thrown out of the newspaper article mentioned above, according to which "it is very problematic in constitutional terms that Finland does not have a Chancellor of Justice until the turn of the year" or that "these temporary arrangements undermine the independence, authority and credibility of the Chancellor of Justice's role". As has been said, it is not, and never before, a matter of a temporary arrangement, but of a clear constitutional procedure to ensure that an official appointed to it by the President of the Republic after the application procedure is responsible for the role of judicial review of the President of the Government and the President of the Republic. Mr President! In addition to monitoring the legality of the Government, the investigation of complaints made by citizens — or, as it should be said today, by people — and sometimes by associations and other associations remains another of the main tasks of the Chancellor of Justice. They have traditionally presented policy solutions for the reporting year by administrative sector in the annual report. As the complainant changes, as in 2014, for example, the number of complaints has always increased slightly, but otherwise it is well established around 2000 complaints in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. Questions relating to the handling and settlement of complaints, as well as questions relating to the wider development of any other office of the Chancellor of Justice, do not concern me in this context at a fixed time. They shall remain permanently in office for the first person to take office. However, with reference to my report, pages 24 to 28 of the report, there has been a constant increase in the number of unidentifiable, mixed, non-competent, pending or already resolved cases, and so on, which are not legally effective. This certainly applies also to the second supreme judicial authority, the Parliamentary Ombudsman. In 2011, in the context of the reform of the procedure for dealing with complaints carried out by a change of law in both authorities, it was concluded that there was no legal limitation on the lodging of complaints and that there were no conditions for the lodging of complaints. This was a good solution at the time. However, in the event of an increase in complaints which are minor or even useless in terms of legality control, both legal controllers — I repeat: both legal controllers — should jointly consider ways of curbing such a flow of complaints. Following the uniform, more detailed guidance on the complaint procedure published on the website of both law enforcement authorities, our client base could gradually be taught to new appropriate practices so that apparently useless, non-competent, redefining and quite a lot of totally inappropriate writings would no longer even be registered as complaints. Legally, the question would be very easy to put into practice, because the basic nature of the administrative complaint — which is the administrative complaint — and the basic requirements imposed on it, at least in administrative law and in practice, have received their well-established formats. It does not violate anyone’s rights, but at the same time considers what is work and what is productive work in the administration today. Mr President! Mr Jaakko Jonka's report, on pages 12 to 23 of the report, concerns a lively public debate at the end of the reporting year, referring to the role of the Chancellor of Justice in the preliminary control of the constitutionality of the laws. In this situation, my role is not to present the development ideas of the Government's law enforcement or the so-called list inspection, which is more narrowly stated. Of course there would be. My intention is that I could still do such things directly to Attorney General Tuomas Pöyst. In this context, I would like to highlight just one practical aspect, but important for the effectiveness of work and the dynamics of work. The Chancellor of Justice conducts a weekly, mentally and materially consuming list audit of the Government's decision-making process on the basis of already distributed presentation lists. The agendas come into the system on Tuesdays, and the intention is that, as early as Thursday, they will be decided in the General Assembly of the Government — sometimes in the 1980s, Mauno Koivisto said that Monday they will then be accused, but it has nothing to do with this date. On a normal week on the list, such a pace of work can be considered sufficient when inspection work focuses on legal matters and also on certain essential issues, and not on quality control at all. But at the time of the larger and more socially important government proposals, the main measure of the legality check is that the proposal meets minimum requirements, basic requirements, that it can be submitted as a government proposal to Parliament as a matter of fact. It is well known that the Chancellor of Justice does not have the power to suspend a process in which the government wishes to submit a proposal to Parliament, a bill. To a certain extent it can be stopped, or not stopped, but removed from the list and supplemented and improved, but there is not even a great deal of time for it. The most chaotic situation is always in the autumn of the last parliamentary term, when the world must be completed at the legislative level at once, and there will be government proposals for Parliament for weeks, from September to October, including November, thousands of pages every week, 35 cents in Finnish and 35 cents in Swedish per week. Everyone knows what kind of law enforcement, not to mention quality control, can be practiced on those two days. Mr President! It is therefore necessary to step up the process of constitutionality and other judicial review of the government's proposals, which are central to the Chancellor of Justice's central tasks. Development activities need to be carried out in cooperation with ministries that prepare government proposals. However, even effective reform of working practices must continue to be the basis of the fundamental role of the Chancellor of Justice as guardian of the legality of the decision-making of the Government, as enshrined in Article 108 of the Constitution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u97	Mr. Speaker! It is a very good thing that the above speech actually stated, first of all, that the institution of the Chancellor of Justice always works. It was so strange to write a newspaper that hesitated to work. Secondly, yesterday the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman was on the table, and it became clear from it that there has been a lot of haste over the years over the years to clarify these tasks on the basis of regulations, and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice has at least responded to this. When I was a lawyer in a long time, I was able to say that people do not have accurate information on what is being complained to the Ombudsman or the Chancellor of Justice. In some way, it is considered an extra means of redress in Finnish human nature. I agree with the speaker that this is leading to an impossible situation. Even in a somewhat hopeless, hopeless situation in the human mind, you turn to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, or even the Chancellor of Justice, to whom such so-called pointless and impossible complaints do not in any way belong. There is a need for clarification, and I agree with the foregoing that these should be removed in some legal way, because it creates unnecessary work in so many ways in a valuable Governing Body. In many ways, though, it is a salvation for some desperate person to write to an institution, and yet there will be some kind of answer for him.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u98	Mr President! Of course, I have not been able to read this report, but I have been browsing this debate while listening to it and I have already stopped at the first page on the issue of the level of legislation. We have talked about this quite often here, and that is why perhaps the text on pages 14 and 15 of the report, which refers to the systematic problems of drafting the law, happened to my eyes. This is a direct quote: "Ministers should ensure that they have sufficient professional capacity to prepare laws, including those that identify and know constitutional issues. However, this is not just a question of professional competence for preparatory officials. The economic situation and the need for savings have, as I see it, brought an increasing amount of urgency and pressure from the political side on the preparation of civil servants. A kind of peak here is the fact that fiscal interests are openly justified even in raising the level of punishment. The appropriate question is whether the records of the government programme, the political guidelines decided quickly without preliminary legal preparation and the following tense timetables for drafting the law can make it difficult to take constitutional considerations into account. There may be references to such a thing." This is a pretty strong text. Mr President! Legislative work should never be so busy that work is done with inadequate knowledge or poor preparation. This issue has also been addressed by the Legislative Review Council, and it has done a very good job and has contributed to highlighting these shortcomings in legislative work. Unfortunately, despite these shortcomings, the shortcomings have not been eliminated, and they have also been seen here this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u99	Mr President! I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough speech and also, if you could say so, for his personal speech at the beginning of our debate. It is precisely in this time period that we need a functioning, up-to-date and well-resourced Chancellor of Justice and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. We have an exceptionally high number of very challenging reform projects at the same time, and they are largely of a legislative nature, which will be resolved through laws here in Parliament. Over the last few months and the last two years, there has been an increasing debate about whether the level of legislative proposals coming to Parliament is adequate. Particular attention has been paid to whether the constitutional aspects have been properly weighed up in the proposals. When that debate has been plentiful than in the previous parliamentary term, I tend to think that this number of debates already indicates that the number of problems is actually greater than it has been in the past. In his newspaper statement, Attorney General Jonkka did swoop into an anthill, which triggered a big public debate, and then later in his statement he sought to balance the debate, if not even to balance the various aspects. This must also be because there is a great deal of political burden and political considerations on this issue, even though it is primarily about legal matters and the level of drafting of laws. However, I do not believe that this debate on the discharge of the office of Chancellor of Justice is a question of assessing personal qualifications in the substitute arrangement. I'm... [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I would ask the speaker to continue with the floor. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u102	Mr President! We are talking about very important issues in general, and it is certainly true that we have come across very often in recent times a debate on the level of legislation and that sometimes because of haste, sometimes for other reasons, we have to say here in Parliament that the drafting of the law may not have been as good as it might have been, and that is why all the questions relating to this whole, the resources and this are very important. Yes, I also paid serious attention to the fact that, among other things, there was mention here of urgency, which is very often the case, and that there are a lot of things to be resolved, read and passed through in a very short, fast time. President! As far as I am concerned, I agree with what Mr Heinäluoma has just said. No, I do not want to complain in any way about the holder of the post, but to say out loud that, of course, a certain problem is that, here, however, quite a long time is behind this permanent holder. I think it was quite well said that it is a good thing that it is said here, however, because it is certainly not the most appropriate thing in the world, and then specifically because things like this would not become permanent practice overall. For my part, Mr President, I would also like to stress that we must also, of course, see the certain fact that this future Chancellor of Justice, Mr Pöyst, has this major task of preparing for war, and I am sure that in the future these matters will also be looked at together in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u103	Mr President! I would like to add my voice to the thanks that have been expressed here. to the Chancellor of Justice on the presentation of this matter and on the very frank speech. It is true that the role of the Chancellor of Justice, especially in a situation where, as is currently the case, very major reforms are being carried out, with a view to examining them and to stating their position on whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or not, is certainly a challenging task. It now comes to mind whether the Attorney General's Office and the Government have jointly considered what should be done in practice. We have a law enforcement board, we have an evaluation board. Should there now be something more that would make it possible or would, then, be easier to carry out the oversight task of the Chancellor of Justice that he is legally entitled to? I myself would like to raise a question which concerns me. When the European Union becomes a very important piece of legislation for us, will anyone check whether they are in any way proportionate to the Constitution in force in Finland? I know of the collisions, and at least in the case of the matter that I had to deal with myself during my ministry, first the constitutional experts in Finland told me that this Constitution of Finland is true, that this can be done, but then a year and a half later a letter came from the Commission that this legislation adopted by Parliament concerning the right to payment was to be amended. And so we had to change it in order to avoid going to the Luxembourg Court. That is why I would like to make this point: do we really have a body to look at the European Union and its provisions in relation to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u104	Mr President! I would like to continue with this aspect of the future: what has happened has happened and there are now no changes to it. But when we have a high head of the Chancellor's Office here, I would like to ask him how he sees this public debate on accessibility. In other words, the future official has been centrally responsible for preparing the social services area, has obviously handled it very well, and precisely because he has been a good man, he is apparently wanted to be kept here until the end, which then also creates this problem, that he cannot take office immediately. And then I come to this question: it would certainly be good to hear, when it concerns many people, whether there will be a situation in which the future chancellor would not be able to take a position on possible complaints in the war zone. It is a big issue and a large entity, both in terms of the legal security of citizens and in terms of the functioning of the organisations of both old and new societies, such as future regional associations, and also in terms of the functioning of ministries, so the fact that they are being handled by whom and the fact that their objectivity can be trusted is of course of great importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u105	Mr President! I will be the first to answer this specific question raised by Mr Heinäluoma. It was a legitimate question in itself, but of course the current Under-Secretary of State Pöysti, who, as one of the leading project officials, is preparing a major legislative project... There have been many of them in the past: we can refer to the former Chancellor of Justice, Paavo Nikula, who, together with Professor Viljanen, prepared a new constitution for Finland, and no one suggested at the time when he became the Chancellor of Justice that he was somewhat inaccessible to dealing with matters relating to the new Constitution. — This is some kind of bad reference, but it is a reference, which is the right question. These concrete complaints are dealt with specifically by the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, and the Chancellor of Justice deals mainly with complaints when they concern members of the Government or ministries and perhaps sometimes supreme courts if they are brought before them. But it is probably the case that the specific complaints about the social areas and the field in general which will then be established under the law are that people do not receive the services provided by the law, and so on, and are dealt with by the Deputy Chancellor of Justice. There I see no obstacles, and then, of course, if there comes an expert inquiry in the direction of Parliament and so on, he wonders if he can go. The main thing is that he doesn't sit on two stools, and I'm sure we know, and he knows what being an obstacle means. I would not see this as a very big problem. Since then, these issues, such as the division of labour and the development of activities between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, have also been discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during a number of reports, and we simply need to do something about them. It is not appropriate for a matter to be considered for a very long time without something happening. But what is essential is that there must be some development activity in both agencies, and it must be carried out in a ministerial manner or otherwise in such a way that it can be said that both are committed to it, and it does not go ahead with either agency, but together. Obviously, the customer base is already conscious — Juhantalo correctly pointed out that the citizens do not necessarily know, but I understand that they do know quite a lot — because there will be some 5,000 complaints to the Parliamentary Ombudsman and we will have about 2000 complaints. And we also have quite a lot of complaints about issues like more or less publicity applications, the type of tabloids, something that suddenly becomes 25 complaints. There need only be four paragraphs of a minister's procedure in the Olympic Law or in some other context, four paragraphs of such phenomena, and there will be a hundred complaints concerning a member of the Government's procedure, which is not even part of our duties, and so on. For us, it has been the case that the house of such a larger development was given a real boost when Jorma S. Aalto, in the late 80s, strengthened Government affairs in the Chancellor's Office and, in the end, a separate department was set up for Government affairs. He is the person who raised the Government issues to the intensity and professional level in which they are now. In fact, since the prosecutor's office split up, there have not been very large reform projects. At the practical level, of course, the procedures have been changed. It is not a very big economic issue — the budget of both agencies is rather small — but, especially for the citizens and then for the rational implementation of this complaint, there is room for development, that is quite clear. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will once again take a position on this and that it will go ahead — but on a sufficiently broad basis — and will now produce results. Then there is the question of the level of legislation. It is a theme that has been on the agenda for a great many occasions in previous years. I myself remember that when the present regional government reform was carried out, and the second was a major university reform, there were very large articles about it. It had some of the same themes in the big picture as it is now, that is the problem — that the government programs were many hundreds of pages, and they had already been told not only what is being done, but also how it is done and in what time — that we should go as if we were going to go ahead as if we had to start a project and put officials to work. In big social matters, as the Tiitinen Commission has probably suggested, we must continue to use a more socially based preparation apparatus — before it was called a committee body, but it is not necessarily such a dynamic project organization in modern times — whose members have the backbone that they can also decide the position of the party there. Some triangular procedure has had its own results in those social conditions and still has value. But then, at the practical level, most of the time, it is a matter of requiring action very quickly. War reform is a top example of it, but also university reform, regional government reform, many other reforms, that the government has a great will in what is being done, but also in when it is to be done, and the worst of all, in what way it is done. Well, at that point, if it is even bigger, there will be difficulties with those implementing it, that is, with officials who will have to think about it. It has adopted new good working practices, so that it is no longer a matter of a lawyer going into a window and thinking about some law of his own time and then bringing his own proposal on it, but they already use a multiprofessional system of this kind, that the preparatory machinery has already tied up the ministries that belong to it, and then the financial people and various other experts who are not septums. But then, on the legal side, in these legislative preparations themselves, it is true that it is not popular action. I don't think it's very popular, very desirable. In the old days, the legislative adviser was an important official and I'm sure the Ministry of Justice still has, but in the ministries, the legislative officials may not be as desirable as that would require. One is the other such resource issue and how things are viewed. For example, Jonka and many others have stressed the importance of the Chiefs of Staff or others, the importance of the house in general that legislative work is the product that comes out of many ministries and its quality must be decent. There are ministries run by the Chief of Staff, who is himself a lawyer and a long-standing legislator, but in many ministries there is also a certain kind of speed blindness in the civil service. I do not want to mention any ministries here in particular, but we are going to go pretty hard on a project that will then only later say that this is not going to happen. Sometimes it may be that this is allowed to happen. It's quite a waste of resources. Mr Anttila was quite right to intervene in this verification of the constitutionality of EU affairs. It has, of course, been said in the Ministry of Justice’s draft law, when the standard is only mechanically, or not mechanically, but more or less at a practical level, to come into force at national level, so that, in the context of its enforcement system, it is necessary to examine and clarify the consistency of its standard with the Finnish Constitution and fundamental rights. There is, of course, a requirement, but of course in practice it is the case that the speed at which they are to be implemented at national level, and especially if it is delayed, problems will arise. Even this spring, the Attorney General’s Office has — albeit from the Ministry’s own impulse towards us, not from its own observation — suspended and restored a project in which it has been established that the way in which a particular matter has been sought to be implemented by law in Finland is, as I said, a guest of the Finnish legal order. It concerned information systems and their publicity and the ability of the registered customer base, the industry, to say what information is placed in and what is not in their registers. There are others. But I will correct enough that there has been no law enforcement in Finland anymore, and the law drafting department of the Ministry of Justice is also a primary department that makes laws concerning the Ministry of Justice. There is no institution which, as it were, inspects — apart from such an inspection office which goes through the basic requirements of the law in a technical sense — there is no such institution that looks after the constitutionality. That's our job. And that is the limitations that have been stated several times with regard to the government's proposals that it only applies to those basic requirements. In public, professors and others do not necessarily know how much it does, because it is just the problem of working, that people always know what has been done, and then someone on the side can see whether it is done right or not, but no one outside knows what has never been let through. Of course, the most interesting matters of the Government are those that will never become matters of the Government, where it is shown that this is not progressing. These are not just in legislative matters. There are very important things, and then later one of the researchers can see at what point a matter was stopped and where it was not. There have been very important points here, Mr President, and for understandable reasons I cannot go into this filling process, because it is quite a question of things that cannot be affected at all in this context. But that's what I'm saying, and not to name it, that back in 2005, when the controller function was established in the public administration in Finland, it was founded by a recent law doctor, Tuomas Pöysti, who moved to the Ministry of Finance, about the time he visited us quite often — a highly sophisticated way to keep in touch — the respected Attorney General, Paavo Nikula, said that there must have been a person in the village who will one day sit here. This has been the case, and it is precisely a question of professionalism and all the other conditions of official service which I understand he has. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u106	Mr. Speaker! I'm very valuable to you. in writing. - (FR) The Chancellor of Justice's statement to the effect that they are also being treated with care and appreciation for the debate here yesterday on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report, in which there was a wish to clarify this very division of labour. There was little opinion that they had a more active desire and that the Attorney General's office had taken a slightly less favourable view of it. I hope this has been the wrong expression for them then. Indeed, it should be done entirely together, so that it is not of special interest to either of us. I understand, too, that this type of public broadcasting today will become related complaints, which are, as I am sure you say, pointless. When I think of such an ordinary citizen who does not care so much about public access to the press, one who is desperate and has gone through the normal means, he sometimes, even if he knows that this will not help, will still write a so-called complaint or wish, even a material appeal to the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who, in substance, does not belong there and whose object is wrong. Of course, it is pointless to deal with them in such a way — by whatever word it is now legally portrayed — that it should be carried out in such a lighter and hasty manner that it would not unduly interfere with the valuable work that is being done on both sides, but it would still be a valuable answer for such a desperate citizen in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u107	Mr President! Acting Attorney General's memoir of the first encounter With Mr Pöytt, I would like to say once again that I am truly convinced that Finland will have a good chancellor when he receives the post in due course. For I myself was in control as Minister of Finance, and in that connection I became acquainted with Pöyst and ended up not with the discovery that he was the future Chancellor of Justice, but with the observation that he was going to be a very important, key official for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u108	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 10/2017 vp. The debate is about to begin. The chairman of the committee, Mr Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u109	Mr President! I present the report of the Economic Committee on the report of the Parliamentary Banking Council for 2016. First of all, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs notes that the Bank of Finland acts as part of the European System of Central Banks as laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community and in the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. At national level, its status is governed by the Constitution and by the Act on the Bank of Finland. The Committee on Economic Affairs considers that the report of the Banking Council is a well-serviced report on financial market developments and on the activities of the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority during the reporting year. According to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, changes took place in the macroeconomic environment during 2016, the long-term impact of which is still difficult to assess. During the international financial crisis and the subsequent prolonged low inflation rate and the slow recovery of the euro area, several central banks have reduced their key interest rates to zero. However, in late autumn 2016, economic growth forecasts were adjusted somewhat upwards. According to a report received by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, growth is also broad-based and not just dependent on a few actors or sectors. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the possibility of supporting economic growth and speeding up inflation through interest rate policy has been substantially reduced by a sharp fall in short nominal interest rates. On the other hand, the range of instruments for central bank monetary policy has been extended to cover, inter alia, large-scale securities purchase programmes and longer-term financing by banks. In the reporting year, the ECB also implemented an expanded asset purchase programme from EUR 60 billion to EUR 80 billion. In addition, the Governing Council decided on a total of four new, targeted long-term refinancing operations with which banks applied for funding totalling EUR 506.5 billion. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the UK separation from the EU began to take place in June 2016. The long-term effects of the decision on large economies, such as China and the USA, are still difficult to anticipate at this stage. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also considers that risk-sharing requires that the risks of the banking sectors of the Member States be reduced before the creation of a common deposit guarantee scheme in the Member States and a common public provision for a resolution fund. The key question is how to deal with the problems of banks in difficulty, under the responsibility of the investor or through public capitalisation. However, it is noteworthy that despite structural problems, the crediting capacity of euro area banks improved during the reporting year. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also raises the issue of the financial markets in Finland. The Finnish banking sector’s own funds exceed the overall requirement of 10.5 per cent by EUR 14.6 billion. According to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, strong solvency served as a buffer for the deterioration of profitability prospects in the reporting year. The solvency of the insurance and occupational pension sector was also maintained at a good level despite the challenges of the operating environment, although subdued economic growth weakened the payment income of life insurance companies in particular. The Solvency II capital adequacy of life and insurance companies was also maintained at a good level. With regard to financial supervision, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy has stated that the common institutions of the Banking Union and the mutual responsibility for covering the costs of resolution must also be taken into account in the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority with the aim of providing credit insurance and sound functioning of pension institutions and other supervised entities, safeguarding the interests of insured persons and general confidence in the functioning of financial markets. According to the Committee, the role of European financial supervisory authorities in financial regulation has grown strongly in recent years and a large part of the new regulation is the guidance given by the authorities and complements the directives and regulations. That is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it important that regulation is transparent and that the practices of the various authorities in the Member States are consistent and compatible. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agrees with the recommendations made by the Banking Council in its report to the Financial Supervisory Authority, stating that some of the calls are a natural continuation of the calls made in the previous year's report and will also be further specified. In particular, the committee has drawn attention to the call to ensure access to basic banking services, including in the context of changes in the structures and operating models of the industry. In the reporting year 2016, the Financial Supervisory Authority has drawn the attention of service providers to the clarification of online banking services and payment card processing, the choice of appropriate services for the customer and the possibilities for people with functional limitations to access online and mobile communications. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy raised the issue of bank branches in the report of the 2015 Banking Council and its accompanying opinion. As a result, the Nordic financial market authorities have agreed on new forms of cooperation to improve cross-border supervision of significant branches. For example, the identification of Nordea branches as significant improves somewhat the role of the administrator of the host States by requiring the home administrator to notify it of the results of risk assessments and to consult on certain operational activities if they are relevant to the risks associated with liquid assets denominated in the currency of a Member State. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has also raised macro-prudential policy and, in its report on the report of the Board of Governors of the previous year, reiterates its comments on the extension of the range of instruments, according to which macro-prudential instruments currently lack a systemic risk buffer requirement to counter the risks arising from the banking system's structures. On central banking, the Committee notes that at the end of the reporting year, the Bank of Finland's total equity amounted to EUR 9.4 billion. Of this, the share of the stock and reserve fund was EUR 2.6 billion, the share of reserves excluding the pension provision was EUR 3.9 billion and the share of revaluation accounts was EUR 3.0 billion. Risk buffers strengthened during 2016. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy thus considers that the solvency of the Bank of Finland is sufficient to cover the risks arising from the performance of its tasks. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament adopt its opinion on the report and that Parliament do not have any comments on the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u110	Mr President! In general, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has worked very carefully in this regard, focusing on the issues raised in the report by the Banking Council and extending this slightly. However, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs also gives rise to some additional observations. The first concerns the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority and the investment advice of bankers and also banks. It has become clear to us that there are indisputable flaws in investment advice when investment advisors have given clients advice that is contrary to the interests of customers. These advices have been explicitly invited to invest assets in banks’ own investment funds even in a situation where the sale of past, including direct equity holdings, has caused a significant loss to the customer and then these investments in bank funds have not, however, resulted in the expected significant return that could have compensated for the consequences of the sale of these previous shares. This phenomenon has also been seen in the world. We have been talking about this for a long time in the United States and we have started to amend the legislation a long time ago. It has been stipulated that investment advisors must take the customer’s interest as the starting point for their operations, i.e. the advice must leave the customer’s needs. The advice given to an ordinary pensioner household or, for example, a student household must be such that it takes account of the customer’s overall situation. There is no call for the sale of assets whose sale is ultimately unnecessary to the customer's financial situation and with all the consequences unfavorable, and then when it is transferred here to the bank's own funds, the fact is that the bank is the one who earns from these transactions. In this respect, I assume that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will address this issue. It is clear that no bank expert sees this as a problem, no banker sees this as a problem, nor will we see that financial lobbyists are coming to talk about it. And unfortunately, our representatives of small investors are weak and do not have the time to go to their VAT warehouses here, so the parliamentarians must spontaneously raise this problem, which is of genuine importance, not just for tens of thousands, but for hundreds of thousands of people, in the daily work of households. The Bank is still highly valued in Finland, and rightly so, and the advice of the banks is treated with very special confidence. It is thought that when a bank urges you to do something, it is well - founded advice. I know a lot of cases myself, and there have also been approaches to myself in situations where, once you have looked at things, it has been said that this advice may not have been reasonable for the customer, but for the bank, however, when your products are marketed. So I would urge the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and its esteemed chairman, whom I know is right, to take up this issue. This is not going to work without Parliament taking this on its working list and the principles and obligations of investment advice are being genuinely reviewed. Fortunately, Finns in the long run are facing wealth, and that is how this concerns more families and more and more ordinary households. These investments are also of great importance in the sense that such investments are needed to meet the rising costs of care for old age; they are therefore not Scrooge Duck activity, but quite reasonable to prepare for the various events and different things in the life cycle, to take account of them. The second point which I would like to draw particular attention to in this connection is the issue of these risk buffers. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy concluded that last year the risk buffers in the Bank of Finland have been strengthened, and I myself made this observation. After all, at one point, at the beginning of the first government of Vanhanen in 2003, we had such a project that the state would have taken over the Bank of Finland's balance sheet. Fortunately, it was stopped here in Parliament. Then later, during the financial crisis, we saw that these balance sheets were needed. But on the other hand, now that these buffers of the Bank of Finland have been strengthened for a long time, we are beginning to see that these greater needs are on the side of the state here. That one can ask whether it is not time that instead of strengthening the buffers of the Bank of Finland — which are in very good condition — the buffers of the State were viewed. Every euro that is now left here in the buffers on the Bank of Finland then means additional debt on the state side. Therefore, when the Bank of Finland law defines this distribution of profits and says that, for a legitimate reason, this general rule can be derogated from, I believe that the justified reasons at the moment are such that strengthening the buffers of the Bank of Finland is not our primary task, but that it is the big task to break the debt of the State. This is, of course, only a small part of the suspension of the state's indebtedness, that the State should take its own income and that is all that is needed, but it is also worth pointing out because, to my surprise, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had not drawn attention to this issue. Then the third point that I would like the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to be able to open up is this macro-system risk management, of which the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy simply says very briefly that 'the macro-prudential instruments currently lack a systemic risk buffer requirement against the risks arising from the structures of the banking system'. It has, of course, been written in such a way that it goes by while reading, but I would like to hear from the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy what this system risk buffer requirement means, because I assume there is something real behind it that has an impact on the economy. Finally, I come to the fourth observation: I was rather surprised that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in connection with the Bank of Finland, does not at all consider the economic situation in Greece and other debt countries and their impact on the ECB system as a whole. It is known that these lending countries, such as Greece, will have an impact on the economy of other euro-area countries when euro-area countries have been through the ESM or even through direct funding, or before that, through the EFSF, to guarantee loans, and of course it will have an impact on the risks of central government finances. In the previous Parliament we had a representative, Kari Rajamäki, who always remembered to remind us of these central government risks in connection with this credit, and I think that this Parliament should have its own Kari Rajamäki, who remembers that all matters have their consequences. Well, it is known that risks have also been shared within the ECB system and that this Greek risk will have an impact not only on the functioning of the ECB system but also on the levels of risk. For the Bank of Finland: The Bank of Finland, like the other central banks of the ECB system, has renounced these returns on Greek loans, and that solution may itself be considered justified. Then I come to the observation that there is a debate in Brussels on the future of Greek lending, and there is also the Greek debt relief. There have been various proposals in this regard, and I think that this issue deserves its own consideration as well. It is well known, according to press reports, that one of the topics there is the extension of the loan periods for these loan securities, and then, according to press reports, there has been a debate about the possibility of maximum limits on interest rates. And, of course, these will also have implications for Finland’s state finances — I do not know whether there will be any impact on Finland Bank. When the Treaties of the European Union, like their predecessors, prohibit the euro countries and the EU countries from funding other Member States' budgets, this debt regime can come to a situation where it is quite close to this debate whether the budgets of other Member States are being financed if these costs are taken over, as is the case in this case, by other euro countries. I believe that it would also be justified to speak about these matters in connection with the Bank of Finland's activities, since this is a single entity, the ECB system, which has also played an important role in Greek lending. It's been one member of this Troika.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u111	Mr President! This was a good, well-founded and long speech and, in my opinion, was actually a complement to the committee's report. The committee has raised some very important major issues here, but it is precisely the kind of question that has just been raised in that speech that is, admittedly, a little lacking in this paper. So, of course, from this perspective of the people, from the point of view of everyday life, this investment advice is, in my view, a very important issue which was raised. I believe that there could be a willingness in the committee to intervene in this and, of course, from time to time, from time to time, from us bank representatives. But it is certainly not a bad thing that Parliament is also paying attention to these issues by its representatives. Of course, we are also very interested in this buffer issue, because it is quite right to see that there is more need on the part of the State at the moment, and that is when we come to these amounts of income, and it is well known that, for example, the Social Democrats in their own alternative budget would have done a little bit differently, that is to say, a little more money for the State in this economic situation, because the buffers there are still strong. President! In this context, I myself had thought to refer to the current situation today, namely that Greece is once again and now in the debate at the end of the Union. In this context too, of course, the question arises as to how these solutions in Greece will, in future, possibly increase risks in the state economy, increase responsibilities or risks, which is something we have often talked about in this context. As regards the Bank of Finland, the committee notes that the solvency of the Bank of Finland is sufficient to cover the risks arising from the performance of its tasks. Yes, but what about the real risks of Greece? President! I can see that... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u116	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs deals with the international economic policy situation, and it is not disputed that Finland's economy is not affected by how Britain's exit from the EU will move forward. It certainly has far greater significance for the British economy, which may even have positive meanings for some EU countries, but in any case it creates uncertainty. In the short term, there are not so many big swings in sight, but in the longer term it is difficult to say. The US's economic policy has become shorter, for there is no doubt that it is important for the global economy as a whole, as well as the fact that the situation in China is quite worrying with regard to debt and, if there are major changes, it will affect the world economy as a whole. The previous speeches have discussed the European economic policy framework for the Banking Union, discussed the degree of investor responsibility and the nature of public capitalisation and the relationship between them. It is great that the banks of Italy have not gone off the table in cooperation with the euro countries, the EU region, but that Italy has at least been able to get it off the table for the time being. This debate on Greece has come up. From the perspective of Finland, it must be important for the IMF to contribute to the Greek packages. In Greece, I remember, there have been almost 120 different kinds of measures, some tough cases, and it would appear that economic growth has begun in the country and it would be able to cope with these very harsh obligations, but it is tough and tough. In addition, when we talk about these branches and the banking sector, it is highly desirable that the Board succeeds in its goal of getting Nordea's head office in Finland, it would be a big Nordic financial institution for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u117	Mr President! I came to this toilet when I have to assume that two minutes isn't enough, but if that's enough, it's okay. This is, after all, the report of the Banking Council for 2016, which is the basis of this report, and perhaps it is not the case that there has been a very wide-ranging debate on what is going to happen in Greece, for example, or whether something else will come from there. And then, in my opinion, these effects of Brexit were also something that was discussed in committee, that what we can actually say about this now, in the context of the preparation of the report. Of course, you can't ignore it. It's perfectly clear. However, it is an integral part of the context of events, the operating environment and the financial world that was in Europe at the time of the report. On the other hand, however, the wisdom of the committee was not found — the less often the President-in-Office can find, but the Members could not find the wisdom — what this Brexit now means. We also had a debate on whether China or the USA, for example, will have a stronger role in the European financial markets and what practical effects it will have, but the wisdom was not found. We mentioned this, but we noted that these effects are still such that they are to be returned to, that they are not yet in a position to be reported today. But, as I said, this report is based precisely on this report from the Banking Council 2016. A system buffer is actually a provision for risk-based assets. This is the additional requirement of this kind, the additional solvency requirement and specifically the additional capital requirement. This buffer, when prepared for risk-based assets, is intended to provide for flexibility at national level. When our banking systems are not exactly the same in the countries of the European Union or in the euro countries and these national risks are higher, then it is justified that there should be a buffer for the preparation of the risks contained in the system. Of course, this is when the money in this buffer is collected, of course, an additional cost. The use of this systemic risk buffer is now a different debate as to how flexible it can be used nationally. There have been such proposals that if it is used more than 3 percent, it would then be a Commission decision. Then, as far as this revenue from the Bank of Finland is concerned, I personally believe, as Mr Heinäluoma did, that when the Bank of Finland has a very high degree of solvency, it would be possible to give a little more money to the state, to the state budget, so that we would have to take less of the central government debt, because we are in this situation now that the state is still in debt. But this is not exactly what was written in the report in committee, and now that I recall whether we had a debate of this nature, we did not have such a debate. Then Greece came up. Of course, we now have a situation where the government thinks so and the government's line is that Finland's responsibility is not increased for Greece, and now, of course, there are people in Luxembourg to deal with this issue. Then this section of the Financial Supervisory Authority: this debate was indeed held in committee and it was also discussed with the Financial Supervisory Authority about how the Financial Supervisory Authority supervises banks, bank investment advice. We did not raise this to this level in the report because it is precisely the report of the Banking Council for 2016, but this was given particular attention. The Financial Supervisory Authority told us about their supervisory approach, in fact, about how they monitor them. I thought it was a pretty good way. It was not in the style of asking for an e-mail reply, how you arrange this, but so-called mystic men go to the Financial Supervisory Authority to present a client. Following this type of supervision, the Financial Supervisory Authority has issued warnings to four banks about this incomplete or purpose-oriented investment activity. When this was heard in committee that this side is in good shape, then it was not written separately in this report because it is in good shape. This type of activity has been somewhat publicised, but I can assure you that, based on the information I have on this, it is now in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u118	Mr President! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for a factual and enlightening overview. However, I will continue the debate to the extent that, on the basis of what I have heard and what I have read, I doubt that these visits by the Financial Supervisory Authority, which were good to hear that they are being carried out, are, however, sufficient. This has radically changed banks' management and remuneration systems and has moved to the point where an individual banker has performance targets and bonuses and where one of the key issues is the marketing of these own fund products. This results in a phenomenon that I have seen in the experience of a number of people who then offer these bank products and are encouraged to sell other products in the customer's possession, such as direct stock market holdings, even though every third party can immediately see that this sale does not make sense, it leads to the taxing of a profit that has accumulated until then, and the return on these products may have been higher than in the past than in these bank investment funds. Therefore, although the committee has heard a good report from the Financial Supervisory Authority, I would still like to hope that this issue will be the subject of a special study in committee in order to deal with these problems. Many of these have been mentioned publicly, and I myself know a lot of cases where people have turned to me and asked me how this is going to be. Then, in some cases, the banks have agreed when I have called for compensation, including compensation, but of course the banks do not want to talk about this, because they do not want to open a door that would then lead to a larger movement, so I would like to hope that this issue will not be put on the check-in list yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u119	Mr President! I too would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his good answer. In particular, I noted it and I was very pleased about it now and will continue to do so, in these forthcoming debates, I will be delighted – I know it already – that you said personally that you feel that this income from the Bank of Finland could be considered a little more generously in this direction of the State at this time, because the needs are great here, so that the debt will be brought under control. I think it was a good thing that you also mentioned this in your own response. President! I would still remain a little in this Greece, just because this is just as topical today's topic. Indeed, I was watching headlines here from today's meeting, where the finance minister, Orpo, says that Greece should finally be released from its loose hang. Of course, since we do not now have precise situational information on what is happening there, in that sense, I think it is very important very soon to have assurances that the Finnish Government will, in fact, remain in the strict line that was taken at the time in these matters. What worries me, and also the social democrats, is that, if we go to great lengths to give these debt reliefs, then what will really happen in the future. You are well aware that this, if there are any arrangements for Greece, can lead to the question of what these other countries in crisis, Portugal and so on, want or require further action. Since the situation is genuinely that we are at risk of continuing and continuing this need for assistance, as it were, and of course there is a package after the package, it would, of course, be hoped that there would be some kind of comprehensive consideration. In particular, I would of course like to hear the views of the European Minister for Foreign Affairs, Terho, for example, which, however, is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u120	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoman is not now concerned, but is actually instructed that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should keep an eye on this matter, this investment advice, so that it is followed up in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u125	Mr President! I will also continue with this issue of Greece when it has a major impact on the euro area economy as a whole, on the future of the ECB system and, of course, on the various risks of the Bank of Finland. After all, there is now the question of the next tranche of the third debt programme. After all, the third debt programme was approved in late summer 2015 during the current government. The question now is whether or not this tranche of over EUR 7 billion will be paid to Greece. This additional EUR 7 billion loan — emergency loans, as they say — is a matter of its own. But then we come to this issue of debt arrangements, and we have to talk about this here, because we now have such legislation that these aid packages do not need to be brought into a large Chamber, but are buried in a large committee. I even regard it as a certain kind of mishap, because it means that the public's ability to see through the system is being weakened: what is it, what is happening, why, how much money it goes, where it goes, and what positions the various players take in this context? It is not to be seen now in the present system. I, too, drew attention to Mr Orpo's statement. I was rather surprised that what this meant was that Greece should be released from the loose hang. I do not want Greece to be held in any kind of hibernation, not loose or firm. But then we come to the point that this does not just mean that Minister Orpo is in the process of accepting additional bills for Finland. Is that what this means, or is it just to remove uncertainty from this 7 billion round? These amounts, which we are talking about here, have a major impact on central government finances and, therefore, on the Bank of Finland and the functioning of the ECB system as a whole, if countries:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u126	Mr President! As far as this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the previous speech are concerned, I thought to add that there was also a very wide-ranging debate in the committee on what the report of the Board of Governors refers to in relation to the indebtedness of private households. Once economic growth has started, it is quite clear that private consumption will then also increase. Unfortunately, however, it is in debt. That is not worrying, but it is something to be paid attention to. This is reflected in the report, as I recall, but the bank council had rightly drawn attention to it. But then there is something that does not appear in this report, which relates to this debate on Greece, which is now taking place here. At the moment, when the finance ministers are in Europe and are discussing it, I think that the situation is still about how the IMF can be committed to this Greek package, because it is once again a terriblely important lock for a small country such as Finland, that it also has the IMF on its way. Fortunately, however, most of these crisis countries are already on their feet and Greece is moving in that direction all the time. Yes, the Government's line is quite clear in that Finland's responsibilities must not increase or increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u127	Mr President! So, of course, this is an absolutely fundamental question, which is where we are going to end up now and what is Finland's line on its final decision. Indeed — for the sake of certainty, I do not want Greece to be held in any kind of hibernation — this loose log parable actually gave way to new doubts. Since the Minister of Finance suddenly states this, there must be something there, but that is not exactly what it means in this respect. This is the disciplinary attitude that the IMF is constantly demanding debt cuts, which, of course, we cannot accept: if, at the same time, we were to demand the IMF, then here is the famous equation where we have been dancing in circles for a long time now. After all, according to the press reports, Finland has been slightly less concerned about its position with regard to the IMF, but I think it is important, Mr President, that we do not now go into further reliefs where, in fact, the risks and responsibilities of Finland would increase and where, in fact, there could be a great risk that, at a later stage, the Finns would then, as if, pay interest on Greek loans. I do not think that this is the right way, and that is precisely why, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to what has been said here before, in previous debates, Mrs Heinäluoma has just reminded us of this. It is a good thing that the great committee, Parliament, is dealing with these issues all the time, but since they are not being discussed in this Chamber and this debate is not being held in public — for example, on these very issues of credit relief and others — it may therefore remain unclear to many people as to what is actually at stake. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u128	Mr President! This involvement of the IMF in this early phase of the Greek debt programme has been highly justified, necessary and useful. The IMF has a lot of expertise and expertise to deal with such debt situations and avoid bankruptcy. Although I do not agree with all the IMF advice, their involvement has been justified. But now you can ask if that time has passed. After all, it is not common to say out loud what this IMF line means. When the IMF calls on the euro countries and the mechanisms of the euro countries, such as the ESM, to cut debt capital, it certainly does not mean that it applies to the debts that the IMF itself has given, no, of course not. The IMF calls for EU countries to cut these debts; the IMF's debt capital must not be touched. Not only that, but in addition to this, the IMF is charging a very disproportionate interest rate from Greece, a multiple interest rate against which the EU countries, either directly or through the ESM, have provided funding for Greece. In other words, the IMF accounts for a situation in which Greece has been in need. And in this situation, I believe that the demand for the IMF to be involved here has lost its sense of meaning. It therefore means that this possibility for the IMF to account will continue. And who are the bills transferred to?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u131	President! That is why I have asked for a supplementary speech here, when the idea of a public debate on these EU issues was somewhat missing. After all, we had this one foreign policy debate, which also involved European Union affairs as such, but these are such a big picture that we should now be able to have a topical debate or other on this issue of condensation of the European Union and so on. And now, as far as the economic side is concerned, this came up a little while back in Question Time when Mr Terho was asked whether something has now been agreed on in relation to the future of EMU and whether there will be closer cooperation in the future, more solidarity towards debt, for example towards a more common fiscal policy. A huge number of questions, and I personally am not in favour of this kind of development, that we should go into this kind of heart with a great deal of involvement. But precisely because there is this really big debate about really big issues that have a significant impact on Finland and on Parliament's budgetary power, all of this, I think it is very justified that, in this Chamber too, we should be able to address both the issue of Greece and the situation of the European Economic Union as a whole and these plans for the future, as far as Europe is concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u132	Mr President! It is very difficult to talk about this euro pig and this matter of Greece here. That is why I believe it is necessary to hold this debate in this context of the Bank of Finland. I would venture to hope that the representatives of the government parties will also be present in order to have an idea of what each one is doing here and whose wallet will be used in these arrangements. This issue of debt relief is essentially linked to this issue of solidarity. Now that the government has created such a concept that responsibilities do not increase, that concept should be opened up to what it means. The Government has given it a very special interpretation that it means that, within the ESM, any liability for which we are in fact responsible can be assumed, but as long as no more money is sent to the ESM, the interpretation is that Finland's responsibilities will not increase. In my opinion, this is an incomprehensible interpretation of Finland's responsibilities. Every risk finance that the ESM is going to involve actually increases our responsibilities, quite understandably, because it will have our money and our commitments to pay in the future. It cannot be said, therefore, that if the entire pot put into the ESM, which is worth tens of billions of Finnish commitments, is used, then Finland's responsibilities would not increase. Of course they breed. If the ESM clears its own capital, puts all its money into it and takes all the credit we have promised to use the guarantees at maximum, then of course our responsibilities will increase. This is therefore a highly artificial and misleading explanation which is now being used, which has been re-introduced in the context of this current debate, which is currently under way in the Eurogroup, that Finland's responsibilities will not increase even if the ESM sends billions of additional funding to Greece. Every money that goes to Greece causes Finland's responsibilities to increase de facto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u133	Mr President! I too have very often come across this debate when it is said that no, no, the responsibilities do not increase, the risks increase but not the responsibilities. I fully agree with the previous speech that it is precisely this strange interpretation that responsibilities do not increase. In fact, I wanted to say in this speech that my view is reinforced by Timo Soin's statement last summer, when he considered this issue when the third package of aid began to be built. In the summer, Minister Soini himself said in the Evening-Sanos when he talked about this arrangement, which later came about — then it seemed that a partial Brexit or a temporary Brexit of this kind would be possible — and he interpreted that, in the case of this third aid package, the sums in general are a clear increase in responsibility, and no punctuation of words would get rid of it. He himself said this. Well, when it took a while and there was no Brexit or anything else, but Finland went along with it, then suddenly this interpretation changed so that those responsibilities did not increase, that the risks only slightly increase. That's just what I'm talking about. It is precisely because of all this, because it is quite confusing for many citizens, I am sure, to have this debate, that it would be important to have it in this arena, and that is why we are also calling for representatives of the factions of government to be here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u134	Mr President! With regard to these risks, I would like to open up one more term for these debt reliefs. I trust that there will be no debt capital solution. Not only would it be contrary to the EU Treaty and previous treaties, but it would also create a very serious moral hazard problem for the whole of this Eurosystem. If such information and perception spreads that the euro countries are taking care of each other's debts, that means that investors who give money do not take into account the risk of different economies in different countries for each country and which should explain this level of interest that is required of the state so that they receive money. But I'm counting on it to be shut down. But then I assume that there will be a debate here about extending credit periods and a reduction in interest rates. I just want to tell you what that means. In its own calculations, the IMF assumes that the Greek average interest rate will be 6%. Now, if we make a ceiling of 1%, that means that the euro countries, through the ESM, will take over the interest costs of 5% of Greece's lending. 5% of the good 220 billion represents around 13 billion, which would be passed on to the euro countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u137	Mr President! In this point of order, when discussing the various funds that the European Union gives to various countries in crisis, when Mr Heinäluoma and Mr Viitanen also longed for a statement from the government parties, I am now doing it with my limited powers and weak senses, but I will try my best. Mr President! First of all, if you want to understand this whole thing, you have to remember history. When Finland adopted the euro — a decision was taken at the end of 2001 — the beginning of 2002 then came — it was then warned, specifically warned, of this situation, where we are now. I remember that, although I was not a Member of Parliament at the time: I followed it very actively through the various media. At the time, Prime Minister Lipponen drove it like a snake into a gun, and with the mere communication procedure it went, which, in my opinion, was completely incomprehensible, that such a huge thing would be taken by a simple communication and then there would be a vote of confidence. That's when we didn't do our homework, ladies and gentlemen. I remember then that many of the representatives of economic policy warned that this would involve an extremely difficult run-off when countries were introduced into the same monetary system, which simply lack creditworthiness and are already in the waste class at the start. After all, this created the situation in which the five-star creditworthiness of these worst, most economically disadvantaged countries was created. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: you will not escape this, even if you scream directly at any decision taken at that time. That's just the way it is. When given a five-star credit rating, the sleazy, irresponsible borrower will, of course, take advantage of it. Well, that's what's happened. Here we are. Wiseness about whether the government has given too much or too little is 15 years too old. However, the fact is that the European Union has given 1.4 billion capital to the European financial stability system, and that is lost money, which we will probably never get back. And then, do there exist any Greek guarantees? You can cross them. It is a revenue-sharing agreement whose validity depends on whether there are any returns. Every reasonable person in Finland today understands that there are no and will not be any returns. After all, the Greek debt arrangement will one day have to be made. That is what Christine Lagarde, Director-General of the IMF of the International Monetary Fund, has already proposed. I'm sure it would have been done by now, but here's a couple of stumps in the casserole, as you all know. In the autumn there will be German elections, and this is not the subject of so-called favourable debate for the stability of the European economy at this stage, but the garbage has been swept under the carpet while Germany has the elections — we will have this financial system, as it were, in peace, so that interest rates do not go up, because it would be the worst poison in this situation. And then: the European Central Bank buys junk loans and various securities on the market today that have no value — 80 billion per month spent on it. When, as I recall, until the end of 2018, every reasonable person is able to understand that there is some kind of crap that no one knows about the guarantees. And perhaps the best example, Mr President, is that the situation has really gotten out of hand, that the largest bank in Germany and the largest bank in Europe had fallen less than a year ago in the autumn. It was only saved by the German Federal Government’s promise under the counter that the balance sheet remained on the surface. It is pointless for us here to accuse each other of having a government programme that has been done well or badly. At the time, a cardinal egg was made when these countries were allowed to enter the system, which had no chance of doing so. It's exactly the same as having a meal every morning at the Room for Breakfast: there's not enough money for that for a very long time, it just needs to be acknowledged. But at the time, we were not even allowed to discuss this matter, and it felt like we had to get the horn out of it. Well, here we are, with your pants down. To blame others in this situation, I think it's quite cheap populism. I hope that you will not, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, be guilty of this, because in this government’s programme — as you have certainly read carefully in the Government Programme — this government does not add to Finland’s commitments anywhere. When there is still little unused capital in the European stability system — I do not remember the exact amount, these were presented in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there is a note in the study with the exact amounts — whether it will be used now and not in a month's time or in a year's time, I do not know. I don't think anyone knows that. But when it is wise to be given something more during this government, that is not true. It's already been paid for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u140	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Hosko for taking this floor and trying to clarify the position which apparently exists at least in the centre of this matter. However, this is not a history report, and this is not a court or an indictment, but what decisions are being taken at the moment and what their impact will be on Finland's state finances and the risks we face, and also the burden on taxpayers. As far as history is concerned, I would just like to say briefly that, as far as I remember correctly, the Centre accepted Greece's entry into the euro. This is worth checking out, because I am not entirely sure, but it is quite relevant in relation to Mr Hoskosen's work, so that perhaps we will look at what Mr Pekkarinen said then in the great committee and in the great Chamber, because he was already an influential person.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u143	Mr President! This was not the time to make the history reviews, but when Mr Hoskone started with that history, I think that I did not really do the homework of the then government when it first started supporting Greece as it was going. So it was precisely then that this bilateral loan was given, with no collateral at all, and I would still remember Matti Vanhanen saying that this is just a good business — this is a good business and so on. Well, then it happened that the elections intervened and the SDP entered the government, and our condition was that in the future all lending needs those guarantees. We got it through, and it was also fought by Minister Urplainen there in the European Union. There is, however, a billion dollars in the account to secure Finland’s claims in that respect if it were to be harmed. The second thing we required all along is that there must be an investor's responsibility. It is a debate that is taking place today, for example, when it comes to the common protection of banks' deposits and other things that investor responsibility must be. This investor's responsibility was then included in our demand, and now, for example, the ESM has these principles of priority and others, in which case the mechanism itself was built to be safe in our time. But when we come to this interpretation of Mr Hoskosen — I will not repeat what we discussed earlier — that is the question of interpretation now, when it is said that responsibilities do not increase when the money is spent. In my opinion, Mr Heinäluoma, in his previous speech, in a reasonably detailed and time-descriptive way, has already described that, indeed, those responsibilities will increase if more and more of these mechanisms are applied.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u144	Mr President! This government is not going further into the mechanisms. But the argument that there are guarantees: Every reasonable person knows that when this Deutsche Bank was about to go down in Germany about a year ago... If I remember correctly, it was less than a year ago in the autumn, when there was no faith in Deutsche Bank's bonds and the Federal Republic of Germany had to give more money there. At that moment, a few financial experts — I am not part of them — examined this issue and found that Deutsche Bank had risks in various derivatives with a total total of more than EUR 40000 billion — over EUR 40000 billion. Yes, the common sense of a common country boy, as the undersigned, says clearly already — if we wise up here, whether there is a guarantee or a profit-sharing agreement — that is, every reasonable person knows that when one bank has such huge bonds, whose value is then known only when those papers have come to their destination, that their value is actually calculated, then these few hundred million guarantees can wipe the bottoms of the trash basket, they are misleading people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u149	Mr President! This debate, of course, goes a long way from this actual issue, that is, from the report of the Parliament's banking council, but since this debate on Greece is of course very interesting and, in that respect, it will, of course, affect the Bank of Finland, as well as our national economy, let this debate be allowed. But we must now support Mr Hosko in that the situation is such that, if we were not in the euro area, we would not actually have to go through this debate. But when we are there, we will, of course, try to get things done as well as possible, that the euro area will do well and that the Finnish economy will succeed as part of it. In fact, the situation is similar to that of the ESM. And if we think that interest rates are very low for Finland's guarantees, Finland's liabilities, there is no reason for them to grow, because there is no use of that capital. The Finnish Government's programme is very clear and clear in that we do not accept any increase in guarantees either. Of course, it must be borne in mind that it is quite true that my own party has certainly also assumed political responsibility for having been involved in these Euro-Conferences in Greece and for trying to support those countries that are in difficulty. We have also taken on a very high level of political responsibility. However, it seems good that Greece, for example, with regard to its first loan package, may even be able to pay back money early, and at least it will have a direct one-off effect on our economy as well. It is very good that Greece is finally getting on its feet, even though the situation is very difficult. Its economic growth actually exceeds our economic growth, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u150	Mr President! I do not think that this is the starting point for the history writing. If that is what we want to do, then we can always go to that decision by the Esko Aho Government to bring Finland into the European Union, and the agreements of the Union have made a commitment that if you meet the conditions, then the Eurosystem will come. This can be taken a long way. But in any case, this decision to export Finland to the European Union was a decisive step. And if it was wrong, then we'll all be Finns. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u151	Mr President! Yes, the opposition here sounds more like Finns than the Finns themselves here a few years ago. Here we advise on how to support and ask questions about Greek loans, so that it sounds very much like the ministers' speech at that stage of the Oppossion, the Finns of Finland. There has been talk here of the importance of investor responsibility, and then I listened to this debate on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy when we talked about the responsibilities of investment advisers. These are important things, of course. But if even these things are without any other hypocrisy, if we all bear responsibility, whether there is an investor or counsel, then who will carry the risk? In fact, it is that one who takes out a loan carries the risk, the counselors advise. That responsibility is a line drawn in water. This is where the investment advisor's responsibility came from. No bank manager says that now that I'm giving you advice about this, this is a sure investment, this is the profit and this. In connection with the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it called for such responsibilities. No one's gonna put a name on a paper like that. That this is a bit of such piety this conversation, what has been going on here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u152	Mr President! It seems strange and difficult to pay the debts of other EU countries at all. I have to be honest with you that this is the case. We went to the euro without a referendum. I think it was a mistake, a referendum should have been held on it — I think the Social Democrats have not been in favour of it. The Social Democrats have been one party that has taken us into the euro. And in general, when it comes to support packages, you should not be so hypocritical about that, you have also been supportive. Now Minister Soini has been brought up here and made a scapegoat of him, but we all know that Soini and his group have always been against the support packages and fought very hard for Finland not to be caught up in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u155	Mr President! For Finland, the behaviour of the Bank of Finland at the European Central Bank is, of course, crucial. I have every confidence in the way that Erkki Liikanen, the Director-General of Finland, goes there to pursue Finland's cause. I have no doubt about that. The Committee on Economic Affairs has often visited the Bank of Finland. The picture we have received there has always been accurate, clear and unambiguous; there is no water between it. In this context, I would like to express my thanks to Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland. He's done his job well. There's no room for reproach. As far as this no bail-out rule, raised by Mr Heinäluoma, is concerned, it has indeed promised and committed itself to not paying interest and debts in other countries. Well, now it is a rather far-reaching hypocrisy, after the creation of the European Financial Stability Facility and then the creation of the European Stability Mechanism. These were created only for the purpose of circumventing the Treaty rule. When you couldn't pay directly, you had to do this sort of detour, as we know. It wasn't an accident. It was a conscious, precise act that circumvented this rule in the Treaty of the European Union that no one else's debts should be paid. We are now even deeper in this swamp: European banks are in the condition they are. Perhaps one thing is also illustrated by the fact that when the so-called stress tests were carried out — about ten of them, as I recall, go pretty close — almost all tests always found that the banks were in good shape, even Deutsche Bank, which was on its stomach a year ago, and that there were huge risks. Why weren't they exposed during the stress tests? Well, of course not when the market was exposed to what a terrible situation banks' own capital is in. If it had been announced, it would have already caused a huge panic in the interest rate market. All over the world's money markets, everything depends on whether banks trust each other to believe that banks will survive their commitments. Therefore, the role of the Bank of Finland in this situation is important that the Bank of Finland supervises the interests of Finns there, in the capacity of Erkki Liikanen, at various events, so that we can keep this money market stable and interest rates quite low. The fact that we have had to do crazy tricks here and there is much to do is because there has been no backbone by the euro to say who will be there and who will not be there. Everyone knows that when a non-creditworthy company is included in a company cluster, that uncredited company can take the whole big company to its knees. That's right. When balance sheets go negative and equity loses, everyone knows what happens. That is why it is very good that this debate, which has now taken place with regard to the Bank of Finland, is taking place, and when Mr Heinäluoma said that it is not worth looking at history, it is precisely history that needs to be seen why we are in this situation. I remember the conversations I saw on television and read about Helsingin Sanomat. It left me with the wording that I still remember, if God gives me days of life, even 20 years from now, that "this is a serious draining defect". That is what we, Mr Heinäluoma, are paying for, and that is what we are talking about. For whose fault it is, all I can say is that when the euro was driven to Finland like a snake in a gun, then it had to be obtained with a simple vote of confidence in the information procedure, that was what it was all about. This is a historical fact that can be checked in parliamentary minutes. I don't blame anyone for it, but I'm paying the bill right now, and I'm just saying that once you've gone to the game, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u156	Mr President! As you can see from the Minutes, I did not say that history should not be discussed and should not be considered. Of course we can and should talk about it, but the question here is what decisions are being taken here and now. And when Mrs Hoskonen made her strong speech, I could not help but notice that she did not come to the decision that Minister Orpo was perhaps taking in Brussels to decide whether Finland and the other euro countries are going to assume responsibility for the debt-management costs of Greece. This, Mr Hoskonen, is something you should have the courage to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u161	Mr President! Finally, let it be said that, of course, the debts of others are not being paid. It's obvious. It's included in the government program, too. Yes, we all need to have that much internal literacy that when we look at those papers, what is a government program, we will not accept any more responsibilities. It's obvious. When Christine Lagarde, the President of the IMF, has proposed a cut in Greek loans, I cannot stop such a powerful woman either. If he talks, he talks, and that's it. However, it is a serious matter when the President of the International Monetary Fund speaks in this way. Of course, Finland's position is that we take care of our own business and do not take on any additional responsibilities. Where's the world going? Who knows what's gonna happen in a year? It is not even predicted by weak forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u162	We will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u163	Mr President! Now it turns out that Mr Hoskonen still did not reply. Although you may have imagined your answer to Mr Heinäluoma's question, you certainly do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u168	Mr President! The debate is still a long way from the report of the Banking Council, but when this happens, I thought to say that it is not the inevitable consequence of EU membership that it is part of the euro area. The Western neighbour, Sweden, has chosen in another way, and I do not think that Sweden will, in the near future, probably never, even necessarily join the euro area, so there can be another way to be a member of the EU. But when we are in the euro area, of course, it is our national task to try to deal with things as well and responsibly as possible. The fact that Greece is slowly getting on its feet may indicate that everything that is, for example, in the third loan package in the worst scenario for Greece is not going to be necessary. Greece will be able to start the repayment of the loan at an earlier stage, which is why it is so important that now, for example, the Minister of Finance is also negotiating on this issue once again, that the line remains strict and that: Greece will be able to survive and will also start paying us back our share of the guarantees that we have given it. Then, at least in my own speech, I have already said twice that Finland's responsibilities do not increase. Of course, it may be that I do not understand it well enough, but in my opinion, even though the opposition has intimidated the Finns, for example, for interest rates, it has been shown that the responsibilities of the Finnish state will not increase, not through anything. That is our negotiating line, and the Minister has received the mandate of a large committee, and if that mandate has been exceeded, then the will of Parliament has not been carried out. I do not know how much more clearly this matter could be said than that of the Finnish State
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u169	Mr President! Of course, when you look at the material that once came to Parliament when Esko Aho's government proposed this accession to the European Union, it is clear from the material that the EU Treaties were based on the fact that those countries which fulfil the conditions of economic and monetary union would once become members. Then it is one thing that Denmark had been given known exceptions, that it did not have to meet these other conditions, and Britain had the same situation. Then there may be the practical aspect that I believe no one will be forced to do so. Even if you fulfil the conditions for membership, I do not believe that you will be forced into membership, and I hope that you will not. But I'm going back to today. This is of great importance in that this decision, which is currently under discussion in the Eurogroup in Brussels, has a major impact on whether or not this principle of the Treaty is maintained that Member States are not going to pay each other's debts. It will then have an impact on the way in which different countries receive credit from the market. If such a decision is made to pay each other's debts, for example, interest on each other's debts, then that then means from the creditor's point of view that the collective risk is assessed throughout the euro area, no longer the household management of each Member State and its ability to cope with its debts. This is therefore a big principle which is currently under test in Brussels, and that is why we need to talk about this and it will have an impact on the Eurosystem as a whole, including this Bank of Finland. And now the answer that is still needed is still there. When you say that responsibilities are not increased,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u172	Mr President! Quite a laundry has been going on here for a while now, after a few hours of talking about Greece under the heading "The Report of the Bank Council of the Economy 2016. You've put the money there, you've given the money there. You have given it the power of decision and you have deceived all these guarantees, whatever they are, under the cover. I think this laundry should be done right now. You asked me what the position was. The Government Programme states that Finland’s responsibilities do not increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u175	Mr President! That's what I have to say now. I'm confused. Apparently, then, there will be no answer. There won't be an answer. Mr Heinäluoma suggested that you accept that, through certain reliefs in Greek interest rates, the Finnish taxpayer will jointly pay these debts. Do you accept what might be on the table at the moment? So, apparently, even if I pull the glamours, there doesn't seem to be an answer today from this gym. However, there are representatives of two groups of governments here and a topical issue is taking place today, at the moment. Now I would have liked it, I would have liked it to have been opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u176	Madam President! I think that this issue has always been clear, should not have gone to these guarantees at all, because it is clear that when a player takes a risk on the stock market or on any financial market, he who takes the risk will take the risk. It is not the risk-taker who, if his business succeeds and wins, distributes those profits on the streets to people and then, of course, is entitled to demand from people that his losses should be paid for the taxpayers' purse. The agreement works both ways: no profits are distributed and no losses are paid. Let everyone who goes to the investment market suffer his own defeat, and if there is profit, be happy, but let him not be a taxpayer. This is the principle. My position on this issue has been clear all along, throughout my political history, that these should not be paid at all. It's gonna cost you who's going to risk it, that's it. As Mr Jalonen said well just now, the fact that Finland's responsibilities are not being increased should now be clear as a bright spring day. Black doesn't turn white by saying 28 times that it's something else. The truth is the truth, and that's the onion. There will be no more responsibilities, and that will be cool. If the world falls from our background, then we will not have the weak forces to stop it, and I do not believe that the enormous will of Mr Pia Viitanen and the broad shoulders of Mr Heinäluoma will do anything about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u177	Mr President! Even the shoulders here are beginning to seem rather narrow, when, after two hours of discussion, Mr Hoskonen or other representatives of the centre do not answer the question as to whether the Centre accepts the transfer of Greek interest costs through the ESM to the Finnish taxpayer. That's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u180	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 12/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u181	Mr President! There is now a second report at the hearing, and this is the report of Yle's Board of Directors to Parliament on the company's activities in 2016. This was dealt with in a typical way. This has been a bit of turbulence in Yle’s affairs, so that we may have focused more on those things than we normally do. But the report from Yle’s Board of Directors shows that YLE is doing its job quite well in itself, because one of the indicators is that Yle reaches 70 per cent of Finns by day and 93 per cent by week and does it on the Internet and on TV, cable and many technologies. This particular position of Mr Yle was then addressed to some extent, that is to say, the desire for this universal service obligation to be met. This has dealt with the fact that it has been managed with tax revenue, and a little bit of what that tax revenue will then get, among other things, that special groups will receive their own services, and then just prepare for exceptional circumstances and warn people about such exceptional circumstances. Traditionally, the committee has also raised regional activities and many other issues, but, as I said, this time in this debate there have been a lot of things like this about independence, and that is where we concentrated a little more on here. In general, Yle is an independent operator, it is very important. On the other hand, Yle maintains and promotes democracy and freedom of speech, and it is another such big role. In the midst of all this debate, we have wanted to emphasise that when Yle finally started to act to strengthen these independences and so on, it could have brought out these things more clearly, what has been done there, the practical patterns and so on. But when this programme as such does not have the power, influence or committee or board of directors, it is precisely this journalistic independence of the content of the programme that is an integral part of this activity. Then it also states that such an individual journalist may of course exercise his freedom of speech, but if he is working, he has his own supervisor there and yet then the editor is responsible for that line, and then there must be control there, its overall quality of observation and so on. So this side was also brought up. In principle it was also raised that Yle's task of controlling for example this hall or society's other actors is quite remarkable. It is important to highlight these shortcomings in the debate, but it must also be fair to all actors and independent of any direction. In other words, our debate, what was, was very much a debate on this independence. This led to the repetition of previous positions which have always been raised — not just because of this situation, but because of earlier ones. There is then a proposal for a position at the end: "The Board of Directors requires that the Board of Directors monitor and promote the independence, impartiality and reliability of Yleisradio Oy in the future." So we wanted to bring it up with a sentence like this. But also a small criticism of the word, the timetable: this kind of report must be given a little more quickly to Parliament, in order to then be able to handle this well in committee through all the points of view. I would also like to say that this report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u182	Madam President! I would like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications for their good work. Broadcasting is a very important institution for all of us in the field of pluralistic information, and it is good that its corporate governance is carried out under the authority of Parliament. It is important that governments do not start to wreak havoc on the affairs of the Broadcasting Company, and this regardless of the colour or composition of the government in question. This report from the committee is reasonably balanced and I also very much welcome this proposal from the Committee on the Independence of Broadcasting. That clearly gives the Governing Board instructions on how the whole Parliament expects the YLE to be developed in order to ensure its reliability, impartiality and independence. I believe that this also responds to the concerns of some researchers and the sector over the last few months, and it is extremely important, as Mr Jalonen said, that this is a unanimous position in Parliament. I therefore hope that further progress will be made in this direction. The Government of YLE is doing its own work to develop the functions of YLE for the very purpose of strengthening journalistic independence and thus maintaining public confidence in YLE. At the same time, I hope that this gluttony in Yle's financial affairs could also end and that we, as responsible decision-makers, will ensure the long-term functioning of Yle's funding and will not maintain this constant uncertainty in the field of general finance by means of various financial laxities, so this will require action even after this report has been discussed here with great consensus, and here I am placing my expectations on the whole political field, including those in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u183	Mr President! I, too, would like to say that the work of the committee has been excellent in this regard and it is, of course, good that we have been able to move here unanimously too. All in all, it is certainly not a bad thing at this time that this report places a very strong emphasis on this independence, and that it is then recorded separately. Last time we discussed Yle in another context a few weeks back, and also then we talked a lot about this principle of parliamentaryism, and I think it is very important that it should be maintained now and in the future, despite some of the stumbling blocks that this government has had from time to time. Nevertheless, it can never be overemphasized in these debates that parliamentarianism must exist when Yle's affairs are decided. However, to return to this independence, it also requires, of course, that there is a certain understanding of this funding and its stability now and in the future, that it does not happen by accident that it might occur to me that, at any time, how does the government look at Yle's journalism, then these financial solutions will also be made. Of course, that must not be the case. It is a recognised principle here, and this representative, Mr Satosen's Yle-team, in which Mr Heinäluoma was also represented, did an extremely important historical act, which, as it were, secured the continuation of its funding for the future. But what is still open and what I think it would be important for Parliament to adopt shortly is, of course, the funding for 2019, so that we can also reach a common view that Yle's resources are secured — that Yle's ability to act as a reliable, independent, high-quality public service company is safeguarded. President! In just the same breath, it could be said that overall media pluralism, the quality of the media as a whole, is very important. It is a Finnish asset, and we must be able to safeguard it in these big, big challenges that the media world in general faces today, and that is why I think it is important not only that we guarantee stable development for the Finnish Broadcasting Company, but also that we take care of our commercial media, both the press and the electronics, and in this respect I hope for wise lines in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u184	Madam President! Indeed, the report of the Board of Directors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company for 2016 is under discussion. I myself, as a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, would like to raise a few points about this committee's text. Indeed, the Committee wanted to pay particular attention to independence here, and that is an important starting point for all of us to keep the YLE independent. The committee also wanted to emphasise here the content of the programme and the journalistic decision-making that they are independent of external control. On that basis, individual editorial measures, such as those, can be better assessed. The task of independent and impartial media is, of course, to challenge all other actors in the longer term to ensure that they are fair and not overly influenced by external control. This is a good observation in this committee's text. The report of the Board of Directors for 2016 clearly shows that YLE is considered to be of social importance. This was, in my view, an important point to raise, because there is a broad consensus in this House, and especially in this Chamber, on the importance to us of the overall public radio. The committee also considers it important that in future the reports should be reported in such a way that impartiality, independence and reliability, these issues are raised more and more in future. Then there are these conditions for the universal service obligation, from which there was a desire to raise social security reservations and information to the public authorities in this text. I consider this to be a very important comment from the committee, as well as the regional deliveries that have already been made here — and the Committee's proposal for a position on the whole. It is wonderful that this has been raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u185	Mr President! When this issue of the universal radio is unanimous in this, we should really be pleased about it. I will take this opportunity to support the principles set out by Mr Viitane. Indeed, the field of communication is diverse, and while I have had the courage to speak out in favour of the operating conditions of YLE, I have always thought that this field of communication is needed as a whole and that it includes commercial television, its news activities, as well as the printed media and today also this evolving electronic side. This leads me to the conclusion that, in order to ensure this pluralistic, good, high-quality, high-quality information, we must be prepared to take concrete decisions, and these decisions include, for example, this widely sought-after reduction in the digital value added tax in the sector, i.e. the VAT on digital subscriptions would be the same as that on printed magazines. This is of great importance, not least for the future of provincial newspapers. This digital side is the future, it is evolving, but at the moment it is rather brutally treated in terms of taxation, and I therefore hope that we will get a proposal as soon as possible to implement this digital alve discount. At the same time, I note that the commercial television news is at a very difficult stage, and I dare to hope that these proposals from the Harkimo Group can be implemented in this regard. I am disappointed that, although the debate was opened, this amount of EUR 1 million in the additional budget is, of course, very modest in relation to the results and proposals of this in-depth study, which is aimed solely at the news and topical activities on the commercial side and does not allow for the wider development that the working group has put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u186	Mr President! In fact, I myself would have continued on this very subject, namely that this whole set of good conditions in the media field is very important, and that is why I would actually have emphasised exactly what Mr Heinäluoma has said in concrete terms. They're really easy to find, these two. Digialvi is a long-term wish, and now that the conditions are also available through the Union and that it is possible to move forward at long last, I think it is very important for the government to bring forward proposals on this point soon. As has been said, it is very much helping, among other things, our press field, which has been facing many challenges at the moment. Similarly, I took note of this very same point regarding Parliament's amending budget — which, by the way, before Parliament's summer holidays comes to this Chamber for discussion and decision — that the support for commercial news is now being slightly opened up, with a budget of EUR 1 million being proposed. This working group spoke of 8 million, and slightly expanded, that it would involve not only support for commercial news and current activities, but also certain other elements and broader elements that make extensive use of the media field. That is why I am very surprised that, when this important head opening is done, a catch will be taken from the group's proposal, so then, in order for it to be successful, the catch should be complete. The EUR 8 million that the working group has put forward must have been very carefully thought out and met the challenge of time. That is 8 million proposals for three years, and that is why this 1 million is very modest here. I therefore hope, perhaps a little more in the debate of the coming days, that the government parties will be able to consider this and take a booth, so that we can ensure the conditions for a broad and high-quality media in the future in a comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u187	Madam President! Do I now interpret the opposition as being prepared to support this kind of EUR 8 million in commercial media news? And then what would be the independence of commercial media news from your point of view if we gave EUR 8 million in public support?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u188	Mr President! This matter was dealt with in the Parliamentary Yle Group, in which I myself was allowed to be involved — and Mrs Elomaa was also in this Yle Group. When we went through the financial situation of Yle and the importance of Yle, we had to find that there was a genuine painful situation on this commercial side, on the one hand, in connection with this difficult structural change, but also in relation to this low-level economic cycle, which has been going on for almost ten years. On this basis, there was great concern that the news and topical activities of commercial television will face such difficult issues that they pose a risk to the existence of journalism at all. That is why the Yle Group proposed that the Ministry of Transport and Communications set up a working group which would look at the conditions for action in this area and make the necessary proposals. Minister Berner of this working group kindly set it up, and then Mr Harkimo drew it, and I was allowed to be part of it myself. After a very careful effort, this working group proposed such a temporary support mechanism which would help to overcome this most difficult stage and which would be linked to such a general service obligation, which would, among other things, result in a cover-up obligation for commercial broadcasts in rural areas in the north, and then also to subtitling obligations and certain other channel obligations. It was not 8 million for commercial television news and current activities, but roughly 4 million for this and 4 million for a general development project that would serve a wide media field. It is now worth saying that these problems are not just typical in Finland; they are the same in Sweden and Norway. Norway has recently decided to mobilise not a million or 4 million or 8 million, but tens of millions of aid for commercial television, precisely because of the fact that it is possible to secure pluralistic information. In Sweden, this aid has been introduced in the past. So this problem is real, and if we want to ensure that we have high-quality, good journalism, it requires money, but it must not be interfered in its contents — it is not our job to impose substantive requirements, not on the Yleisradio side, nor here on the commercial side. I believe that the debate which has now taken place in connection with Mrs Yle has created more faith that it is understood that this
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u189	Mr President! This was a good review of this history for this working group, that is to say, Minister Berner actually set up a working group, and I would see already, when this has been very carefully done, carefully considered and explained and then given this kind of solution, which then temporarily now makes the situation easier, that it would be quite wise for the government parties to implement this whole so that it can genuinely work. That is why I find the amount of money which is currently in the proposal to be unfortunate and I really would like to see the proposal made by the working group set up by Mr Berner being followed up in this respect overall. After all, we have been facing a challenge in the commercial media situation for a long time. I must admit that mistakes are being made and I am sure that it was a mistake at the time to make this VAT decision for the press. It came at a bad time and weakened the scope for action in this area. This might not have been the case at the time. In any case, this was done at the time, mainly for fiscal reasons. Well, after that, during that last period, there was a newspaper advisory board whose work was followed up by such a liquidator — I was then the Minister of Communication — Thomas Harpf, to see how the media and the press could be improved as a result of this working group work. Mr Harpf made some specific proposals. Among other things, it talked about digital alms, and it also stated that, if possible, this VAT solution for the press should still be looked at, to return to it. As a result of this work, this innovation support was followed in concrete terms during the last period. It was budgeted for 30 million at the time, and it gave a certain impetus to the fact that, in these big times of transition, we could make different decisions on how to improve the overall operating conditions of the media. And now, of course, it would be timely not only for this work of the Harkimino Group but also for that digital alvi, because now there are certain conditions for it. When you do these particular types of action plus then you secure Yle's stable funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u190	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-15-ps-70.u191	Mr President! This is a bill for the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. This bill has been taken by Emma Kari, and I myself have signed it and I support it. A bill on tropical hunting is an excellent proposal for the future of endangered animals. Killing animals for fun and sport is pointless and cruel. In addition, many of the creatures that are the object of such gunmen’s hobby represent an endangered species. Needless to say, animal species are not suitable for extinction because of the hobby activities of some people. Above all, this ethically questionable activity is causing the prey pain and suffering. Who'd like to run for their lives in a savanna to escape bullets fired from the stage of an SUV? Trofee hunting is often hunting in the restricted area of foreign tourists. In addition, the prey has been reared in captivity. The catch is therefore certain compared with the so-called fairer, free hunting. This type of cage hunt is of a particularly cruel nature. There is a lot of questionable business around the activities, and the legislation of the countries where hunting takes place is often referred to. As long as there's a demand for this kind of business, there's a supply. Therefore, trofee hunting should be restricted step by step. We need to put a stop to the chartering and trade of prize horns and others. Mr President! In its bill, Mr Kari proposes a ban on the importation, export, sale and exchange of protected animal and plant species, an individual, a part or a derivative, and on offering for sale or exchange. This ban would also apply to game trophies, which can be marketed and transported across borders under the current permit of the Centre for Life, Transport and the Environment. A bill would be a good step to reduce tropical hunting. — — — — Thank you.
