ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u1	The only discussion will be on the 3rd item in the order of business, the Government's communication on the change in the parliamentary basis of the Government. The debate on the communication ended at the plenary session on 19 June 2017. In the debate, Antti Lindtman Touko Aalto, supported by Laura Huhtasaari Olli Immonen, has put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u2	First, we will vote against Antti Lindtman's proposal and finally on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Future, to which the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. Please note that the referral debate will take place until 4.30 p.m. The debate will continue if necessary after the other items in the order of business have been discussed, but if the debate ends before 4.30 p.m., the next item will be the agenda, i.e. 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u4	Madam President! Thank you for your confidence in Parliament. Now we need to look to the future and to the future. Work plays a key role in ensuring the social, human and economic sustainability of society. Now the work is changing. High employment rates are a prerequisite for well-being. That is why the work is also at the heart of government policy. The government has made every effort to lower the thresholds for employment. Work and hard work have been an equal path to prosperity for all over the past 100 years. We've got to hold on to this. Every government will report on the future. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u7	Let us now turn to the round of
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's foresight report before us identifies the situation in place: the content of the work, practices, forms and even the income generated by the work is fragmented and changing. In the future, more and more people will earn their living with completely new jobs. Many may be completely out of work, even consciously. The limits of work, unemployment, entrepreneurship, retirement, study are blurred. The change challenges the legislative and social system from social security to taxation. The report states that this includes both opportunities and challenges. It is up to us as legislators to create a framework for safe change. Mr President! Work is not disappearing, even though jobs change shape and content. Productivity-enhancing solutions have the world's side feared to take jobs — ever since the weaving machine Kehruu-Jenny, not to mention the mantros of digitalisation, robotization, artificial intelligence or platform economy in our day. One of the most favorite types of opposition is to paint horror images of, among other things, the flexibility of work. Both experiences and studies prove the exact opposite: jointly agreed local solutions increase employee empowerment, responsibility and satisfaction and thus productivity. Productivity indicators also change, the purpose of doing is more than the sum of their parts, and not all results may always be measured by the GDP indicator. The fact that productivity-enhancing solutions usually create meaningful work is also known in the Parliamentary Committee on the Future. For many, what you do becomes more essential than where you stand or where you work. The preservation of structures is no longer essential, but a bold and secure change is. We downtown tickets for this. Mr President! I believe that the most humane challenge is to accept that, as a result of the transitions, livelihoods will also become a puzzle. We move from control of work and command to autonomous self-control, self-developers and internal entrepreneurs. Many hobbies can also become a business activity, such as bloggers or tourism innovation companies that left their backpacks. By the way, my own cousin is a travel nomad. The unprejudiced development of our own self is already familiar to us in the direction of our mentor Santeri Alkio: we have a duty to develop ourselves in such a way that we are also able to bear responsibility for ourselves and for solidarity with those who need our help. Our world-class school system must also be sufficiently innovative to enable development to take place. Interaction skills, internationality, co-operation and independent thinking are key words. Mr President! The change in work requires a reform of social security and also taxation. It is necessary to determine how the financing of the welfare society will be ensured and what kind of social security will be available to those who need help. Social security should therefore be an activating trampoline rather than a passive safety net. This also applies to unemployment benefit. Juha Sipilä's Government has launched a basic income experiment, among other things. The basic income experiment can only be the first step towards what we need in the future's working life. More important than taking a step is taking its first step. It is clear that more solutions of this kind need to be sought. By the way, the Sipilä Government also challenges us all to new ideas, such as a pilot cultural tip project. ExperimentalFinnish.fijakilunpaikka.fi-netipagesincludesahansavoinjakaideas, her expertise and We would also like to call on the next governments to have such open-mindedness. Everyone must be given the opportunity to find their own way of living and acting in such a way that decent income is guaranteed, even if it is from more than one source. Mr President! We will not be able to cope with changes in working life by moving old blocks into a new order, but now it is time to create new blocks in legislation. I believe that with a whole new way of thinking we can also, in our own time, achieve a great goal of leaving the country to the next generation in even better shape than we received it ourselves. If we try to prevent change, we cause insecurity when new policies try to fit into a narrow framework of rules. Allow future generations to develop working methods according to their own time. Let us now, as legislators, be brave enough to make a safe change happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u9	Mr President! The Government's foresight report challenges us to consider how we Finns will cope in the coming decades in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution. Digitalisation, robotisation, continued reality and artificial intelligence will break down practices and structures considered to be permanent. The direction, speed and impact of change are in the shadow of the future. The only sure thing in the future is change. Mr President! For decades there have been fears of the end of work. In the papers, we read lists of professions that threaten to disappear in the near future. The report also states that the transformation of work is the biggest challenge facing Finland. Is the future really this dark, or would change be a new opportunity for us this time? The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party believes in the possibilities for the future. Technological developments improve our well-being and raise our standard of living. Although the importance of traditional work is changing, the old logic remains: without technological progress there will be no productivity growth and without productivity growth there will be no economic and well-being growth. On the reverse side of the coin is the uneven distribution of the fruits of development and the polarisation of the labour market, but blocking development is the wrong way to solve problems. We would face bigger problems if technical progress stopped. The solutions can be found in the reforms of taxation, the labour market, social security and education. Mr President! The good news of the report is that work is found to be primarily changing, not actually disappearing. There will be a change in occupations and jobs, but human work will continue to be in demand. However, we must jointly worry about those citizens and sectors that are hit hard by the transition. Even if technology goes beyond many traditional fields and tasks, it must not be allowed to run over an individual person. Society’s role is to provide Finnish people with tools for safe change. The rapid development of technology means that even the most up-to-date training will become obsolete more quickly in the future. That is why we need a system of education, the main task of which is to teach us how to learn and embrace new things. For this reason, vocational education and training institutions and universities must be able to provide additional training for workers on a work-based and knowledge-based basis. The reform of vocational education and training, led by Minister Grahn-Laasonen, and the reform of upper secondary school, are good examples of strengthening the skills needs of the future. Different changes in working life are best prepared by increasing flexibility. Fair local reconciliation, reform of family leave and social security that combines work and security more flexibly make it possible to adapt individually to changes. The overall reform of social security, which is now under way, is an essential means of preparing for change in advance, but it should be accompanied by the courage to consider the need for job-related and family-free reform. Mr President! We decision-makers have a big role to play in how Finland will cope with the change in work. We can be enablers or brakemen. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, the choice is clear: Finland must be kept at the heart of change. There's a lot of healing to be done in our run. We are struggling to keep pace with the development of new technologies and the sharing economy. For example, eight of the top ten unlisted companies in the world may find it illegal in Finland or, at the very least, very difficult to start their business. The ongoing project of the Committee on the Future of Europe's 100 radical technologies is therefore more than necessary so that we can make the necessary legislative changes in advance, enabling new innovations to emerge. The change in work has enormous potential. To harness it as a constructive force for society, Finland must remain an interesting investment and operating environment. The government has already abolished a number of standards and has taken care of our competitiveness. This work must continue. The key is agility, sound regulation, smooth authorisation procedures and competitive taxation. Perhaps the most important thing, Mr President, is to accept the fact that the world is changing around us, regardless of us. Are we denying change, or are we afraid to take on a new one? The election of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is a new grab.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u10	Mr President! It has often been said that the next 20 years can change the world more than the previous 200 years. The future therefore challenges our thinking, our working methods and the structures of our society in many ways. Are robots taking away our jobs, endangering people’s livelihoods, and is the financial base of the welfare society dwindling? These are key issues in the report. The Group of the Party of European Socialists considers it important that we have an active parliamentary debate on trends affecting the world. These discussions must also have a cross-party and cross-regime effect, and the policies must be reflected in the policies that have been taken. We need a strong spirit of cooperation here. Mr President! The main flaw in the report on the future relates to the fact that the first part deals mainly with the future through threats, partly because of the two stages of the report. The report prepares us more for unemployment, although the focus should now be on the creation of new jobs. The report gives more thought to how to secure a living without work, even though it should now be considered how to continue to earn a living from work. In addition to the threats that have been raised, the Socialist Group also needs positive and solution-oriented approaches. Automation and digitalisation do change the forms of work, but work does not disappear from the world. For example, the circular economy and new technologies play a key role in creating new jobs. It is estimated that tens of thousands of new jobs and several billion annual value added will be available by the end of the next decade, and these jobs will be created explicitly by small and medium-sized enterprises that use high technology and operate in the service sector. Investing in technology and innovation enables the emergence of entirely new service sectors and business forms. Today we cannot even know what new jobs will be in the future when the technological potential is truly taken into account. It takes courage for decision-makers to change their work. Our daily decisions affect what the future looks like. Finland cannot just be a chip on the law, but we must actively influence the direction of change. The key question is: are we making it possible to create new jobs and entrepreneurship, or are we preventing it? The wise state will act as an enabler in this matter. Our important task is also to ensure that the fruits of work are fairly distributed. Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliament considers it important that Finland continues to strive for a high employment rate and that people's livelihoods are safeguarded. Change security must also be developed to meet the challenges of changing working life. For the functioning of the labour market, cooperation between the various actors will continue to be necessary. We also need changes in both our taxation and our social security systems. By sticking to these basic principles, and also by reforming work, the transformation of work can be made more acceptable. High employment is also the best way to maintain the integrity of our society. In the midst of the transformation of work, the best future policy is investing in education and skills. At the same time, the future requires continuous learning from each of us and updating our skills. As the importance of knowledge continues to grow, recent massive cuts in education have been a wrong and harmful policy. The level of competence in Finland is falling. We need a shift in education and skills policy. The Socialist Group therefore proposes that a mid-term review of education policy in recent years be carried out as an independent study. This study would provide a basis for assessing the future needs of education and training policy. In connection with the report, we propose that all parties together commit themselves to turning Finnish competence into a new growth. Mr President! In this time, politics must be able to create faith for people in the future and the prospect of a better future. If we can't do this, we're out of sight. We decision-makers are now asked for courage: Will we seize opportunities or will we curl up in the face of threats? Despite all the threats and challenges, the transformation of work is an opportunity, and it needs to be more visible in the follow-up work of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u11	Mr President! Today we are discussing the first part of the report on the future of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government on the break-in of work and the future of Finnish work. The transformation of work is one of the biggest challenges in Finland, but also globally. We are dealing with environmental and climate change problems. We need new means, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, sharing economy and stronger environmental technology. We also need determination and humanity. There are no easy answers. The traditional link between growth, productivity and well-being can be broken in the change in work. This is a long-standing change. The transformation of work calls into question the link between traditional work and livelihood. The change will shape social arrangements and safety nets. This is the most painful part of the legislation and decision-makers. How do we ensure the coverage and functionality of the safety net in the midst of changes? We also need to find the right tools and support for new forms of organisation and self-employment, platforms, sharing economy and cogeneration. The boundaries between employees and employers, productivity, consumption, entrepreneurship and paid employment are mixed. Society structures such as the tax base or the customer base of our social security system are changing. The role of trade union movement and lobbying is also under pressure of reform. The challenges of change need to be addressed by all parties. Traditional barriers must be brought down in a controlled manner. Mr President! Technological progress treats individuals differently and at different rates. Workers have very different resources. That is why there is a risk of inequality between work and the labour market. This threat must be combated. Everyone must be involved and involved. The basic income experiment launched by the government supports this idea. Personally, I think that the world's biggest threats, in addition to climate change, are unemployment among young people. The world’s population continues to grow, and young people already account for half of the world’s population. The African Foreign Ministers have jointly raised concerns about the future of their young people. In Finland, young people have been looking for answers to unemployment, but they are not enough. Summits have been held at EU level on this subject, but not enough answers have been found. We need negotiating tables and ideas for generations. The risk of radicalisation and instability increases with everyone on the sidelines of society. There is a risk of fragmentation of life in transition and break-up situations. Nor can we forget the people of rural and sparsely populated areas. The sparsely populated areas must also be included and seen as an opportunity to produce work and supplies while respecting nature. Vitality in these areas must be safeguarded. Women produce half the world's food, receive 10% of their income, own a hundredth of their property. There is a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u12	Madam President! The future cannot be accurately predicted, but it can be predicted and studied. In Finland, a wide range of foresight work is carried out, of which this Government Report on the Future forms part. The most important aspects of the report relate to how the transformation of work calls into question the connection between traditional work and livelihood and how this affects, for example, the safety nets of our society. The topic of the foresight report is a good choice. The transformation of work is one of the biggest phenomena that shake our society, and its effects extend everywhere. At the same time, it challenges us politicians: it is no longer a question of whether we want to maintain or reform, but of how we maintain the foundations of our prosperity by reforming society. There are familiar megatrends behind the change in work, such as digitalisation, globalisation, demographic change, urbanisation and climate change. These things exist regardless of our policy. For example, fighting urbanisation at best makes change more difficult. The key is how to respond to change in a controlled way. Climate change, on the other hand, is an existential issue behind everything else. In order to achieve our agreed emission reductions, at least now, we need to rethink many of our everyday habits and habits. At the same time, we can already see the slowdown in economic growth that has become a characteristic of industrial time. In Finland, too, slow economic growth seems to be a new normal. Even economic growth will no longer automatically guarantee growth in employment. For an increasing number of people, the recession has never stopped, and the uncertainty of living has become permanent for them. For example, Demos Helsinki has well stated that there may be a change of a whole generation in which work, livelihood and capital are separated — and it may be misery. This has also happened in the history of industrial age. Young people are most affected by this situation. The change in working life combined with cuts in education makes it difficult to get and create the first jobs and can weaken the conditions for livelihoods for decades to come. It's a generational experience. The generation experience of today’s two to thirty - year - olds is often that no matter how hard you try, graduate and perform, there is still no certainty that you will succeed and find your place in working life. Small jobs do not buy apartments or summer cottages. They don't set up families, they don't make plans for the long future. As confidence in education to guarantee a secure job and social growth is undermined, the whole of Finland will be shaken. Mr President! It's been a long time since I was in my 20s. I filed dozens and dozens of applications. Even my university degree and previous work experience did not help, even though I applied for everything from the bakery packaging line to the office assistant. We already have a whole section of the population in this country, which in practice makes applications for employment for work. The feeling that it is not enough not to be able to do anything about it is our task here in Parliament to prevent it. This requires not only an active policy of vitality, but also extensive redefinition of work and extensive reform of the safety net. One important solution is basic income. Everyone must be able to experience participation and manage in all situations. Basic income provides a better basis for self-development and also for the creation of new work. Another important entity is to stick to education. For example, in addition to work, learning and re-training must be made easier. Nor should individuals be punished if their choices do not always go far into the future. The training path is no longer just one track, it is a network of crossing routes. And one of the tasks of this report on the future is to seek solutions to this issue. Mr President! The foresight report reminds us that knowledge is also the best security in creating an uncertain future. That is good, but the contradiction, particularly with the cuts in education, is worrying. There's still a way to change this direction. At the same time, we should also bear in mind that the transformation of work is not just a threat. I don't think the robots are taking any more jobs than the steam engines are. In turn, the sharing economy can contribute to a sustainable lifestyle and solidarity. Artificial intelligence, the development of science and technology and, for example, the 3D printing of things can generate new wealth and well-being. Now growing generations will see the world to which the science fiction of previous generations pales. This world may not be an easier place than it was in the past, but it certainly offers more opportunities than ever before. Mr President! The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance thanks for this report, hopes for a comprehensive follow-up to it and points out that the important comments made in the report would also be taken into account in everyday government policy. Make a future policy, create opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u13	Mr President! The first part of the report on the future is about the break-in of work. The work is indeed changing for many reasons. Our basic industry has largely moved elsewhere, and digitalisation is taking huge leaps. We have faced such a change before, for example Kalle Päätalo described changes in work in dozens of novels. In the '60s, when we had 100,000 loggers working in our forests, more than anything else, there are now high-tech motors, and the development of the forest industry is far from over. On the other hand, it has to be said that our country's industry has been proactive for a long time and, through the development of new products, it has also been possible to maintain, even grow, high-value manufacturing industry in Finland. When it comes to the future of the nation, work should be the first topic. Work will continue to create the welfare state that we want this country to see. Without work, there are no services for the weakest. Its well-being has always been paid for by someone with his work. Work is also human capital, not just money. The job gives to the person who did it and to the person who did it. What, then, will work be like in the future? How does its transformation affect our rules of the game? The foresight report focuses deeply on this issue by giving a picture of the situation and looking forward to 20 years. Mr President! Before long, automation is feared to cause worldwide unemployment of hundreds of millions of people. There is, of course, a justification for this threat, but we are the decision-makers who have been chosen to deal with it better, especially for our own country. A change in job description from the manufacturing industry could, if properly implemented, allow people to do more productive and, above all, more productive work. We must act in this difficult change to avoid, so that the labour market of the future does not mean high unemployment for Finland, but a time of new work. Finnish work is the number one issue for Finns. The main drivers of change in working life are the continuous development of technology and the ever-increasing globalisation of work. Instead of talking about these technologies and globalisation separately, these challenges must be met in one package. This will result in a comprehensive reform of the work, i.e. a transformation of the work. The latest technologies should be used in the overall reform of work. It should be possible to carry out the work on the basis of an electronic order in a demand-type way — a new period of freelance activities via platform services. New technologies can be artificial intelligence, robotized services, virtualization, self-organized platforms and so on. The development of artificial intelligence will be the next great technological change force that will change our understanding of work. It is in our interest to be involved in technological change rather than following the line led by others. Even if robotics are bound to come, whether we want it or not: we can decide whether to buy robots and their software produced by others at a high price, or whether we are more interested in taking our share in the development and marketing of this technology. Mr President! In order to be able to reform work as a whole, it is also necessary to be able to change the laws and conditions of the labour market. More and more emphasis must be placed on making work and carrying out work worthwhile in all cases. Whether the means of achieving this are the basic income or something else, the question must be resolved together. As a development point, it is customary in Finland to deal with labour market and technological developments in various forums, by different people. Labour market discussions do not take sufficient account of technological challenges and opportunities. On the other hand, technology experts are not sufficiently able to highlight the potential for reform with its justification. Finally, many things do not happen in a day, nor does the overall reform of the work. In the 20-year period, however, even major changes are possible. Take an example of the recent history of digitalisation: In 82, Jaakko Teppo sang about IEVA, the wonder machine in Oulu, which is used to find the hostess. IEVA, the VALINTA of the host and mistress, was a primitive artificial intelligence program that used to find a partner in agricultural exhibitions in the 80s by lonely hosts and wives. Artificial intelligence applications and dating programs have developed with strides from that time. Now, even in this hall, there may be some who know, Tinder or other similar dating program from which to get the hits. In that example, there was an overall reform of the digital platform of the club search. Mr President! The same phenomenon has been repeated in many other areas and will be repeated in the future. If there is a demand, technology will provide the means.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u14	Mr President! The left is grateful to the government for an excellent overview of the transformation of work. Although it comes late, the change has not yet escaped the reach of politics. We still have time to control its risks, seize its opportunities and decide what kind of society we want. All of this requires a common understanding of how work is changing and how it is changing society. These phenomena are well listed in the report. First of all, we must accept that the old gauges no longer work. The fate of GDP and the employment rate is disrupted, and digital disruptions undermine each one’s ability to measure well-being. The pattern of staring at the hours worked is misleading, for not all work is equal. It is therefore more important to look at the quality of work and to support activities that best contribute to the well-being of people and nature. It must also be understood that, while work as such is a necessary part of humanity, secular work is not necessarily a part of it. Finland also produces value outside traditional wage and entrepreneurship work. Volunteering in homes and organisations alone brings more than 50% of GDP on top of GDP. There is also something else: volunteer work, scholarship work, grey work, sharing economy and so on. The moral uplifting of capital - building work above other work is not only unfair but also dishonest. Yet, it is high time to let go of the chauvinistic concept of the economy, in which the male-dominated export sector is understood as a producer of wealth and female-dominated care and education as a consumer of it. Finland’s most important success factor is a healthy and skilled population produced in homes and well-being services. Without it, no cruise ship or cardboard container will leave this country. Mr President! The report paints a picture of tomorrow's worker, who is free from the shackles of time and place from industry, income form and project to project, who is able and willing to sell himself over and over again, whose power does not clot and the enthusiasm does not diminish. Such a life is already true for some, and many dream about it. Giving up one full-time job model and automation of routine work can at best mean freedom to choose their own working hours, tasks and colleagues. On the other hand, however, the report forgets that a large number of people are distressed by uncertainty. They want a job where they earn their daily bread and then return home to their families, and there is nothing unreasonable about this. In modern society, permanence was built on the relationship of paid work. This order of things doesn't work anymore. Already about one million people of working age live in atypical labour market status. They are unemployed, self-employed, shredded workers, mixed workers and more and more at the same time — one million in Finland. So far, the institutions of the labour market and welfare services have responded to the change through cosmetic corrections. For example, the unemployment benefit system has already built up so thickly on the ground that only a bureaucratic, reality-obsessed and arbitrary bullying system remains from the protection of the unemployed in the pre-archive. This cannot continue. If work no longer brings the needed certainty and continuity, it must be found elsewhere. Education, taxation, social security and service systems must be built entirely from the foundation to the principles of universalism, flexibility and simplicity. Mr President! In the end, politics is largely about how the necessary work and the value of the work can be shared sensibly and fairly. From this point of view, robotisation, digitalisation and artificial intelligence are not a problem but great news. So what if jobs are lost if it is because of productivity growth? Has this not been what mankind has been pursuing throughout its history? Technology as such does not threaten people’s livelihoods, but outdated cake sharing practices. If robots do business in the future, then robots also pay taxes. This would of course mean a strong shift from labour taxation to capital taxation. The transformation of work can lead to chaos and growing inequality — or release us in a way that no generation has yet experienced. Since the capitalist way of organising work and sharing value does not give in to change, but even in the context of increasing productivity, whipping people even harder and harder to run, it is worth considering other options.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u15	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! First of all, I would like to say that it is a good thing that the government has made this report on the future. As Chairman of the Committee on the Future, I think it is necessary for Parliament to become more involved in issues that go beyond day-to-day issues. This document is an important tool in the search for a path towards sustainable development. At least three things require understanding when working life changes. Firstly, we need to reform social security. Secondly, we must open our eyes to the new opportunities offered by new environmental technologies and the circular economy. Thirdly, we must courageously reform our working life by, for example, introducing local agreements based on trust and dialogue in the workplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u16	Mr President! This report is a very good and honest description of the current situation and, at the same time, forces us to look towards the future. The Government report talks about a major change in working life and work. The key question of the report is: what will be done when machines take away our jobs and the tax revenues of society with them? It's not the wind that's taken care of. Even today, we can see how traditional, permanent employment is decreasing and how working life is becoming increasingly fragmented. A good reminder of this was received earlier this period when the citizens' initiative on zero contracts was introduced to Parliament. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) believes it is important to talk about future changes and to seek ways of developing inequalities in particular. At the same time, it is good to remember that mankind has lived in the same mood as it is now. Throughout history, new machines and new inventions have shaped societies on several occasions, and work has changed its shape. The blazing "machines take our jobs" has been heard more than once in the history of mankind. However, new opportunities and new jobs have always been created as old jobs go away. The development of robotics and automation will radically change society: several jobs will disappear, and the rest will change. However, we cannot remain afraid of change; we must seize the opportunities of development. Right now it is important to invest in education, research and development. Only with knowledge, expertise and enterprise can our country benefit from development and its new business opportunities. Mr President! In its report, the Government paints two kinds of vision for the future. In the second, intelligent robots displace people from working life, resulting in growing numbers of unemployed people falling into poverty. In another vision, machines do all the bad work while people are able to focus on developing themselves and solving problems in a networked and prosperous world. However, in the middle of the horror scenario and utopia, the real picture of the future is likely to be found. Working life will inevitably become increasingly irregular. In fact, the report states that fragmented and irregular work is followed by fragmented and irregular livelihoods. The potential reduction in jobs also affects consumer demand. Is there going to be a permanent adjustment to the global decline in gross domestic product? Is there a permanent fall in consumption ahead? These factors lead to real challenges for the welfare society. Social security needs to be developed more flexibly. Family-free and child day care should also be developed to take into account the challenges posed by changing working life. The Christian Democratic Parliament has considered these major issues. However, we have not only given thought to it, but we have brought our own solutions that can overcome these challenges. The encouraging basic security model of the Christian Democrats would significantly reduce incentive traps and make all work worthwhile. On the other hand, the toddler bonus of our family leave model would increase the choice of families with regard to the provision of childcare. Mr President! The world is changing at an accelerated pace. By fearing change and by holding on to old structures and forms of work, with claws and teeth, we will sooner or later be left behind. We must courageously seize the opportunities of technological progress. If we want to benefit from change, we need to invest in knowledge. At the same time, the challenges of development for inequality, increased income inequality and fragmentation of working life should be taken into account. These challenges need to be addressed by developing social security and social services more flexible and supportive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u17	At this point we are going to have a small debate, and the first is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u18	Mr President! Thank you to each group for the very good, constructive speeches. I think we should have more of this discussion in this Chamber. A few words on this process from now on and then a few comments on the group speeches: Firstly, this report: apparently the committee is preparing to do so during the autumn. Hopefully then we will have a stronger, shared understanding of the transformation of the work. What has happened so far? Under the direction of VTT, 80 studies, studies and reports have been carried out on the basis of this. To build shared understanding there have been about 40 events, workshops, meetings or discussions, 30 expert events have deepened this understanding. This was discussed by the Heads of State or Government on 8 May, and this was 22 May in the Government's strategy session. Then we have an interesting open session of the Committee on the Future in SuomiAreena to discuss this issue, whether it was on 10 July, but in any case it is also a good place to deal with this in public. Preparations for the second part will begin already during the summer. The aim now is to have a shared understanding of this transformation of work. In the second part, it would be interesting to try to find a common understanding at the level of vision. On that basis, we will then be able to prepare for future action — we have also referred to the challenges of legislation that we are facing. The other Nordic countries are also committed to working in this good cooperation, building a common legal basis for this change. Well, then, has this been approached through threats or opportunities? I would say that this is definitely an opportunity for us. The opportunities are being emphasised, but we must remember that this report also estimates that an increase of around 4% of GDP is needed to maintain existing jobs, while the rule of thumb now is that little more than 1% is enough to maintain existing jobs and a few percent growth will start to overturn unemployment. So, is this 4% increase, then, a sustainable goal? It depends on where this growth is built. The work does not go away; that is not what the report says. The nature of the work, as it is currently understood, will change. Then, in order to create new jobs and entrepreneurship when announced, perhaps this government has not been criticised for lack of courage. Hopefully, we will have support for those courageous decisions, proposals that will make room for this new work and its transformation and also flexibility for working life. Then a few comments on the urban-rural counterposition. Rather, digitalisation will make it possible to work regardless of the place. I think we should make sure that there is also a good infrastructure for this in the whole of Finland, which we can maintain. I agree with the group speech of the Left Alliance: the old gauges do not work. GDP is no longer the best measure to measure well-being. Perhaps the irony is that in this happiness meter, which is an international measurement, GDP per capita is the key component. The Economic Council held a wide-ranging discussion on this eligibility of GDP as a measure, and it stated that at least this kind of digital correction would be needed at the moment, but its importance is not yet very great. Freedom to choose jobs, working hours, colleagues, but in return for uncertainty, this is the question. The subject was felt important here in all the speeches. I also understand that this extraordinary two-step way of reporting was accepted. I hope for an active focus and debate during the summer and autumn. It provides a good basis for this second part,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u19	Answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u20	Mr President! I, too, thank you for a constructive debate in this Chamber. I don't feel like I've been feeling this way in the last few days. We're looking to the future. Now that the Committee on the Future is making a report on this and then TyV, StV and SiV are making a statement, of course TuV will have the opportunity to ask for opinions from other committees, and I would see that TuV would use this opportunity, because this is a big deal for us in the future. In that regard, the Prime Minister has already pointed out what new models are coming, but I would like to ask whether finger training has already been carried out on this social network, including taxation. On the other hand, you have already pointed out that there should be different indicators alongside GDP. What could they be? In the report of the Committee on the Future, we are going to reflect quite deeply on these indicators and we could also help in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u21	Mr President! I too would like to join the Prime Minister and Mr Pirttilahti in saying that the speeches have been exceptionally constructive. Maybe politics will be easier in the future, go and know. Prime Minister! As I said in my speech, eight out of the ten largest start-up companies in the world would be almost illegal in Finland. This reflects the fact that our legislation is not agile enough for new technological solutions. The Committee on the Future has developed a tool that enables the identification of new technologies even before they are a reality. This could facilitate the work of legislators, because we could already pre-empt the emergence of new technologies here in Finland. For some reason, this possibility has not yet been seized by the Government. Would it not be a good time to introduce this tool?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u22	Mr President! I should like to join in thanking you for the constructive nature of this debate. If this conversation or the style of conversation is seen as a sign of the future, then it looks very good. Now, as far as further work on this report is concerned, it is really important that this committee initiates extensive further work on this subject, involving a wide range of stakeholders to consider these issues and in particular to seek solutions to these issues. Once this debate has been such a solution-oriented and well-seeking debate here today, we should hope that the ideas that this foresight report sets out — and hopefully we will also find such common solutions — will then also be reflected in the policies that have been made, because this is a common goal, and hopefully we will work together to push this forward across government-opposition boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u23	Mr President! As stated in this report on the future, the skills needed for work are now rapidly ageing, even faster in the future. More and more people have to or will be able to study another or a third profession during their working lives. But what is Finland doing? Restrict university studies to a total of 54 study grant months. My question is: how does this fit in with the continuing needs to update the skills highlighted in this foresight report, or is the government already preparing to reform the terms of the study grant for other qualifications?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u24	Mr President! The situation in society has changed dramatically over the last two years, and we have needed exceptional negotiating skills and capabilities by adapting society as a whole to all these structural changes and challenges that we have faced. I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister: has the government experienced that others are prepared to discuss how to resolve these challenges? I am referring here to the fact that we talked, among other things, about the confrontation between urban and sparsely populated areas, but also about trade unions, the business community — the Prime Minister and the government have met all of these. I would like to ask: has the spirit been good, or where do we still have something to heal?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u25	Mr President! With regard to my previous speech, the restructuring of the forest industry, it must be said that even during my primary school, the logger was still a fully existing profession. Back in the '80s, professional selection tests were carried out on computers, and I remember having just received a logger for my recommendation. In retrospect, I think the AI in that program was at least at the level of this IEVA and interpreted my feelings correctly, because I guess I answered the questions so that I wanted to work alone and physically. In many respects, it has come a long way to this point, but my job description is different from that of the forest. Perhaps, however, a serious lesson could be drawn from this that it is difficult to anticipate a change in job description at both the level of society and the individual. However, all work is valuable and teaches its author. The work that is available at any time should be done and the Lutheran work ethic should be respected in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u26	Mr President! The fact is that, immediately after ecological questions, the transformation of work is the most important thing that this house should be concerned about, and as we see in this Chamber, it does not have the priority place in our system that it should have. The fact is that our decision-making system — and now I am not just blaming the government because, in my opinion, this is a broader cultural problem — is currently focused on solving problems ten years ago. We work for years with an increase in working hours of 8 minutes, while a significant proportion of Finns no longer have working hours. And this is particularly sad because the problems that we should be dealing with today are not so much lagging behind because of ideological contradictions, but rather because they are more of a procedural problem. We would have an awful lot of work to do to better accept the change in work, a softer bill if we had attitudes both on the political side and also on the preparatory services side in better shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u27	Mr President! Just as the Prime Minister said, new technologies and this transformation bring opportunities. In order to take advantage of these opportunities or even to make innovations, we need a good education and a broad culture, and I think we should invest more in this. I would like to ask how the government sees this: How do we deal with this challenge? Should we not increase our investment in education and research?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u28	Mr President! This debate is a particularly big question of fate for Finland, because even now a middle-income person is not going to get along with his own income in the capital region because of the high cost of living that has been created here. At the same time, Finland is the fastest ageing people in Europe with a very low birth rate. It is quite right to ask whether Finland is becoming a European retirement village, where people with a high level of education live on basic income, thinking about the problems of poverty. This should not be the case, and that is why I look forward to a follow-up to what these creative solutions are, the kind of life you get with the work that is available. We spend more than 30 percent of our lives on doing things that are designed to enable us to secure our own livelihood. At the moment, the working relationship seems to be becoming negative. Even if there are two jobs, it seems that it is no longer enough to live in Finland. So we have a very complex package here to consider how to calculate these cost of living or whether there is even a time here when we will be satisfied with a lower standard of living. I was at a seminar where they asked... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u32	Mr President! I was delighted to see that the Prime Minister has taken such a personal interest in this subject and that this report has been very forward. It promises good things to come. In my view, the dual approach of this report being divided into two parts is well founded, given the seriousness of the matter. I would hope that, in the future, when we receive a report from the report, you will be able to consider a practical toolbox in the government as to how, for example, the ideas of the report could be taken into account in your budgetary procedure. It would certainly be a good thing for us to be able to make concrete progress on these issues already during this term of government. And as a question to the Prime Minister, I would point out that many practical matters relating to our legislation are decided on the labour market tables: how do you see the opportunities of the social partners to participate in this future work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u33	Mr. Speaker! When you look at this document before us, the speeches made by colleagues here and, in particular, by the Prime Minister's enthusiastic and competent speech, two speeches, you are convinced that the debate on the transformation of work is extremely important. I almost regard it as the most important priority in the future. When we have moved from shoveling and axing to digital and robotic work, we must remember to take care of the less fortunate, because there is a great risk that in the future there will be many of the companies and the people who know how to earn it, who will leave behind those who do not control the work. It is very central to this issue, which is very fine and very chewed here and prepared in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u34	Mr President! The success of Finland and the transformation of work require understanding that we no longer live in the agrarian society where the woman was at home. Women have their own job, their own career, their own income and their own pension. That is why our family leave system, which is firmly rooted in the past, urgently needs reform so that equality of opportunity, both in employment and in parenthood, can be achieved. In practice, the current system encourages women to be absent from working life for a long time. Nor does it best support the equal parenting of fathers or the practical possibility of working part-time. The current system is therefore very inflexible and does not yield to the transformation and challenges of today's working life. The work of the future and the smooth reconciliation of today's work and family; and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u35	Mr President! Hopefully, this first part of the foresight report will spark a wide-ranging debate, because we need a multi-disciplinary, multi-sonic, multi-stakeholder and multidisciplinary debate on the future of work and what future we want for Finland and Finland. On a general level, the debate on the future of work is difficult because work changes in different areas. I would also like to see sector-specific scenarios that, once they have been completed, could be the subject of an integrated debate. Existing megatrends, such as digitalisation, artificial intelligence, demographic change and urbanisation, mean very different things in different sectors and also in their work, and I do not think that this picture of the situation is sufficiently taken into account. What does the Prime Minister think about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u36	Mr President! There must also be a future in rural areas. Bishop Jolkkonen of Eastern Finland was at an expert hearing in the Committee on the Future and was very pleased to hear how he was concerned about living in the countryside and coping there. I share my concerns with Bishop Jolkonen. In the future, care must be taken to ensure that people who are still living with wolves in remote areas are also provided with social and health services and that access to settlements is adequate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u37	Honorable Speaker! Yes, this is exactly the case: we must bring about a comprehensive reform of the work. In my opinion, it would be formed in such a way that we get our service economy into a new era through digitalisation. So through the platform economy, we can cloud-based learning — that is, learning as a service. Blockchain-based innovations must be promoted, so we can conclude agreements with block chain technology. Remote work as a service and artificial intelligence as a service: above all, this artificial intelligence as a service will be a really big thing in the future, so AIAAS is the abbreviation. This government AI program, Intelligence There are Acts, is really good and must be promoted in every way possible. I believe that this artificial intelligence itself alters the concept of Finland, work and all that,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u38	Mr President! This is where Mr Kontula said that this job-breaking debate is right alongside the climate change debate in its importance. I fully agree that one major issue is the impact on our society. We are prepared for it and we have already experienced many careers and many jobs in people's lives, and that affects, among other things, the way in which this Finland's education and education and skills system will be in the future, that it will be able to provide sufficient broad-based skills to face up to this new job, to receive new work — and the same spill-over effect will also be on this social security side. I ask you, Mr Prime Minister: I think our young people are more interested in trying alone and more. What kind of prospects do you have when we talk about this change in work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u39	Mr President! Urbanisation is not only a global phenomenon but also a trend that has been going on for a long time in Finland and seems to be getting stronger. Seven out of ten jobs are in 14 of the largest urban areas. Ninety per cent of new dwellings are built in or near urban areas. I'll ask the Prime Minister: How do you see this idea, which we have had in this kind of mainstream, that is considered the whole of Finland inhabited? To what extent should we stick to it, and to what extent may it undermine the potential for changing GDP and job description, the opportunities that urbanisation, if accelerated, could promote? So I ask the Prime Minister to answer these questions and trends.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u40	Mr President! The report deals with the break-in of work, and it is quite diverse. It is very positive and is seen above all in this change in work. Personally, I am concerned about what will happen to those who may not be able to keep up with the change, although it is of course necessary to provide them with retraining. But if the kind of work they can do is lost, what can we offer these people? The importance of the work has also been highlighted here and the fact that volunteering can be one solution, but it is worth remembering that voluntary work has also accumulated and, in particular, voluntary work, there is a clear polarisation taking place so that those people who are doing well and doing well are also active and hardworking to volunteer, but they may not be able to find a place for those who do not find a place in work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u41	Mr President! I may be talking about threats when I did not have time to read this report but a few pages — but perhaps on summer holidays. According to the report, the consequences of a change in work may be enormous, but this will not happen in a very short period of time. The report mentions that artificial intelligence is perhaps the greatest single force for change. It would free a person's time for other things. And according to the report, according to the World Economic Forum, the industrial revolution would destroy more than 5 million jobs by the 2020s and would require global economic growth of 4% to keep this number of unemployed at this current level. I'm quoting Raiko, a researcher at Aalto University. He says that if society is based on the fact that much of the taxes are collected from earned income, there is a risk that the state finances will collapse, and that we must ask how taxation will be organised in the future if robots do a large part of the work, and that there is still a risk of wealth and decision-making powers being built up for those who own these robots.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u42	Mr President! As this report shows, so every day there will be new innovations that will change the reality in which we lived yesterday. One example of rapid development and change in operations is the famous Taiwanese company Foxconn, whose products include the manufacture of iPhones and iPads. Five years ago, 1.2 million people were employed by the company and 10,000 robots were used. At that point the company decided to increase the number of robots, and now the company already has 40,000 robots at its disposal, in a country where staff costs are only a fraction of our level. What kind of signal does this send to a country like Finland? I find it hard to believe that there will be a return to traditional big industry. We still have standards that prevent development. We have too much red tape and the general costs burdening small businesses, and so I ask the Prime Minister: how are we doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate, I would like to give the floor to Mr Kärnä, Mr Jaskari, Mr Anttila, Mr Honkonen. According to my calculations, anyone who has asked has received at least one reply in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u44	Mr President! I must begin by saying to Mr Kiuru that this was an unfortunate and unjustified confrontation between rural and urban areas. It is worth considering at the moment that recent research shows that urbanisation is currently uncontrollable, for example, in the Greens' party meeting, Osmo Soininvaara said. The whole Finnish economy benefits from keeping the whole country inhabited and taking care of the opportunities of the whole country. As far as this change in working life is concerned, many good speeches have said that digitalisation and robotisation are both significant changes in the world and the whole work is undergoing change. In the future, this work will not necessarily be enough for everyone, and I will keep it completely.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u45	Mr President! In the opening speech, the Prime Minister also threw out the question as to whether we should genuinely consider how many old, declining jobs we need to try to maintain and how much we need to create genuinely new jobs in the growing sectors. I would have asked the Prime Minister: for example, when you look at politics or business subsidies and what your interpretation is, how many support elements actually retain the old, which are slowly waning, in relation to the fact that there are clearly elements by the state that would create new jobs for those sectors which seem to be on the increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u46	Mr President! The question of shared understanding of the transformation of work today is very important and topical, as has been said here. Here I would like to raise the question of the success of Sweden in disputing to maintain a dialogue in working life that has then prevented these conflicts and others. In fact, the question is: should we learn something from this Swedish culture? One week ago, I had the opportunity to hear about the CEO who is working in Sweden, and he told me about this: how well it works in practice and how well information then goes from the employer to the employees. Representative Vikman raised the issue of family leave reform here. It is needed, it needs to be developed, but we probably have a slightly different starting point when the convention model starts with women primarily having to work, and the centre starts with families having to have the right to choose whether they are at work or whether they are at home looking after a child. It's your choice for families, and you can't remove it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u47	Well, here's the answer to Mr. Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u48	Mr President! It is important to correct the essential fact that in the model of the convention, i.e. the family leave model, it is precisely that it does not deprive anyone of the possibility of caring for a child until the age of three at home, as the current home care allowance allows. Instead, our model will bring much more flexibility and freedom of choice to family life. That's exactly what families in this situation need right now. Families also need better opportunities for fathers to share parenthood on an equal footing and, on the other hand, equality of opportunity also means that women have equal opportunities to move forward in their own careers. That is, the model of the coalition in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u49	To this end, Mr Anttila, I would like to make a final speech on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u50	Mr President! There is agreement with Mr Vikman that there is a need for different options. This table will then also need the social partners, because we must be able to make it possible to use part-time work in the future, because it has also proved to be an excellent tool in Sweden. That is why women in Sweden work more and more. So different working patterns, including part-time work. Together they must be developed, and it is good that women and families continue to have that freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u51	Mr Honkonen, and after him, the Prime Minister will have four more minutes. I don't think there's any on these books and covers, but a compromise, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u52	Mr President! It is clear that the change in work has been a matter that has been happening all along as we look back at history and it continues. In particular, the decline in the work to be done has continued throughout the last decades and seems to be accelerating. This report also anticipates the possibility that a large part of the workforce will be out of work in the future. It's possible. I do not consider it to be a desirable scenario, but it is a matter of creating unprecedented pressures, social pressure and social pressure. We must find the answers and the means by which these people are bound into society, when so far the work — as was said before — is the joy and honour of a man and, of course, of a woman — was what was committed to society and what was involved in society. But if this changes permanently and is no longer the reality of all,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u53	And now the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to answer as many as I can in four minutes. Representative Pirttilahti, I think in the future we need to find this kind of combination of social security and income. Mr Wallinheimo, our legislation is certainly not agile, and this technology foresight tool developed in the Committee on the Future will be recommended to the TEM for deployment. Mr Räsänen, political solutions are being sought here and are also being sought for a commitment across the opposition-government borders. Representative Plant, for this continuous development of competence: Actually rather than completing more degrees, in the future we need to learn continuously in the work. It's part of the job, part of the free time. Mr Elovaara, in a very good spirit, a common vision has also been sought with the social partners and the parties involved. The second question then is when we start talking about those solutions. Congressman Mäkelä, I couldn't agree more: all the work is valuable. Representative Kontula, in exactly the same way as this ecological change and the transformation of work to the same level. And I also agree that it does not get a role in our debate that is worthy of it. Then there is the following: We have to look 20 years from now. This is a change, and the most important thing now is to go in the right direction. Mr Blomqvist, I agree with Mr Blomqvist on investing in education. Who will pay for it, and how will it be done in the future? I believe that, as I said, it will be part of our ongoing work and also of our leisure time. For example, sustainable development indicators will be at the centre of these new indicators. Mr Laukkanen, the question of ageing: We have examples from the world where this has been solved in such a way that productivity trends are sufficiently strong. Then we will be able to respond to the development of ageing. Mr Parviainen, the conclusions of the report will then be taken into account in the second phase. I have already answered the question of the social partners. Representative Juhantalo, you took an important point of view that not everyone is able to participate in this new type of work, that is where the significance needs to be sought, and Juho Saare's working group is now focusing on this aspect in particular. Mr Vikman, I agree: we have many rigidities, and this, which you mentioned, is one of them. Representative Oinonen, agrees with the rural issue. We must take care of the infrastructure throughout Finland, and this is also an opportunity for the countryside. Congressman Vähämäki, your AI comment: I couldn't agree more. We will also make an artificial intelligence strategy by this government. Representative Kryptonite, the attempt on his own is on the increase. Its conditions must be improved. It's been cured. For example, it was decided to improve unemployment security for self-employed workers in the spending limits debate. Mr Kiuru, I think this will bring opportunities for the whole of Finland. And this kind of urban and rural confrontation — we don’t need it but we both need each other. I think that is a good starting point here. Mr Mikkonen, I hope that this Juho Saare task force will also provide answers to the question you have asked. Representative Mäkipää, this is also a challenge for taxation, as the report states. Congressman Östman, there are too many standards. The good news is that the government will not give up, but at least another 200 will be followed by over 200 dismantled standards. Congressman Kärnä, I think this basic income experiment is all right. Its preliminary results should already be clear when considering the second stage. Representative Jaskari, business subsidies should be more renewable, I agree with that. The second thing is how easy it will be. Congressman Anttila, Swedish culture is good. What may be different from us there is especially the amount of local reconciliation, and that is reflected in this disputing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u55	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u56	Mr President! I have talked a lot about evidence-based decision-making, and I therefore welcome the fact that this picture of the situation is based on an examination of 86 reports and studies. Thank you for that. On the other hand, I am a little disappointed that the report looks too much at what is lost and not at what is new. For example, the report by the Committee on the Future, Sustainable Development, gives a much more positive picture of future work than this report. Losing jobs doesn't mean losing a job. In the 18th century, steam engines and since then, many other innovations have been feared to take all jobs away, but they have created new jobs. There is a need for creativity and the ability to see new opportunities, but on the other hand, the government must ensure adequate funding for science, research and development and innovation to enable new innovations to develop, produce, commercialise and market. There is also a need for discussion on the concept of work, i.e. what work is. If, for example, work is defined in a meaningful way in society through participation, there is no matter how much work that is not done. Experience of a meaningful place in the Community and in society is important for all of us. This is also relevant for social peace. Staying outside prevents you from becoming involved in society. It is precisely in this time period that this reflection should take place more often. In part, I wonder why part-time workers are not mentioned at all in this report. Mr President! When it comes to work, surprisingly often people forget to talk about a person. Man is easily seen as a mere tool for something. People are expected to adapt passively to changes. This is also reflected in the debate on changes in the content, practices and organisation of work. This debate highlights the need for an employee to be willing to continuously learn new, innovative, flexible, mobile and networked. Working and leisure time are increasingly mixed and work is not perceived through working time, jobs and employers. This debate, too, is as if it has been completed, and the question of whether this is good for man seems to be completely forgotten. Man also needs rest and leisure. A study appeared a couple of weeks ago that 21% of working young adults, i.e. between 18 and 29 years of age, are taking mental medicines or painkillers to improve their work performance or to survive in working life. Man’s brain cannot do many things at a time or continue to be in the work mode, even though we have such delusions. If you think of young adults who use these medicines to make their work more effective, there is a high risk that they will get tired at work, take sick leave and retire prematurely. When we talk about the future of work, we talk far too little about well-being at work. I looked at the current government program and found that the current government programme never mentions the word well-being at work, and it says quite a lot. The report also talks about changing the employer-employee relationship and replacing permanent employment relationships more often with different forms of shredding. The work will be agreed locally on a task-by-work basis. The problems of this development are already evident as a polarisation and an increase in poverty. For example, the growing poverty of families with children is now showing that working for both parents will no longer help the family out of poverty if the work is shredded work. It is therefore essential that we find models of social security which, in a working environment such as this, serve as a sufficiently supportive bridge from one job to another. A flexible transition from one job to another also requires, for example, the existence of portable benefits and social security accounts. On the other hand, it is good to remember that there will also be a lot of permanent work in the future, and under these circumstances a Nordic culture based on agreement has helped to cope with competition. A few weeks ago, Armi Mustosmäki's doctoral dissertation stated: "The Nordic quality of working life is the best in Europe — but for how long?" The Nordic model includes good working life structures and institutions. These good practices should not be uncritically thrown away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u57	Mr President! Firstly, that question, which I put to the Prime Minister in that line earlier, and to which I received a very constructive answer from Sipilä. Obviously, I made myself a little unclear because Mr Kärnä thought it was a somewhat inappropriate argument. So it was urbanisation, numbers that show our urban development. I think it is quite reasonable that we should take into account what is happening around us and consider the measures to be taken to ensure that the future is the way we want it to be. So I did not argue against or in favour of urbanisation, nor did I want to set the countryside against the city. Teddy Pooh pondered the strategy in a cartoon. He said, "If we don't know where we're going, we could go anywhere." It is difficult to predict the future: the further we look, the more the outlook becomes. Bill Gates predicted at the Davos Economic Forum in 2004 that the spam problem would be contained in two years. Professor Hannu H. Kari predicted the same thing in 2004 that the internet would collapse in 2006. I don't doubt the expertise of these gentlemen. I doubt our ability to predict the future accurately. Still, it is worth trying to look to the future. It is worth leaving the megatrends, as has been done in the report. Digitalisation, globalisation, population growth, urbanisation, climate change are the megatrends mentioned in this report. The transformation of work is a major challenge. It will be considered in this first part of the report. It is estimated that a global increase of around 4% per year would be needed to keep the number of unemployed at its present level. At the same time, however, the world’s population is growing net by over 200,000 per day. In 2050 there will be 1.3 billion Africans, or 1300 million more. It corresponds to more than 230 Finnish people — a completely unsustainable development. On this basis, a reasonably well-founded prediction is that climate change, population growth and the ensuing political instability, the collapsed countries, the refugee situation are ahead of us, as are the changes in work in many ways. Our income distribution, social structure, decision-making, standards and objectives are based on thinking that is losing its meaning in many respects. The growing production of goods and the growth of gross domestic product will not be the core factors that guide our operations. The value base of work and consumption is changing. Of course, human work itself and its need are not running out. However, if we look at future trends, which in many respects seem uncomfortable, although there is also a lot of potential — in any case, the future seems foggy — it is worth trying to avoid the worst options and scenarios that lead to unfortunate development. Happiness and balance are not found in the freight sky. We must try to avoid climate change. It is a matter of fate, as has been revealed during this debate. A disproportionate increase in income differentials leads to distortions and pressures that may result in local or even global anarchy. It's worth looking to the future. One way is also to study history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u58	Mr President! I got excited when I read this report, and I got excited about it because it evokes a lot of ideas but does not give the answers that are ready — and there are no answers to all these questions. This has been an opportunity for two hours to listen to this debate, and I have no written speech, but I thought some comments might be made: For me, too, it is always an opportunity and not just a model for the accumulation of threats. It has often been said that change must always be a safer option for workers than staying in place, and this also applies to changes in working life or to life, perhaps more generally. Perhaps this report could have dealt with the principle of purpose in the work in greater depth. I myself think that work is more than just a way for people to get along. This is also reflected, among other things, in the long-term unemployment of people. Although human dignity must not be measured by work, the purpose of the work, its inclusion and its attachment to society and the community are important principles. This is a little thin in this report. There may also be a difference of opinion on this. The work also changes shape and partly separates from time and place, and in a way it attaches itself to these global value chains, from which the work also needs to be picked up by Finns. These forms of action are changing rapidly, which is what we have been talking about here a lot. In a short time, the same person may be in full-time work, temporary work, education, unemployment or self-employment, and it is essential to ensure that the joint stages of people’s transition from one form of work to another are more secure than now and require training, support for social security in this change and the organisation of services and security of change. This is the kind of package that is needed, and that is what we in Finland lack. It is a rather big reform, but if we could do it, people would be able to move naturally and safely from one form of work to another. The phenomena of change in work are diverse. One of them is that we have this kind of creeping restructuring: 500 jobs on average disappears every day, and almost the same is born new. Digitalisation, robotisation, artificial intelligence, all this destroys work but also more work, and hopefully in the future more than destroys, and that is a necessary development. The polarisation of work, about which much has been said here — that, in a way, middle-class and middle-paid jobs are decreasing and work is concentrated on those ends — really matters if that happens. When the middle class pays the Finnish taxes and if, in a way, this kind of middle class work fades, what will happen to our tax system and financial base? We could talk about this a lot. These new manifestations include the fact that more than 150,000 people work for at least two employers in Finland today to get on with themselves, and then the importance of this kind of platform economy, crowding workers grows. With regard to these big principles relating to work, I would like to say a few things: One is that this concept of our welfare society is based on a high level of employment. 1 % of the employment rate brings 800 million good to public finances. I still think that this concept of a welfare society requires a very high level of employment and it would be good to start there. The second point raised in this report is that we are trying to think about extending the concept of work, extending it. I believe that the concept of work could be broadened so that work and learning, work and education in employment are linked together and are part of the employment relationship. One such idea would be to extend the concept of work to learning. Then this relationship between employment and economic growth: is it true that smaller economic growth will also bring about a good employment development, while we must, however, separate growth from the waste of natural resources? Then perhaps the most challenging issue is how we combine work, income and social security, and how close the relationship between work and income should be in the future, and this involves discussing basic income and other issues. Then, perhaps in conclusion, I should like to say, referring to Sweden's experience, that in modern working life, working life should not be an area fenced by democracy or a free zone. On the contrary, people need to be more involved and more involved in the work and the work itself. In Finland, working life should be democratized: autonomy for everyone to do their own work, but would it be sensible to launch a project to increase employee involvement in corporate governance and thus eliminate the fact that many people do not start creativity until after a working day when the work does not provide:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u59	Madam President! The success of Finland and the transformation of work require that our family leave system, which is firmly rooted in the past, be reformed in order to achieve equality of opportunity both in working life and in parenthood. In my speech, I will focus in particular on family leave. In practice, the current family leave system encourages women to be very long away from working life. Moreover, the current system does not best support the equal parenting of fathers and does not actually allow part-time work to take place on family leave at all. The current system is therefore very inflexible, while the interfaces between unemployment, work and entrepreneurship are blurring. This involves various temporary work, changing employment relationships, rapidly changing work situations, which the current family leave system simply does not give in to. All these shortcomings can and must be corrected, as has already been done with good results in Sweden, for example, where the employment of young women is significantly higher than in Finland. The family leave model proposed by the Coalition Party would also solve all these problems. Moreover, the old-fashioned family leave system does not take into account current research into the importance and importance of early childhood education on the child’s later school path and career. The timeliness of our education system must be constantly taken care of so that it gives everyone as good a starting point as possible for life and for the work of the future. The work of the future and the smooth reconciliation of today's work and family life require more flexibility and agility, i.e. a whole new family leave system. In the early part of the year, the Coalition Party has presented a family leave model which is an excellent response to the very transformation of work and the changing work situations we are dealing with today. There is also a very broad, even exceptionally broad, social consensus on the reform of family leave. It is therefore high time that we took action. Once the government has launched the preparation of a comprehensive reform of social security, I propose that family leave be considered as part of this overall reform of social security. We decision-makers have a big role to play in how Finland will cope with the change in work. Are we enablers or brakemen? By reforming family leave, we will make it possible to reconcile work and family. This is how Finland is kept at the heart of change. I hope that the Committee on the Future in its own report will take strong account of the need for reform of family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u60	Mr President! The transformation of work is perhaps the biggest challenge facing Finland, and this is how the report on the future is discussed. I personally think that Finland’s biggest challenge is climate change, but the second biggest may well be work. The change in work is an undeniable fact. The nature of the work, the ways in which it is done and the content are changing. Jobs are disappearing and new jobs are being created. But the job doesn't go away. Yet, change is a fundamental challenge for our society as a whole and also for us as individuals. Mr President! The foresight report highlights many aspects that we Greens have also raised. The strong message of the report is that the transformation of work requires continuous updating of skills. We Greens have also reminded the government of this on many occasions in connection with the cuts in education. In the future, when work changes, we also need to rethink the economy. An increasing share of national income is derived from labour taxation. The transition from labour taxation to taxation of disadvantages is essential for the sustainability of the national economy. According to the report, gross domestic product measures the well-being of people increasingly badly, but also the development of the economy. We need new gauges. At the same time, radical decoupling of economic growth and environmental impacts is needed. There is also much talk of competitiveness when it comes to work. According to the report, this aspect of bargaining on wages and benefits is already out of date. We agree with the Greens. Mr President! The change in work will increase the importance of knowledge. It is estimated that in the future almost everyone living in the West will be doing information work. At the same time, the importance of education is growing. Lifelong learning becomes a necessity from virtue. This is why the quality and resources of education must be taken care of and the possibility of re-training for all, perhaps several times in their lives, must be guaranteed. Unfortunately, the decisions taken by the government have been the opposite: training has been cut and the sector has been hampered. These decisions require a U-turn. However, knowledge alone is not enough. Skills becoming more important in future working life, working together, learning new things, flexibility, critical thinking, self-management. Without these, you won't be able to work in the future. This also calls for a reform of the education system. It must be able to guarantee these basic skills for everyone. Then, on the study path, broadness and diversity may not be a weakness but a strength. Although the work of the future is physically lighter and more liberal, it can at the same time be mentally heavier. Mr President! The work of the future is a puzzle. It brings together a meaningful whole of a combination of paid work, entrepreneurship, freelance jobs and other forms of work. When work breaks up, the same happens to livelihood. This poses a completely new challenge to the security network in society. Without basic income and the overall reform of social security, we will not be able to respond to this change. Finding your own path to life has become more difficult. This leads to an increasing risk of exclusion. Uncertainty in working life is becoming more and more common with the same group of people. We have lost nearly 80,000 men permanently outside the world of work and study, and there is a threat of increasing numbers. It is said that the work of the future is increasingly about creating meaning. It is often thought to mean that those who are excluded from traditional work are building up the meaning of life from a variety of pieces, such as voluntary work. The report overlooks the fact that voluntary work also accumulates. Research shows that the most volunteer work is done by those who are the best at all, healthy, highly educated and satisfied people. Many less educated or inactive people are also excluded from voluntary activities. The focus of work also focuses on well-being and livelihood. Then inequality will increase. Mr President! The change in work is inevitable but slow. The report asks if creative destruction should be accelerated. For social justice, it could sometimes be better even to slow it down. According to the report, the transformation of work is essentially not a threat but a huge opportunity. This may be the case at the level of society. At an individual level, it can sometimes be a disaster. In the second part of the report, when considering solutions to the transformation of work, they must be those that keep everyone involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u61	Mr President! When I listened to the chairman of the Committee on the Future, I noticed how proactive and well prepared they are for this report, and when you look at the content of this report, you can see the enormous amount of work that needs to be taken into account in the autumn when the work is being done. This is very multi-faceted as the content and importance of work change, and then we need to be prepared for how it will affect society in the future. In his reply twice, the Prime Minister stressed that technology produces freedom and prosperity. It is certainly a concept that everyone will strive for in the future: more freedom, but also prosperity, either as a result of pay, business or business activity. This is a very positive thing for people, and it is therefore necessary to increase productivity. There must then be two things involved. Life-sustaining education is essential. In fact, even now, generations of people are rather ill-understanded when we talk about the concept of work today, let alone my age group, to whom, for some, it is hard to learn how to use a computer, some people hesitate and do not need it. The only way to overcome this prejudice is by giving the school system a familiar knowledge of the tasks that are being done with modern technology and with modern thinking. They're used, they're learned to use. It will reduce the practical steps immediately to move forward in any area where digital thinking and robotic thinking are necessary. This will then result in us being on another essential issue, namely the proper distribution of pay or income in society. It's in the other hand. We must assume that there will be no backwardness and that those who will inevitably be left behind will be taken care of like the civilised state. Thirdly, this thinking: The change in the content of work, as stated in this report, must be taken into account today, in today's legislation and in modern life. An example of this was the basic safety test and the traffic cycle, which has already been based on preparing for the future. The challenges of the coming period are great and the whole concept of work is changing, just as Mr Ihalainen described here. This causes a turmoil of insight in the brain of every human being, in which positively you have to assume that in one way or another you prefer to stay well in life at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u62	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Now this theme is so big that it would be really great for us to have an active debate, an active dialogue on how we could genuinely transfer Finland to a new society. If scientists are to believe, indeed, about half of the jobs in the US will disappear in the next 20 years, and in Finland it has been estimated that around one third of jobs will be completely renewed, so that we need to think about genuinely different options in politics as well as what on earth we should do, that it will be an opportunity for us rather than a threat. Indeed, the first question is what — we need to know what — are growing jobs and what are the jobs that are likely to decrease, decrease, even disappear altogether. And, of course, politics comes up with the answer to the question of how on earth we are going to train those people for the new jobs, or do we have a policy that is desperately trying to preserve old jobs, and that is why, in the end, we are supporting things that are dwindling, jobs that are otherwise at an even faster pace? The second question relates to the situation between work and entrepreneurship and unemployment. We have all seen in recent years that we have more than 200,000 sole entrepreneurs, and this is actually the result of a change in the image of the work as a whole. We no longer hire so many people in traditional employment relationships because we do not know if there will be any work in the future, which will make it much easier to hire an entrepreneur to do a certain thing, a particular project. And then our policy comes to mind in the comments and in the questions of what is, for example, social security for entrepreneurial work or unemployment security, that we should be able to do more securely such dumpings also for new jobs, new forms of entrepreneurship. At the moment, there is very little social security. On the other hand, you can also ask about new work and leadership. I would argue that there is not yet enough thought on the leadership side in Finland as to what kind of new work is, because in many new jobs the meaning of time and place is diminishing very much, but we still have very traditional perspectives on how the work is managed, which in fact leads to Finnish work not succeeding, because the new kind of work is not easily managed. And then, as the fourth question, it becomes a wider question, which policy could genuinely bring us new, growing jobs in Finland. I have already put this question to our debate and also to the Prime Minister. For example, we have business subsidies, various kinds of subsidies. If you think broadly of tax subsidies, you will receive more than EUR 6 billion. There are over 1.6 billion direct business subsidies. We should genuinely discuss what supports new creation and what supports genuinely preserving work in this society. And could you consider that if the same sums of money were transferred inside, even if transferred to another, it would perhaps multiply the amount of Finnish work? The same thing has to do with training. When we talk so much about lifelong learning, why do we still have a surprisingly large threshold for genuinely lifelong learning? We are talking about training two days or three days in the workplace when there should be continuous training, continuous renewal. It really has to do with social security, between work and trying. We should be quite open-minded about the basic account, the income registers, the reform of work and social security. We are talking about how much it will cost, but we are not talking about what option will be very expensive. And then we need to talk about taxation: how do we change the focus of taxation so that it is always worthwhile to do it and also to try to make it worthwhile and not be jealous?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u63	Congressman Hokkonen is gone. There are three more requests to speak, representatives of the plant, Räsänen, Mäkisalo-Ropponen. Let us leave these, but if there are any further requests to speak, then we shall suspend, as had already been agreed in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u64	Mr President! Yes, today the world is changing faster than ever in human history. Finnish working life changes with the world. The structures of Finnish working life are already well behind in the development of work, and this is reflected in high unemployment. When structures are not flexible, employment rates are flexible. Megatrends, such as globalisation, digitalisation, climate change and change in the age structure, already have a much greater impact on working life in the coming years. This report is not so much a report on the future as a report on the change that is already taking place. We're already drinking robot milk. Our insurance application is processed by an algorithm. We buy clothes and household appliances online. In Norway, home nursing medicines are administered by a Finnish distribution robot, which by the way does not seem to be suitable for our Finnish municipalities. In Tallinn, pizzas bring home a messenger robot. At the Meilahti Women's Clinic, artificial intelligence follows the condition of premature babies. Our securities are managed by an algorithm that learns from a broker. And robot trucks, ships and drones — they are already in the test phase. The effects of this digitalisation are dramatic, as technology develops exponentially rather than linearly. New technology takes advantage of old technology. For example, genetic engineering takes advantage of the development of information technology and robotics the development of material technology. Future researchers have found that technology and society will develop as much in the next 20 years as in the previous 200 years combined. 200 years ago, in 1817, Europe was recovering from the recent Napoleonic wars. Mr President! As stated in this report, work and the importance of work are changing dramatically. In the next few years, a large proportion of jobs will disappear, new jobs will be created and old ones will change. At the same time, the work separates from time, place and collective agreements. But what is Finland doing? It's a little longer than a few minutes of working time. Kiki could have worked in the '80s, but now it only tells us how badly we have fallen behind in the transformation of working life. If I had recently argued in a basic course in the production economy that the economy would be saved by extending working hours by a few minutes, I would not have been able to get a very high score. Mr President! Digitalisation revolutionises all the structures of society and it is not self-evident that old industrialised countries such as Finland are 30th-century digital countries. In global competition, only the fastest countries will survive, and there are no other awards. Indeed, the old success can even be a barrier to Finland’s development. The attitude of Finns towards digitalisation is unfortunately a very old saying: "What's the rush in this, in a ready-made world?" When skills are rapidly ageing, we need to update our education and training from qualifications to lifelong learning. After all, in the future, the degree is mainly allowed to enter further training to maintain its skills. At the same time, the student support system needs to be updated in a world where people study with their careers in two or more professions. The recent decision to limit the study grant months of university studies to 54, regardless of the number of degrees, represents not the future but the past. When a growing proportion of the added value is generated by artificial intelligence and robots instead of human beings, we need to update our taxes on labour income tax to taxation of added value, whether it has been produced by man, robot or artificial intelligence. The current tax system, which focuses on the taxation of human labour, penalises human work and encourages it to automate work even if it is otherwise a competitive option. When people's livelihood consists of the shredding of several different incomes, we need to update our social security to the basic income. After all, part of the career is already in paid employment, part as an entrepreneur, part as an unemployed person, part as a student, part as a grant, part as a sickness or rehabilitation allowance, part as a part-time pension, part as a family leave and part as a family carer. No wonder the needy social security system is already so complicated that no one is in control of the whole. All these and many other necessary structural changes must be made now, not sometimes in the future. This report on the future should therefore be called the current report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u65	Mr President! A few more comments on this commendable debate on this report on the future. When we talk about the future in Finland, we usually overestimate the effects of change in the short term, but in the long term we underestimate them. This is the key factor that we should take into account in the debate and in future policy actions, that we would be able to draw our attention to precisely the anticipation of these long-term changes and the need for change and the measures we should take. In this way we can also make this change much easier to receive from different people. Then the measures that should be taken in Finland to ensure that we will have work here in the future are exactly what has been highlighted in this debate. They relate to the fact that, firstly, legislation must enable new jobs to be created, our tax and social security systems need change, and our labour legislation is also in the same package and needs reform. With this good dialogue, I believe we can move forward. But the key demand for a change in working life and work in the future is indeed this future of our education policy. In this context, the challenges are linked to how we are increasingly making it possible to achieve continuous learning — an extension of the definition of lifelong learning — and how our own education and training system supports it. After all, the aim must be to increase the level of competence on a continuous basis, and there are many challenges here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u66	Mr President! First of all, I apologise for the argument I made in my previous speech that there is no mention of the word 'well-being' in the government programme. Mr Kalmari kindly showed me that the word 'well-being at work' is mentioned once, so this mistake was also corrected. As I said earlier, this report is a good source of debate, but perhaps it would have been useful to emphasise that changes in working life are not inevitable but can also be influenced politically and institutionally. After all, the task of forecasting is to create both positive and negative scenarios, and then the policy task is to consider how to prevent negative scenarios as much as possible and how to move towards positive ones. The atmosphere in this report, in the first part of the report on the future, is perhaps a little too much to highlight these threats. This report could have given more courage to the creation potential of new work. Mr President! A few more words on the two lines of discussion raised in the report, which are being discussed separately in society, although neither of them alone is sufficient to grasp the future — the Prime Minister also spoke about this in his own speech. These topics are, firstly, a debate on the relevance of work and, secondly, a debate on productivity and competitiveness. The debate on the relevance of work is an individual-centred debate with particular emphasis on information work. It often says here that income comes from a number of streams, that organizations are temporary and changing. This debate is often related to digitalisation and the platform economy, and unfortunately, it is often completely excluded from this debate and is therefore a restricted debate. The macroeconomic economy will then be highlighted in the second line of discussion, i.e. productivity, efficiency and competitiveness. The efficiency debate does not always take into account the diversity of different sectors, and in social and health care, for example, productivity gains alone do not increase efficiency. In other words, productivity alone cannot be thought of there, because efficiency is the ratio between input and effectiveness, and without effectiveness, no matter how much more output can be obtained. Just a concrete example — a little easy and naive — is thought of as home care: In many municipalities home visits by home care workers have increased considerably, so that work has become more productive, but at the same time it has not been considered effective. This has meant that there has not been enough time for the rehabilitation work at the customer’s house, which means that there are only quick health visits, which means that the activity is no longer impressive and that the customer’s ability to function is impaired and that he has to move out of his own home earlier. Then home care has become ineffective. When it comes to the effectiveness of the social and health sector, it must be viewed from the point of view of health economics rather than business. I brought this example here only because I stressed in my own earlier speech that different areas cannot be put on the same line in the debate on the future. That is why, in my own speech, I hoped that sector-specific scenarios would be developed in the future, and it would also make it easier for citizens to participate in this debate on the future. It may be difficult for citizens to participate in the debate at too general a level, and I would really like this debate to become sufficiently wide-ranging. Mr President! This has been a very interesting and good debate. I thank everyone for that, and I look forward to further discussion in the Committee on the Future in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u67	This is where I now have to suspend this debate and this matter, as announced in advance. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u68	Now we will continue with the debate on item 4 that was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u69	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry (MmVM 7/2017 vp), the position on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The debate on this subject will take place until 6:10 p.m. for an hour and a half and, if necessary, the debate will continue after the other points have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u70	Madam President! The Government's report on food policy outlines the vision of Finnish food policy as well as future objectives and key operational priorities. The committee considers these to be a step in the right direction. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry dealt with the report very carefully and heard almost 50 experts, including the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and the Environment. I am pleased that the committee's report is unanimous. It provides good opportunities for the development of food policy and the rise of Finnish food exports. The world is changing. There will be 8.5 billion people on earth in 2030, so food security will become more important. It must be possible to secure food, water and energy production using limited resources in a sustainable manner. Climate change and increased antibiotic resistance pose serious global challenges. If anyone is still wondering what the benefits of food production in Finland are, I can answer that our committee does not. The food sector produces good EUR 15 billion for the national economy, 9 per cent of the value added of our country. The clear strengths of the Finnish food system are food purity, traceability, safety. They should be better exploited as competitive factors on the domestic and export markets. The competitiveness of the food system is based on sustainable, high-quality, ethical and competitive primary production. Its survival in Finland is also absolutely essential for the processing food industry. In its report, the Committee stresses the need to improve the profitability of agriculture. In addition to the difficult agricultural market situation and sanctions policy, the problems of the sector have been exacerbated by reduced producer prices, reduced subsidies for farmers, increased input costs and timetables for payments. We raised to the level that the role of the primary producer in the food chain must be secured through legislative measures. In addition, the origin labelling of products must continue to be improved. Consumers want to ensure that their food is produced and sourced. We welcome what has already been done and we thank and encourage Minister Leppää to take initiative in the labelling of restaurant food. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) published a report in 2017 which examined the cleanest Finnish food in Europe, i.e. the cleanest food in Europe. We must be proud of this and we must also make greater use of it in the marketing of food. Thanks to good animal care, the use of antibiotics per farm animal in our country is one of the lowest in Europe. In Finland, animal protection regulations are the world's top priority. Making quality costs money, and it is not worth selling at the price of a bulge, thinks our committee. Sustainable agriculture with its cultural landscapes is an environmental act. Automation, circular economy and local energy are growing strongly. We encourage these to move forward. Mr President! The demand for fish continues to grow. The committee notes that the proportion of domestic fish consumed has fallen to a alarmingly low level in our country of tens of thousands of lakes. In its report, the committee wanted to raise the issue of fish production, as well as under-exploited shards and herrings. The growing demand for domestic fish can also be met through fish farming. The rapid development of technology and know-how in the Finnish aquaculture industry has reduced the environmental impact of the sector on water systems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a significant increase in the quantity of packaged water imported into Finland. The Committee stresses the urgent need to tackle and resolve the problems of taxation and administrative obstacles that make exports of high-quality Finnish water difficult. The committee also considers that Finnish everyman's rights in fishing, berrying and mushrooming are a valuable tradition that must be maintained and promoted in the future. The committee notes in its report that research is essential for the development of the food chain. The development of commercial success products requires much closer and more systematic cooperation between research and companies. In its report, the committee stresses the importance of our food culture. It is important for Finnish food culture to remove barriers to the acquisition, processing and provision of local food. The difficulties associated with meat processing are an example of excessive standards. Finland is known worldwide for free and guided school meals. The cost of school food will not be compromised under economic pressure. Government resolution on domestic quality products — that was a fine line. The low consumption of vegetables, fish and whole grain grain, as well as the excessive intake of salt, saturated fat and sugar, affect our public health at an annual level of up to EUR 2 billion. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health raised health-based taxation in its opinion, and the Committee shares the view that taxation could encourage product development. Mr President! The environmental impact of food production has been in vain if food becomes lost. Reducing food losses and using side streams in processes also contribute to the circular economy. It is possible to reduce losses in households by clarifying the durability labelling of products. "Best of all, good after all, there is a golden rule for each one of us. The expiry date shall be indicated only on products where the time limit for use includes a genuine health risk. The bottlenecks in food aid are the logistics of food transport and the organisation of storage. We have good, copyable models of cooperation between organisations and municipalities. Mr President! Finland’s food exports are on a new increase, and the value of exports is EUR 1.5 billion per year, but the trade balance still stands at around EUR 2.7 billion. The committee considers it absolutely necessary, both economically and in terms of security of supply, to reduce this deficit rapidly. Finland’s food exports have been promoted through project-type export programmes. The current Food from Finland programme aims to double food exports by 20 to 3 billion and to create some 5,000 new jobs. We want continuity and long-term sustainability to be safeguarded instead of current short-term projects. Long-term work on exports of basic products and raw materials must lead to a higher level of processing, exports of added value products. In addition to dairy products, Wrinkle oat is a good example of new exportable domestic innovation. Natural berries, mushrooms, herbs and special natural products up to game are Finland's strengths, which also include considerable export potential. Cross-sectoral cooperation with tourism, for example, is needed. We ticket to product innovations and strong brand stories related to open-minded and unique food. Mr President! The food sector employs nearly 340,000 people. Food production is not a sunset area; we have a very good chance of growth. It must also be applied to the export market with determination. Our food production has the ingredients of the moss. We will see the same development as on the forest side. But the future isn't coming. It's done. The committee believes that the measures set out in the food policy report can increase the added value of the food system. Growth requires profitable primary production. Food safety and high quality must also be ensured in the future. There is a need for a determined reduction in EU and domestic bureaucracy. We emphasise the implementation plan, which will put the objectives into practice. The red thread must be the instillation of a culture of doing together throughout the food chain. Trade must not trample on other players. The good performance of our chefs team can be good for a Finnish cow milker, for example. Finally, in its report, the committee makes the following five statements for adoption, according to which Parliament requires the Government to: 1. to contribute more effectively to the effective and competitive functioning of the food market and, with the necessary legislative measures, to ensuring a level playing field in the market; 2. set numerical targets for reducing food loss in different parts of the food chain and identify the need for renewal of food dates to reduce food loss; 3. more and more systematically in the preparation of EU legislation on the food sector; 4. afford adequate financial and operational resources for the long-term and planned promotion of food and water exports; and 5. facilitates small-scale processing of domestic food and local food. Mr President! This year, Finland’s 100th anniversary year, I am proud of the spirit with which the whole committee wants to increase the appreciation of Finnish food and work for its own country’s food. I hope that the whole of Parliament will be able to agree with that and that we will be able to have new points of view today for the benefit of food operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u71	Mr President! The discussion of the food policy report in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry was very inspiring and forward-looking. I would like to thank Mr Kalmar and the committee as a whole for their good work. For all of us, it is essential to secure domestic food and the livelihood of the farmer and to keep up with the work. The Committee's efforts are a valuable contribution to the report. We want to improve the position of the producer, to ensure the functioning of the food market, to facilitate small-scale processing of local food and to reduce food losses. We have heard widely about food losses and, as stated in the effort, it is necessary to set numerical targets for reducing food losses in the various parts of the food chain and to clarify the need for renewal of food dates in order to reduce food losses. We heard in committee about good models, such as the joint table in Vantaa. In it, the city, church and third sector have jointly created a transport and storage system for the loss food of stores and arranged food for the poor. It has made a good contribution to the community and has helped the underprivileged. I'd like to see a model like this spread across all the municipalities. In order to promote exports and improve the profitability of agriculture, the report highlights research and innovation, but at the same time the government's drastic cuts in education and research undermine the development of new hit products and cuts from the Natural Resources Centre hinder the promotion of bioenergy, which is important for rural areas. For example, the popularity of Shredder oats has shown that there is an order for new products. The Committee's report has therefore emphasised the importance of research. In order to safeguard domestic food production, the profitability of primary production must be improved. Large retailers export too much of the food chain’s output, and new direct sales routes are therefore needed. Food cooperatives that increase the popularity of urban residents are good development. It is also essential to promote the genuine functioning of the food market, and competition law needs to be changed in this direction. Consumers need more organic food, and I hope that the government will make a stronger contribution to promoting organic food. Organic matter reduces dependence on imported fertilisers and fossil fuels used to produce them. The Greens aim to ensure that 20% of the food in public kitchens is organic by 2020. The Finnish Environment Agency's measurements on the research vessel Aranda provide a record amount of algae for the Baltic Sea. Agricultural subsidies must therefore be reformed in such a way as to focus more on ethical and environmentally friendly production and ecosystem services. The regional economy benefits from local agricultural enterprises. The rational recycling of nutrients and the production of local energy by farms are worthwhile objectives. Biogas plants offer a good solution. To promote this renewable energy, a tailor-made support solution from the state is needed. Food is also about animal rights. The conditions of farming animals must be improved by guaranteeing more room for manoeuvre and stimulation and the possibility of species-specific behaviour. The Government's proposal for a comprehensive reform of the Animal Protection Act only responds to the needs of animal protection in a small part. We need to get our animal welfare laws to the Nordic level. Mr President! Eating together is a communal and important moment. Food is valuable, and work has been done on it. Finland and Sweden are the only countries in the world where children are offered a warm meal free of charge in schools. Should a weekly vegetarian day be organised in national schools for the next success story in Finland, which is 100 years old? For all of us, it is important what children eat in day care and in schools, what elderly people eat in nursing homes. Children and the elderly deserve safe, tasty and healthy food. Local government procurement should therefore focus on freshness, health and delivery time and buy food from local producers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u72	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry considers the food waste guidelines to be one of the key points in the food policy report. I would therefore like to thank you for this, and I will concentrate on this area in my speech. In recent years, Finland has been awakened to the debate on food waste at various levels of our society from here to the Chamber of Parliament to the kitchens of consumers, and this is good. As the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, in its report, sums up the situation, the current volume of food loss is unsustainable, both economically, socially and environmentally. In order to reduce food losses, a number of measures need to be taken to address the problem. When food losses occur, hours of work are wasted in addition to food. Emissions from the food production chain have also been generated in vain. In addition to this, we waste food while more than tens of thousands of people in Finland each year are standing on bread lines. Although this waste debate does not solve this poverty and bread queues, it is precisely a better social policy that solves it. However, it is foolish to throw edible food into the garbage without considering its further processing. As the committee points out, it is clear that changes in attitudes and behaviour are needed in order to combat food loss and to increase the value of food. It also points in the right direction to the fact that food loss is a multidimensional problem, and a more active approach must be taken to solve it. In particular, I would like to thank the committee for its second statement, in which it requires that the Council of State "sets numerical targets for reducing food losses in the various parts of the food chain and examines the need for renewal of food dates in order to reduce food losses". I would remind you, therefore, that the objectives of the UN 2030 Round Economy for Sustainable Development for halving food waste are ambitious. According to these objectives, food waste should be halved both at dealer and consumer level by 2030. I would like to ask now that Minister Leppä is here: are these objectives, which should be set for this in Finland, at least so ambitious? The measures proposed by the committee must also be effectively monitored and other measures taken immediately if the amount of food waste cannot be reduced by these voluntary measures. It should be remembered that, at the moment, in Finland, the distribution of waste food is based on a voluntary approach and on various pilot projects, of which Mr Karimäki said earlier, but we have not yet developed a well-established practice. I therefore believe that the whole should also be looked at at at the level of the legislation. I would remind you that we have a bill signed by more than 100 Members of Parliament to address this food waste and to consider how edible foods that are out of circulation or out of circulation can be distributed or used for other purposes. Mr Leppä, the current Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, has promised that the initiative will be properly dealt with. I would like to ask him and also the new chairman of the committee here about the timetable for examining the initiative. It is clear what has also been said here in the debate that there is room for will to resolve the problem. This joint statement, as well as the strong will of the citizens, tells us about it. I would like to remind you that it is still cautiously estimated that some 400 million kilos a year will be lost, and this is a major climate problem corresponding to the emissions of around 100,000 passenger cars. I would hope that, if these voluntary measures are not sufficient, this issue will also be examined through legislation on the basis of the spirit of this legislative initiative. Solving food loss is our common concern both in Finland and in the world — and it is also necessary from the point of view of ecological, social and economic sustainability policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I was just about to say that it is also possible to go to the debat when you only indide it. But let us take a few more speeches on this and then move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u74	Madam President! The Food Policy Report states that the main objectives of the Finnish food system are, among other things, to safeguard and diversify the profitability and productivity of primary production, environmental sustainability and the development of the circular economy — all of which, as stated here, are key and extremely important. Mr President! Over the past decades, Finns have become accustomed to taking food for granted when it has been almost wasted. The importance of domestic agriculture and security of supply has become blurred for people used to the global economy. The idea has taken over the industry that food should only be produced where production is most profitable. The Christian Democrats warn against lulling on the need to obtain affordable food and energy from abroad in all situations. Global population growth, climate change, economic crises, armed and political conflicts can very quickly reduce food production and food supply worldwide. In order to ensure security of supply, we need viable agriculture, decentralised domestic energy production and a vibrant countryside — now more than a long time ago, closed-down sectors and reduced-down food production will not be set on their feet in a moment. Security of supply of essential foodstuffs, production corresponding to national consumption and food supply are safety issues. Mr President! The Christian Democrats want domestic clean food production to be one of the top priorities in political decision-making. That is what we said a year ago when we left the question of agriculture in the middle. This has now been heard in committee and has been very well highlighted in this text of the report. The Committee stresses that improving the current low profitability of primary production must form the basis of food policy. I am particularly pleased that the committee unanimously stated that the poor negotiating position of the primary producer in the food chain is a significant threat to profitable production. The Committee would draw particular attention to the fact that the agricultural market is not functioning at home at the moment and, due to the competitive situation, the potential of farms to improve profitability on market terms is currently limited. In addition to reducing production costs, the role of primary production in the food chain must be strengthened by measures to promote product access to distribution and trade. In addition, the origin labelling of products must be improved and the strengths of Finnish primary production should be better exploited. Consumers, as has been pointed out in these previous speeches, are increasingly keen to ensure that their food is produced and sourced, so these needs must be met. Mr President! I very much welcome the committee's report, which has been produced in a spirit of good cooperation and unanimity. This brings hope to Finnish primary producers and the domestic food industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u75	Mr Anttila, Mr Viljanen, Mr Kulmala and Mr Leppa will take the floor, followed by a debate. — Representative Anttila is absent. — Mr Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u76	Mr President! The report on food policy is commendable, as is the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. At the end of the comprehensive report there are five proposals from the committee. In this speech, I will take a position on the first of them, which reads as follows: 'The government requires that the Government make a more effective contribution to the genuine functioning and competitiveness of the food market and that the necessary legislative measures ensure a level playing field in the market.' Mr President! Currently, the food chain in our country employs directly and indirectly some 340,000 Finns. It is clear that the vast majority of agricultural jobs will not exist in the future if we do not strike a balance in the market, if we do not achieve a fairer distribution of the food supply chain and, therefore, if we do not make agricultural production viable. It is equally clear that in the food chain there are no jobs in processing without Finnish raw material. That is why I attach great importance to this committee's position. If necessary, we need legislative measures to make the food chain work more fairly. Now that we are discussing the food policy report, this message can be summed up: there is no Finnish food without a functioning Finnish society, research, product development, food processing and profitable agricultural production. The unanimous report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry takes a stand in favour of all the above conditions, and we must all commit ourselves to securing the future of Finnish food, which is what this unanimous report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry provides for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u77	Madam President! The Food Policy Report states that the main objectives of the Finnish food system are to ensure and diversify the profitability and productivity of primary production, environmental sustainability and the development of the circular economy. The clear strengths of the Finnish food system have long been the purity, traceability and safety of food, which must be better exploited in the future as competitive factors. These are the things you dream about in many other countries. There is a broad consensus in Parliament on the importance of domestic food production, with a few exceptions. They believe that, among other things, agricultural subsidies should be abolished in Finland, because, despite the subsidies, agriculture is making a loss. But if agricultural subsidies were to be abolished from the world, we would have to pay a great deal more for food than we are paying for at the moment. At present’s world market prices, food production is not profitable anywhere. It must also be understood that agricultural subsidies ensure the availability and adequacy of domestic food and good quality. The importance of quality is emphasised when we know how the value of local food and organic production continues to grow. Agricultural aid is also necessary to help maintain the population of rural areas and to maintain a low level of services. This should not be underestimated either. By the way, did you know that agricultural aid is not farmers' income but a large part of this aid goes to production costs, such as machinery, equipment and fertilisers? These critics of food production do not value the countryside, the work of farmers and the clean domestic food, even though food eats every day. It is easy for them to criticize food producers when they can afford to pay a little more for food. They easily forget that the poor profitability of food production is not the fault of the producers themselves. The restructuring and improved efficiency of our farms will not help either, because Finland has been paying the lowest producer price in Europe for years. Producers’ economies have been hard-hit because low producer prices have no longer covered costs for years. For example, last year cereals produced a loss of between EUR 110 and EUR 220 per hectare, depending on the type of cereals, and it was already the fourth year in a row of losses. Many farmers, and milk producers in particular, are also affected by the sanctions imposed on Russia. This report states that the competitiveness of the domestic food system is based on sustainable, high-quality, ethical and competitive primary production. The maintenance of primary production in Finland is also of paramount importance for the processing food industry and security of supply. The committee also stressed that improving the current low profitability of primary production should form the basis of food policy. It should also be understood in decision-making bodies. There is no way to overemphasize that the safety and purity of Finnish food production are world-class and the absolute strengths of Finnish agricultural production. While eating Finnish local food, the best way to help food producers in their own municipality and province is to help them. Moreover, it is a patriotic activity in every respect. In Finland, increasing the share of organic matter in the public sector seems to be the most challenging. In Sweden, for example, organic food accounts for almost 70% in the public sector and in Denmark for almost 70% in the day-care centre and elderly. At the same time, in Finland, the share of organic matter in the public sector is about 5 per cent. Adding organic matter to the menus would be possible without additional costs for us too by changing our menu and recipes. The key to this menu design would be to increase the share of the cheapest raw materials, such as vegetables and cereal products. More attention should also be paid to food loss. You might ask with a good conscience that if we lose up to a third of the food produced, is food too cheap?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u78	Minister Leppä, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u79	Madam Speaker! Thank you very much to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and its chairman, Mr Kalmar, for an excellent report on the food policy report. It is a very good document and leads us to our united thinking about the importance of food for us Finns. That's actually the basis of everything. It is an important part, an absolute part of our overall security, our security of supply, our every kind of well-being. We can rightly say that food is a human right. If there is no such thing, quite a bit others are unnecessary. In that sense, it is a very good thing that this is unanimous, and here there are big guidelines for what we need to do in our own food production, in our entire food policy and also in European food policy, without forgetting global trends. Thank you for this work. The five withdrawals which the committee has raised here and on which it has made its statements are central: The first is the functioning food market. It is clear that the functioning and functioning of the food market today is not what we would like it to be. That is why it is necessary to pay attention to it. Clearing Officer Ilkka Mäkelä will submit his report on this at the end of this month, and then we will have the time for conclusions, which we will then begin to do in order to make the food market work better and fairer than it is at present. The main problem here is, of course, that primary producers, farmers, have too little share in the food chain, and that problem becomes a weak state of profitability. Above all, it is about work, Finnish work — is it here in Finland, or is it elsewhere? That is of the utmost importance to us. The labelling of origin and also the fact that the origin labelling requirement is now extended to restaurants, so that the consumer is also entitled there to know genuinely what he is eating. Secondly, food waste: It is good that the issue has been raised strongly. Work has been done and is still being done to reduce food losses, above all through voluntary efforts. Legislation has already been made more flexible and guidelines have been made more precise in order to avoid food loss. There are many good examples of this. The food chain has strongly intensified its activities and has taken the matter of reducing this loss of food. But I think that most of them are currently formed there in the home-houses, and in that sense the presentation of education and information practices is a very good part of this. Let us see when the studies are made — they have been started — and when they are completed, what is the situation, if even more drastic measures are taken? But at the moment, we are making strong progress in terms of information and voluntary action. Thirdly, with regard to this EU legislation and the strengthening of its ex ante impact, I fully agree. Particular attention now needs to be paid to the reform of the EU's common agricultural policy and to the post-2020 period and its impact. I will only raise four key issues here, which I believe are the focus of food, the simplification of systems, the improvement of the role of the producer in the food chain and the way in which climate and environmental measures are implemented in a sensible, sustainable way. Fourthly, food exports: Good records of that too. This work must continue. We already have very good examples of exports moving, and this work is being done together with other ministries. Food from Finland and Business Finland have made additional resources for Evira, and more are needed to enable companies to make their own exports. This has been the subject of funding for key projects, and more resources must be made available for this to move forward in a good way. It's obvious. There is also an increasing need for companies to make their own contribution and for companies to do this export effort together. Training in food exports — an extremely important issue: this is where the Ministry, together with other ministries, has begun the efforts to get us to receive export training in this country and to take this work forward. The chairman of the water, Mr Kalmari, made an excellent contribution. That's what's going on, too. It's got to go on. The last point is to facilitate the processing of small producers of domestic local food. Here, too, a number of regulations have already been dismantled, standards have been dismantled, and more of the demolition work is being done. It is also extremely important to combine Mavi and Evira, which is now well under way, and to take it forward in this spirit, that we get the whole idea of being a coach from the supervisor to the whole administration. After all, the Norm dismantling is one of the key government measures and key projects, and it affects our entire food chain in particular. Thank you for your good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u80	Now we can go to the debate on this subject and it will be started by Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u81	Mr President! Thank you for the good and necessary report and the report, and in particular for the strong attention given to food loss. Food is a major source of climate emissions and I missed an even stronger perspective on the requirements for combating climate change for food production and consumption in the future. We would need a strong climate perspective for the future, which would take into account, for example, the need to reduce meat consumption, the spread of insect nutrition and the development of vegetable proteins, their increase and support. Mr President! This role of primary producer and its success and role in the food chain is our joint effort, and that is something that we must all be able to improve and find concrete ways of doing so. One thing is the labelling of foodstuffs and restaurant products, but would the Minister have to adopt and propose other concrete measures to improve the position of the primary producer?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u82	Madam President! The food policy report as well as this report by the committee is extremely good, and it is actually an historic moment for a wide-ranging debate on domestic food production and the details of the food supply chain and so on. There are also these five contributions which have been registered here by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and which the Minister has also done well in his own speech. I understood that these issues were also very welcome in the report. One point here is about these five points, the facilitation of this small-scale processing of domestic food and local food. Here is a question: how can we secure its good, original food from there to the food chain so that there is no extra good raw material in the Honkajoki refinery? This is the idea that we need to find operators, companies that are also able to serve this issue there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u83	Mr President! Thank you to the committee for a very good report, and thank you to the minister for the very convincing start of the ministerial mission. It is also worth mentioning the government's efforts to improve profitability and promote exports. They are the right thing to do. But then a very friendly question in the direction of the SDP, the Greens and the Left: When there is a great deal of talk about profitability, how can the proposals for extending the property tax to agricultural land be compatible with this aspect of profitability, the proposed cuts in national aid and the cancellation of the relief system? It is good that we have a unanimous report and a point of view, but speeches and actions should at least almost go together between parties. I hope that these kinds of speeches and proposals will no longer be made, so that it can be demonstrated in practice that we are all concerned with the profitability of agriculture and the conditions for production, because that is the most important thing in this whole package, that farmers' livelihoods are safeguarded and that agricultural production is profitable. Then the basic starting point of the entire food chain will be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u84	Mr President! The speech by Mr Rantakangas was somewhat surprised when this food policy report was produced in such good cooperation and unanimous agreement. The only thing that can really be said is that this report on food policy does not mention any of these points which you raised, and this was unanimous and there were no objections. As I recall, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has also been unanimous in all these crisis support packages and others, and there has also been unanimity there. Minister Leppä, when the committee finalised this food policy report, we have since visited the Farmari 100 exhibition last week, which was an excellent success. 95,000 Finns visited the Farmi exhibition in four days. I was there for two days. Citizens were very positive about the production of domestic food. There are plenty of families with children who visited the livestock area in particular, the machine presentation and the domestic food at the heart of it. There were hardly any different opinions, and that's a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u85	Madam President! When reports are drawn up and, as is the case here, the Food2030 report, it leans heavily on the future. We need to pay attention to where we can develop. This committee's report has particularly raised the issue of the marketing and export of food, to which the Minister has just referred. With the emergence of new products and markets and with the use of food businesses, sufficient skilled labour and skills must be available to meet the potential in the best possible way. In expert hearings in particular there was a need for these educational needs at university of applied sciences level. I would now like to ask the Minister, when you said here that progress has already been made: what have now been the concrete measures that have enabled this export training, particularly in the food sector, to be taken forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u86	Madam President! The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Government have made a good report, and the committee has dealt with it in very good cooperation. I would like to underline that the opposition has been consulted in the same way as the government parties. I would like to highlight this particular threat to Finland's food policy, namely the poor profitability of the primary producer. It is very clear from the committee's report, and it also says that the most important way, perhaps, of affecting agriculture is precisely market prices. We cannot influence market prices in the global economy, but we can influence them in Finland. We cannot continue to have the purest, safest and best traceability in the whole world — and it goes to the market through billing. That is why this first boost has been put here, and we are all looking forward to the way in which the Minister and the Government respond to this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u87	Mr President! There will be no major decisions in agricultural policy over the next two years. This is also reflected in the Government's guidelines for the mid-term review, which only confirm what has previously been agreed and known. However, Minister Leppä will not be able to make it easy, because although the common agricultural policy is undergoing a certain phase of tolerance, the preparations for the new fund period beginning in 2021 will have to be tight. We have already set up a strategy and steering group for reform. The financial framework and legislative proposals of the EU Commission should be available at the end of 2018. The final decisions should be taken during the second half of 2019 under the Finnish Presidency, but it is not yet known whether there is a willingness to do so due, inter alia, to the change in the EU Commission. The UK's resignation from the EU creates a dramatic financial gap and otherwise makes it difficult. I would like to ask Minister Leppa: have you already had a vision of how, during the next fund period, we will be able to deal with the fact that farmers' incomes will not fall dramatically here in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u88	Mr President! Thank you for a good report and excellently targeted statements. Finnish food is clean and good in quality, and this is important to remember also in promoting tourism. The interest in nature and green care tourism, for example, has been increasing, and Finnish food produced nearby is a good basis for selling green care tourism. I believe that Finnish clean food is also in demand on the world market. So we really need marketing and sales expertise and believe that Finnish food and water is a growing export sector. So we have an excellent product, but marketing and sales know-how are somewhat lame.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u89	Mr President! With interest, I put behind my ear when I listened to the Minister’s comments on this crackdown on standards: the food chain is subject to strong regulation, most of which comes from the EU. However, I would see in the future that a new food distribution chain will change the market as direct sales or direct purchases increase. On the other hand, a new form of participation, such as by allowing consumers to acquire or purchase a holding in the form of their own productive animal or equivalent, and thus conveying their wishes about the production method and the form of production and the product to the producer, will enable consumers to have their food produced as they wish. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister whether the aim is still to dismantle unnecessarily strict regulation in order to allow new forms of ownership to develop and be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u90	Madam President! I too agree with the praises that have been rained in this Chamber, which means that this report is a very good and good tool for all of us in terms of food policy and legislative work. "Man is eating "and"good food, "better mind is familiar with sayings and telling very well what meaning food and food is for us people. Domestic food is indeed of high quality and clean and ethical, and the domestic food chain employs some 340,000 people, and that is a very important issue. We also have food policy challenges that have already been raised here, which means that food self-sufficiency and security of supply must always be guaranteed under all circumstances, food losses must be reduced and origin labelling must also be made clearer for restaurant food and everyone else, and of course we all share the concern for producers' livelihoods and their survival, and we certainly do not want to scrap any system of holidays. I would like to ask you, Minister: how can we get all our plates of domestic vegetables and root vegetables and fruit? For example, could some aspects of taxation be reduced, so as not to reduce the thickness of your wallet?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u91	Madam President! A very good report, and the Minister's supplementary answers were excellent. I would like to draw attention to these key issues: profitability, local local food and export profitability, as well as this waste debate. The date and the loss go hand in hand. I agree with Mr Kalmar's statement that the date should only be in those who are at risk of health. As regards exports and exports to highlight the purity of water and food: It is only part of Finnish exports. Exports must be directed at the masses. No country produces anything but clean food for the people. Our product must have a story, and the story must be branded. Purity is part of that brand, but we are overemphasizing this purity and good water, because it is only export to a small part.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u92	Madam President! First of all, I will answer Mr Nurminen's question as to when the debate on food waste will take place or when this initiative will be dealt with. In fact, we have also heard a great deal of experts on this subject and have already taken this into account in this report. Our common point was that we are moving forward on a voluntary basis, just as the Minister said there, and instead we are raising these good practices and lowering standards so that we can reduce food waste. Food can be disposed of by eating from public kitchens as well as by eating from public kitchens, and many public kitchens, for example, have waste-baiters. Solutions to logistics and distribution of food aid must be found locally. To Sarkkinen, of course, insect food, oil hemp, all new, even oat milk, should be taken seriously, but instead, the future of meat production is actually better in Finland than it is today as a result of climate change, because we have plenty of water and can have profitability in relative terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u93	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank the committee for this good work in extending this debate and for the extensive expert consultation. Perhaps I myself wonder that it is a good thing that the loss has been included in this report and in this report, but I would see that perhaps a separate legislative package could also be considered through this legislative initiative, which could aim even more at these good practices and, in particular, at dismantling standards, not so much at increasing legislation, but in some way as a separate whole it could be promoted and expanded. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once we have set targets for reducing losses: how do you see how ambitious the objectives must now be promoted and what the level of ambition is that, if not achieved, different measures will be taken than these volunteers? How do you see this conversation and its level in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u94	Madam President! Very good speeches have been made here today. However, Mr Karimäki's speech raised the question of what are the more ethical forms of support for agriculture that Mr Karimäki called for in his own speech. It is likely that the desire for more ethical forms of support will be easy to say out here today, but the fair implementation of it in living life may be entirely different. It is a pity that Mr Karimäki has already left this session, but perhaps he will clarify this detail of his speech later. Of course, I can ask: does Minister Leppä know a more ethical support system than this one, what do we have in place?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u95	Mr President! Farmers are concerned about the financing of the last year of this fund period, because the budget for environmental compensation is not sufficient. This is because more money is being spent on protection zones, on the winter cover of fields, on collectors’ plants, and so on. Money can only be found within the Rural Development Programme of Mainland Finland by changing the use of funds. The annual need for environmental compensation is EUR 240 million, of which Finland's contribution is 58% and the EU's 42%. If the environmental compensation could not be paid in 2020, the farmer would lose not only the compensation for the block-specific measures but also the basic compensation for the environmental compensation. Even if the last year of current environmental commitments is 2019, the farmer would, of course, experience a withdrawal from the 2020 environmental compensation in order to fail the promises, and that would be what it would be. Do you have any plans yet to resolve this difficult matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u96	Madam President! Of course, I cannot answer what Mr Karimäki meant with ethical support, but I will answer what I see there. In my opinion, the aid which contributes to the production of good food, specifically the aid which supports production, is indeed ethical.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u99	Mr Kalmari, Mr Wallin and Mr Hautala and then the Minister's speech, then we shall continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u100	Madam President! It was a pleasure to hear that the Minister took up all of our efforts with real progress and is taking them forward. On the other hand, it is certainly good to know that when, for example, the report on the functioning of the food market becomes available and the necessary measures are needed, it will now have Parliament's backs. I would like to ask you again about the export measures. Sometimes these things can be small. We were talking about the whole chain of cooperation here, and I myself mentioned, for example, a cooking team in that speech. Could you think about promoting exports in a new way so that, when there are small targeted needs, it is worth investing in them if we think that the end result may be to withdraw even a large brand for Finnish products?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u101	Madam President! In the course of the expert consultation, we had a visit to the members of the European Court of Auditors under the leadership of Ville Itälä. There we found out what the food waste situation is in the European Union. The expert said that the Nordic countries are taking good care of this issue. Now this EU-UN target for 2030 to cut food waste by 50% means something pretty big here in Finland. But what is your understanding of the situation in Europe? These experts said that in the Nordic countries, however, this was quite well done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u102	Madam President! In his previous speech, Congressman Harry Wall raised the issue of a bottom farm that has reached a harvest of some 10,000 kilos [10,000 kg] per hectare. This means, of course, that the farm must invest not only in technological development but also in precision and precision farming. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry always contains money specifically invested in counselling and has recently been specifically targeted at financial advice. But has the Ministry considered that more and more resources would then be allocated to this technical progress and precision farming? The second question raised here by Mr Nylund on the allocation of aid: have you still taken account of the fact that agricultural production and environmental issues should be more differentiated, which would then allow this aid to be allocated to actual production?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u103	And now, Minister Leppä, five minutes at the most, please. Then let us continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u104	Madam Speaker! Thank you for your excellent questions and comments. I will try to answer as many as I can. Here representatives Sarkkinen and Nylund asked — and many others — what is happening and what is being done, that in the food chain the farmer's position should be improved and thus profitability. I have said before that to the public that since Ilkka Mäkelä, the rapporteur, has presented his report, it is time for conclusions. These are things we will return to before autumn, I will not go ahead with these matters, but at the end of this month that report will be handed over, and then it is time to look at it and draw conclusions from it. Then, in many speeches — Mr Sarkkinen and others — ethical, climate-friendly production came up, and that is the way it is when you look at this European comparison that agricultural food production in Finland, measured in terms of sustainability, is absolutely top-notch. We have environmental compensation schemes, many of which have learned and are here to learn, and yes, it is definitely the case that we are here with our expertise in advantage. Of course, we always have something to develop, but we have to remember that we have to keep in mind that we have to produce that food as well. And the better the harvest, the more it takes from above greenhouse gases than from below nutrients and its spilling environmental effects are smaller. This is what I want to forget. Mr Hakanen asked for measures to promote small-scale activities. They are still doing more, and it is true that they must be such that they are able to cope, and the conditions for profitable activity must be in place. This is a Representative Wallin sought an answer here on how to improve the skills of farmers. That is what we must do in all areas of enterprise, that is clear. This benchmarking between farmers is one of the most important things that ProAgria, for example, is very strongly taking forward through small group work and many other means, by digital means and so on. Mr Hautala asked — and many others also — about training. The Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have started discussions on this issue that how to promote university-level export training can be promoted. There has been a clear interest throughout Finland that it could be arranged by the providers of education, and that is certainly where progress can be made, hopefully. Mr Kiviranta raised the issue of the reform of the new common agricultural policy, CAP 2020. Here comes the big question of Brexit: we can no one know exactly what kind of financial deficit there will be — probably there will be. Otherwise, it is still open with regard to the financial frameworks. We must also be prepared to defend strongly the financial framework that we currently have for food production, agriculture, so that this gap does not arise for farmers. There is a budget gap, we know that. And it's the same thing here, as early as 2019-2020, we're looking at this. In this respect, the preparatory work has begun and we will see how far this can be achieved. But it is clear that we must keep this in mind. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised the issue of co-operation between food, tourism and green care, and here is a big opportunity for rural business, absolutely, there is demand for this around the world no matter how much. Mr Juhani also raised a very important issue in relation to exports, and it is a brand. Without a brand we cannot succeed, it is quite obvious, and that is why, as I said in my speech earlier, we must also find more resources to promote exports and strengthen brands. We need to make additional contributions to these, and a great many of the representatives here also called for this to be done. President! Finally, as regards food loss, studies have been carried out on various parts of the food chain in 2011-2012, but interpretations of what is considered to be food waste varied, and that is why this issue needs to be re-examined. This review, the review, will start in the near future, and then new conclusions will be drawn that what action is needed. And finally, Mr President, food has a price, but food also has value. Our food — produced here in an extremely sustainable way, measured by ethical and environmental standards, salmonella-free, antibiotic-free, hormone-free and so on — must be successful in the world. But export know-how is needed, export efforts are needed and our markets are working more fairly than they are now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u105	Let's move on to the list of speakers. The list of speakers will therefore continue until 6:10 p.m., so we will have time to take some speeches before the debate is interrupted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u106	Mr President! In this speech, I took just one interesting and, in my opinion, important point of view from the report, although there would be much more important talk about this report. I am very pleased that much attention has been paid to food, nutrition and public health in the report. Healthy nutrition can not only prevent but also treat many of our public health problems. It is a question of people's well-being and quality of life, but also of the economy, because many of our public health problems are linked to nutrition. The right diet can be used to prevent, for example, cardiovascular diseases and memory disorders. Of course, people make their own choices, but there are also many policy instruments that can guide choices in a healthier direction. For example, taxation is a good way to steer consumption habits and product development in a better nutritional way. What is crucial is that we make healthy choices as easy as possible for citizens. This requires more information on the health of different product groups and also on unhealthyness and on the other hand making healthy alternatives attractive. Although Finns know a lot about nutrition issues, further information needs to be provided. In addition, the product packaging should have clear labelling of what the product contains and so large in writing that it can be read without a magnifying glass. Local food and organic food should also be easy to find and select for consumers. If organic and local food were readily available, I believe that many Finns want to choose these alternatives. Finnish people are now eating a lot in schools, workplace restaurants and other communal dining places, and therefore the health of these meals can be effectively improved. Studies have already shown, for example, that a small reduction in the amount of salt in mass meals is an important and important measure to improve public health. In mass meals, the use of local food in many ways would also be a contribution to sustainable development, and this would therefore be a topical issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u107	Madam President! The report states that the competitiveness of the domestic food system is based on sustainable, high-quality, ethical and competitive primary production. It is the basis of a total of 340,000 jobs created by the entire domestic food chain and the chain. If primary production is not profitable and its development conditions are lost, the entire Finnish food chain will sooner or later suffer in a tangible way. This has been recognised in the committee's report in clear terms. It calls for the poor profitability of primary production to be the basis of food policy. During this term of government, efforts have been made to find new export destinations for Finnish food. So far, it has been possible to open up the Chinese market to Finnish pork and oats flakes, for example. Thank you very much to the government for promoting these things. It is important to continue this work because the only way to improve the profitability of domestic food production and the conditions for development is to find new markets abroad. Changes in the operating environment have been widely taken into account in the report. Global population growth, climate change, increasing extreme weather phenomena, changing farming conditions and, for example, the threat of crop damage caused by plant diseases or pests pose growing risks on the international food market. In this situation, it is also important for Finland to take care of its own food security. At each stage of food production, diverse product development and research work is carried out. The mechanisation of primary production and the development of production methods continue despite the difficult profitability situation. The product development of the processing staircase is constantly driving the industry forward as new products enable a higher level of processing to be achieved. In the area of lactose-free dairy products, for example, Finland is one of the world's leading producers. The productisation of new food innovations is invaluable for the development of the food industry. Development work is also being done to improve food sustainability, traceability and cleanliness. Mr President! Appreciation of food has been taken as one of the themes of this report. There is indeed a reason for this, because Finnish food combines a number of worthwhile and globally unique factors. Finnish food is proven to be the cleanest food in Europe. That is what the European Food Safety Authority has given us confirmation by naming our food as the cleanest in Europe. We use very few antibiotics, we do not feed the animals untenable soy, we do not practice genetic modification and we take care of the welfare of the animals individually. There's nowhere else we can do this. Madam President! This report gives a good indication of the development of the entire food chain in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u108	Madam President! Good speeches and reports have been used here and there have been good arguments as to how, as Mrs Hautala said last time, there has been an increase in appreciation. Yes, this debate and this report will bring value to the whole producer chain, to the whole food industry. But this profitability, as Mr Nylund has pointed out here, is precisely the starting point — that jobs in the entire food chain will be secured by the profitable primary production and that we will also have a policy of support in the future in the direction that will also safeguard the work of future generations on farms there. What can then be done to influence this aid package, and of course the preparation is now fully under way for a new agricultural policy. It must be influenced in every way that can be done, and I also encourage Minister Leppää to always spend time making it better and more constructive. As has also been pointed out here, we still have to look at this increase in the possibility of coupled subsidies, because it is the real thing that brings the value of ethics and added value in the eyes of the consumer. On the whole, this improvement in the food chain and what liquidator Mäkelä is doing right now — which the Minister also pointed out is that by the end of this month this study will be completed — and the conclusions we expect the Minister to draw will be quite strong, Minister, because we also need rapid action to make this chain more profitable and better distributed incomes. Then I will take one more question to the Minister: in one sentence, the current animal protection situation, animal welfare, and in this Chamber, the representative of the Greens, Mr Karimäki, pointed out that he still believes that the animal protection legislation currently being prepared does not come to the Nordic level. I completely disagree, and I would like to ask the Minister for the position that the legislation that is being drafted is getting to a very high point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u109	Mr President! In March, the Food Policy Report to Parliament has been discussed at length and in depth in the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The committee heard more than 40 experts. The understanding and vision of Finnish agriculture, the importance of domestic food and food production and the future of Finnish food was clear. The report was given due consideration in committee, because Finnish food is a matter common to all the members of the committee and we want to promote it. The committee understood that 340,000 jobs in the food chain and 15 billion in value added to the national economy produced by the food sector are not small or unitary. It is important to understand that agriculture is not something that can be transferred abroad from Finland, because the profitability, development, maintenance of domestic production in Finland is a security and security of supply issue that cannot be compromised. Mr President! Food and food policy involves a huge number of things from export to health issues, from education to the welfare of farm animals, without forgetting research and product development. Food is business, it's politics, and it's also a way for people today to separate themselves and tell them about themselves. Food is fuel for the human body, which unfortunately is too many Finns have to pick up from the food queues. Food security is also a global issue. Climate change will increase crop fluctuations and famines, as well as the lack of clean water, and this will also provide a breeding ground for extreme thinking. Western abundance, disregard for people, and the huge ranges of stores that are constantly available cause food loss, which has become a hot topic for food discussion and a question of responsibility. The committee therefore dealt with the means and needs of reducing losses in depth and with merit. The report sets out the precise steps that will be taken to combat losses more effectively. First of all, we need indicators and clear numerical targets, so that we know the exact amount of losses and we can see how different measures will bite. The labelling requirements for food labelling must be reduced, as Mr Kalmari also said. The methods of distributing food aid must be improved in accordance with, among other things, the Vantaa model. The objective of the UN and the EU Commission is to halve the loss by 2030. The objective is ambitious but achievable. The development of legislation must also be included in the waste debate if voluntary measures are not exhausted. Mr President! Appreciation of food: Generations who have not experienced deprivation or scarcity in the way that those born in the first half of the 20th century have experienced it naturally view food differently. They have always had plenty or at least enough food available for them, and that is a good thing. Appreciation of food starts from home education from a young age. Schools and day care centres also play a major role. Free and healthy eating in schools and day care centres is a Finnish speciality, which has both a nutritional, educational and equal value for children. Free quality food must be maintained even in the tight economic situations that municipalities face. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the committee in particular, and Mr Kalmar in particular, for his good cooperation. It is good to move on from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u110	Mr President! The Government's report on food policy is courageously aimed at the future. In accordance with the committee's report, the objectives set out in the food policy report can be regarded as being essentially in the right direction. Food is a daily and important matter for everyone. We should all have an opinion on food and food production. Each of us could spend a moment wondering what kind of food we want and how we can eat in the future. The clean, animal-welfare production method in Finland should be clearer for everyone than ever. Unfortunately, this is not the case. According to the studies, the main criterion for food supply remains price. There is little interest in the way in which production is produced or in the transparency of production. From the point of view of domestic clean food production, this bulk production is not encouraging the current responsible production method. For all of us, this should be a wake-up call. Is domestic food production too expensive for the whole chain because producers are constantly struggling with too low producer prices and consumers still consider domestic food too expensive to buy? Domestic food is known to be clean and first class traceable. Finnish pigs still have pigtails and Finnish chickens still have beaks. They too should have a value and a price in the formation of food prices. Mr President! In order to maintain future food production, investment in education and research is increasingly important. Agriculture requires more entrepreneurial qualities, strict cost monitoring and marketing skills. They can be met by adequate training. A clean production method that takes animals into account must also be made more effective on the export market, in addition to the good efforts already made. Training can also increase marketing skills. By investing in research, new production methods, forms of ownership and automation allow very different ways of producing food compared to the current ones. In its report, the Committee stresses the importance of new automation technology solutions. In the field of the future, if not the tractors now running on their own, then at least the submissive machines will run under a man - controlled main machine. In livestock farming in particular, automation and technological development continue to revolutionise production practices and job descriptions. This, too, will require more and more reform of the content of education and training in order to ensure that there will continue to be experts in a new technological environment and operating methods. The use of bold technology must also be made possible without unnecessarily strict and over-pre-emptive regulation. Many good ways of improving efficiency want to be effectively registered with proactive legislation and meticulous, even patronizing, guidelines. Mr President! In its report, the committee has unanimously added five statements. In line with the first statement, I personally attach importance to the genuine functioning of the food market and to a more balanced competitive position on the market. It is central to the future of the whole industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u111	There is still time for one more speech. Representative Laukkanen is gone and representative Juhantalo is gone, so it is used by representative Nylund.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u112	Madam President! The value of food has risen. We see it in many different ways, and the food policy report is one of them. We have strong trends in Finnish society: origin marking is visible, purity is appreciated, local food is appreciated, organic food is growing year after year, direct sales are growing. They are all good trends, and they are real, they can be measured. But an even stronger trend, a much stronger trend, is a so-called cheap food trend, and it affects the profitability of the primary producer much more. It is very good if food chains and trade manage to reduce their own margins, but unfortunately this is not always the case. If we look at, for example, the profitability of the retail chains, it has even increased in recent years, even though the price of food has fallen. Why? Because the competition doesn't work the way it's supposed to. It has been raised in the debate and has also been raised in scientific research. Both investigations by competition and consumer authorities and studies by PTT have revealed that trade exercises dominance in the chain and sometimes even little is acceptable. That is why, just as the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry now says in its statement, we need legislative measures. What they are, we see. We wait first, just as the Minister says, for the report by liquidator Ilkka Mäkelä. But something has to be done, otherwise the whole base will fall from the Finnish food chain. If the primary producer does not succeed, if the profitability of the primary producer does not increase, we will not have food workers and food imports will increase. We can't afford it. Now is the time for action, and I am therefore very pleased that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also raised this specific programme of measures in its report, which will follow after this parliamentary debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u113	This is where the debate and the proceedings are suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u114	The debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue. Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u115	Madam President! I just want to talk a little bit more about this creation. In other words, the aim of the organic development programme is to increase organic production, diversify the range of domestic organic products and improve the availability of organic food in retail stores and professional kitchens. The entire government is behind the organic programme. In April of this year, Evira banned the Yellow Wing slaughterhouse, which slaughtered organic broilers, from marketing slaughtered broilers as organic. The ban will remain in force until the end of this year. Finland stresses that food should not be wasted. In my view, the authority's discretion in this matter has been compromised if the birds end up being destroyed. There is also demand for organic products in the domestic market, although it is more expensive and therefore more difficult to sell. As early as 2013, organic broiler production and consumption exceeded 100 million kilos, i.e. a significant production group. Organic broiler is also exported abroad. In January 2017, Organic Invest acquired a significant chain of stores in Hong Kong. The company also exports organic broilers to Germany, Denmark and Spain. The reduction in the slaughter of organic broilers in Finland also significantly weakens exports abroad. Although organic production is on the rise, I see a very large number of threats to producers, to which the government should take a firmer stance and improve their position by all legal means. I would ask the Minister how the production of organic broiler is to be constantly safeguarded, but when he is not there, I will ask him another time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u116	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u117	Mr President! I propose that this bill be rejected. I would argue that (a) the role of our MPs is to work to promote equality and equality between people and to promote employment, and this law does not treat people equally and equally across Finland, but to divide citizens according to whether they live in the territory of the early distribution company or not, and then, on three days and five days, others receive distribution. And (b) this does not promote employment, but this bill makes thousands more unemployed in Finland, and Today’s full-time postal workers are at risk of becoming part-time workers, which means that people’s livelihoods are deteriorating. And (c) this law is not in line with the EU Postal Directive: for as yet, it has been seen in the EU that postal services are a basic service for people, and the directive provides that the minimum requirement is five days' delivery. One more thing, Mr President: the transfer of the address register in connection with this bill is also very questionable. In this way, anyone who becomes a postal entrepreneur gets access to the addresses of all of us Finns, and we do not think that the addresses of people are a commodity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u118	Madam President! Unfortunately, this proposal, called the reform of the Government Postal Act, will further accelerate the decline in postal services. The reform will slow down distribution and destroy jobs. In addition, citizens are placed on an unequal footing on the basis of their place of residence. With regard to the government's employment objectives, as Mr Tavitsainen has already said, this reform will make thousands of Post employees unemployed in the future. When distribution dates are reduced in part of Finland, this proposal for a directive will also lead to deviations from the directive — not everyone has been able to deviate during this parliamentary term, but this is the case. I myself think like Mr Taavitsainen that the post must be collected and distributed five days a week all over Finland in the name of equality between citizens. Equal services for citizens in postal services cannot depend on the business decisions of private operators. Tomorrow, in this Chamber, when we take a vote, each of us will have reason to think about how this law will actually become a reality in the field. I am in favour of Mr Tavitsainen making a motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u119	Mr President! I thank you for this proposal, which has been made. We have made certain changes, minor refinements in committee too, and I believe that this is the law that is the best possible in this current situation to take forward. Congressman Tavitsainen said that this is different for people. I myself am the person of the most remote rural area and I do not think that this will discriminate against people, certainly not. Very few Finns will notice any difference in the current situation. The only difference is that the delivery of first-class mail will slow down from the current situation, but very few will receive first-class mail because it has decreased very much. Ten percent a year is reduced by the number of letters with postage stamps, i.e. a postal service in accordance with the universal service obligation. Digitalization has changed our postal behaviour very much. That is why we need to make certain changes to these postal matters. In the future, all Finns will be in a position to receive newspapers, many kinds of mail five days a week. This law makes it possible for people in remote rural areas to receive this mail all weekdays a week. Without such a change and without these things, the more remote countryside could have come into a more difficult situation. This law, together with the traffic cycle, also allows for a more diverse business activity in rural areas, especially in remote areas. So, thanks for the show. According to this, it's good to go from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u120	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u121	Madam President! The motion proposes to amend the hunting law, and this is a lot of good. The main objective of the amendment is to update the provisions on hunting. Unfortunately, at this stage, I have to say that the objective did not quite succeed as it should have been — probably no one thought we would be able to achieve it. Article 33 of the Hunting Act was reformed during the previous parliamentary term. In the explanatory statement of the law, there is a record of the food bait — that is, the fields of grain, game fields, game pastures — that makes it very difficult to comply with the law in hunting. You can start hunting for bears from the grain field, but you must not shoot the bear in the crop field, where the harvest is not yet harvested. From the game pasture, the game field or their proximity to the bear hunt shall not be initiated. It is interpreted by law as the use of a food inducer. I think that this interpretation is too strict. I believe that these food baits should be allowed for the bear. It would make the work of the authorities easier because there would be no difficulty in interpreting, and this would make it easier to hunt bears near settlements. For example, a dog does not know what a food inducer is. The dog walks his own path and may as well find the bear's trail near the field. After this, the bear will be shot further away from the field, and the hunter will easily commit a hunting crime. Bear hunting often includes hunting areas where there are grain fields, game pastures and game fields within short distances. In such an area, bear hunting is unnecessarily difficult under current legislation. One of the main problems with bear hunting is that this proximity to game pasture or game field is not specifically limited by the hunting law or regulation. So is the proximity 50 or 500 meters or something else? In some provinces, the police are already asked to interpret in advance. Even if this police officer has never hunted, he should make a decision when asked about it, even if the police are not a lawmaker. However, in the event of a potential hunting crime, the police are both the instigator and the perpetrator of the pre-trial investigation. The police may give a different answer to the hunter when asking for metrics in each province because they do not have separate instructions for interpretation. This is not in line with the principles of equality and equity of hunters. This game field should definitely have been amended in the reform of this law. Unfortunately, here too, too, we listened too much to the ministry's officials and there was no reform in this regard. The second point, which is quite important and which has not been amended by this law, is the requirement for a single hunting area for white-tailed deer. Under existing legislation, hunting for white-tailed deer requires, among other things, a single area of at least 500 hectares. In southern and western Finland in particular, uniform hunting grounds are small and hunting is therefore impossible, even though white-tailed deer populations are very abundant. The abundance of the species is also seen as deer cola in traffic in these areas. The requirement for a large unitary hunting area puts landowners and hunting associations in an unequal position. In accordance with the lease agreements, the Hunting Association may have large areas at its disposal, but it does not necessarily accept new members and does not agree to a joint authorisation procedure with integrated landowners. A landowner with a single area of less than 500 hectares is not entitled to catch permits even if the white-tailed deer stock is strong in the area and the granting of fishing authorisations would otherwise be justified. The single area of landowners not included in the joint permit may therefore be too small, making the area unfit for hunting whitetails, even if the total area of the holding consisting of separate parcels exceeds the required quantity of 500 hectares. I believe that the requirement for a single area is justified in the case of elk, but not in the case of other elk, and this requirement should have been removed in the case of a white-tailed deer. Unfortunately, here too, too, we listened too much to the ministry's officials and there was no reform in this regard. We parliamentarians have forgotten the important fact that we must listen to experts, but we are all lawmakers, all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u122	The 20th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 13/2017 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u123	Partly, in part, for the second reading, presents the 21st item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 14/2017 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u124	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 22nd item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 15/2017 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-20-ps-73.u125	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 23rd item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 16/2017 vp will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
