ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u1	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u2	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Business Registration Act. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the changes proposed in the Government's proposal are necessary in order to fulfil the national implementation obligation of EU regulation, although the actual impact of the legislative changes on the activities of public authorities is very limited. The government wants the law to enter into force as a matter of urgency, and in this respect too, the EU requires a European practice from Finland. However, Helsingin Sanomas, for example, was 29.4. The statement made by EU parliamentarian Sirpa Pietikäinen that this is not true and that Finland still has the right to maintain the current system. The situation is the same as in 2015 [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u3	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 4/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u4	Mr President! The Audit Office has provided Parliament with a report on its own activities. The procedure is based on the status laid down in the Constitution of the Audit Office. There is a desire to safeguard the independence of the agency, so it is not connected with the Government, but is here in Parliament. The annual report shall be submitted to ensure that Parliament is able to assess the success of the Agency's activities and also the content of its reports and reports to the public and Parliament. I saw you this time, too. The committee has gone through this Agency's activity report with all its observations and notes that the committee has no particular comment on the general functioning of this agency. On the other hand, the committee has gone through two major issues of greater social importance. The first concerns business subsidies, and then the second is about industrial cooperation in the Air Force fighter project. First of all, these corporate subsidies. The Audit Office has carried out a more thorough report on this subject and it has been public for some time now. The committee has gone through this report and the findings of experts in the report with great care, both with the authorities, with the researchers and with other experts. And this deserves to be carefully assessed and discussed, as was mentioned in connection with, among other things, the spending limits debate, and this has been a major theme for the whole of the year and the end of autumn. Some of the Committee's conclusions deserve to be noted here. Firstly, there are undeniable shortcomings in the development of the business support system. They seem to lack a comprehensive and impact assessment approach. The question is not only what is being used, but also what the real impact of these company subsidies has been. It is also a fact that, when these subsidies have been created over a very long period of time, they are a large, fragmented and difficult to manage entity. In addition, new forms of aid have been launched without an analysis of when these support measures could end, whether at some point there is a situation where the objectives can be found to have been achieved and these can be put to an end. A more detailed study has also shown that the arguments for many aids are, in any case, outdated and deserve to be assessed. And then we know that there are many critical expert assessments of this. In the Committee's view, greater attention should be paid to identifying the actual effects of aid, using research data to improve the development of the business support system, to obtain an adequate assessment of the size and allocation of aid and also to reduce the adverse effects of such aid. It is of particular importance that business subsidies should better support the renewal of business life and the new driving forces of growth. This has been mentioned many times here, and there is considerable agreement on this. From this point of view, the problem is that the appropriations for research and development have decreased, that is to say, the appropriations for new creation have decreased. The same has happened in companies, and their own product development inputs have also decreased. In other words, both sides of society and companies have had the same trend over the last few years. And it is also noted that companies' investments focus more on product improvements than new ones, i.e. on improving old products than on new product development, rather than on new ones. The decrease in these investments may have weakened Finland’s innovation capacity and the achievement of the objectives set for industrial and innovation policy. The committee's expert consultation has pointed out that the relative share of innovation policy in the allocation of aid has declined, and the experts have criticised this allocation of business subsidies. This, of course, reflects the difficulty that, on the one hand, we are in a situation where we would like to reduce this support field and, on the other hand, when we do so, we quickly come up with estimates of whether the reduction targets have been correct in relation to this very new creation. This applies, among other things, to the reduction in appropriations from Tekes, which has been the engine of growth for us. The committee therefore records these shortcomings. That did not solve this problem either, but perhaps this committee's report is a boost to the fact that this debate must definitely continue and, in this respect, aim for conclusions that would then also be effective in terms of the allocation of aid. The second package, which the committee has been working on in particular, then concerns industrial cooperation in this HX fighter project. The starting point was that this is a very important package of billions in economic terms. Of course, it has a major impact on defence capabilities and then also on industrial cooperation and the role of Finland's own defence industry, and then, in particular, on how to ensure security of supply in a time of crisis in order to maintain such an advanced weapon. This is a complex, big issue. The committee considered that it was justified to go through this in advance and not to see more than EUR 10 billion of money tied up and then to see where that money went. In other words, even before this decision is taken, Parliament would be involved in this debate in good time and would also look at the experiences of previous projects. On this basis, the Audit Office has carried out a very good and thorough study of this issue, which has covered the previous counter-trading procedure, in the context of the previous fighter project, the Hornet procurement decision, in the early 1990s. We have seen what this is, after all, in the form of these so-called counter-trades and how this monitoring has been organised. The general observation is that this monitoring in relation to the overall evaluation of counter-trades has not been very accurate and not very scientifically managed nor has it been subject to an overall assessment by society or decision-makers. When this deal was made, there was a lot of attention and a lot of talk about these counter-trades, but once the years have passed, this subject has been forgotten. The audit agency's report is, in many respects, quite critical. It draws attention to the fact that these negative effects, including the fact that counter-trades have led to an increase in the purchase price — the supplier has clearly put some of this counter-trade work at prices — have not been given sufficient attention. And then the Agency is also critical of how this practical cooperation within the authorities has taken place. Now the regulations have changed, so the corresponding counter-trade procedure is no longer possible, even if we want to do so. However, it is a question of industrial cooperation, and these are at a stage of change in Europe as a result of the decisions taken by the European Union on this matter. This industrial cooperation can no longer focus primarily on the promotion of the economy and employment, on the economic aspects, but only on safeguarding the functioning of defence. It is important that this change is understood in Finland. The committee's consultation has shown that, however, the procedures for implementing this EU regulation are once again very different from one country to another. There are quite a lot of countries — not specifically named — which are not very literally taking this issue into account. It is, of course, based on the interest of keeping our own defence industry as viable as possible, with a wide range of needs and objectives. Of course, some are related to the defence capability and this security of supply aspect, but there is no doubt that some EU countries are also acting on the basis of protecting their own national economy. After consideration and expert consultations, the committee has concluded that this industrial cooperation plays an important role in ensuring security of supply. It can be said that the committee's report in this respect is more understanding of industrial cooperation than the inspection agency's report was in principle. Industrial cooperation will also increase some of the costs that are reflected in this final price: it is estimated that between 5% and 12% can be said. The committee's conclusion is that, precisely because of this fact that this is going to be an additional cost, this motive and implementation of industrial cooperation must be carefully thought out. It's an investment in a credible defense. If, in times of crisis, security of supply is affected, of course, this multi-billion-dollar purchase will not be of equivalent benefit. But it is equally important that we have seen in advance what category these costs can be, and we must consider that the part that comes as a counterpart will then, in turn, exceed the costs of industrial cooperation which may be included in the purchase price by the supplier. So this too must be done in a cost-effective way and the benefits must be higher than the costs, this is the conclusion of the committee. The committee sees that industrial cooperation has a positive impact on the economy and employment and can also have an impact on reducing the cost of maintenance and maintenance after procurement, i.e. that, if done correctly, we will receive maintenance and maintenance costs for this big project at a lower cost, and that this can also create conditions for the development and internationalisation of the defence industry. The author, who is necessary for the survival of his own defence industry and the security of supply associated with it, must also have customers outside Finland's borders. The Committee's conclusion on all of this is that, while it advocates the involvement of industrial cooperation in this project, it considers that a better cost and impact assessment and monitoring is necessary to assess the usefulness of the project. The committee's report is unanimous and I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their participation in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u5	Madam President! Two important topical issues have been examined by the committee in the context of this debate. Just a few words to begin with about this industrial cooperation: That has also been discussed in the Committee on Budgets, in the context of the debate on the defence policy report. I could say that, in the light of the debate in the Administrative and Security Section there, that conclusion is likely to be somewhat along the same lines as in this report by the Audit Committee, i.e. that understanding of this industrial cooperation and its importance is, however, at a slightly higher level than according to this report by the National Audit Office. And as far as the costs are concerned, it was suggested, for example, on the part of the defence industry that some of these estimates of costs might have been seen to be quite high in this report by the National Audit Office. President! This second point — business aid — is also very topical. I think it is important that attention be paid to this again in this context. I am sure I can easily agree with what has just been said here and what the committee has said, that, since this is a fairly large package overall, there must be more of this comprehensiveness, more evaluation, more reflection on how to target these aids specifically on new innovations. Of course, there is also concern that, overall, these R & D funding, both for the State and then for companies, is very modest today. But, President-in-Office, this business aid issue is also linked to this debate on the framework, of course, because, prior to the debate, the government parties were very hard-pressed to say that action is now being taken and that there is a great deal to be done to reduce and target business subsidies. In this respect, of course, it can now be said that this 'punch', which was also in public, also appeared from this point of view. There was no reform of the family leave, there was no employment measures, but there was no focus on these subsidies for businesses in connection with this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u6	Madam President! The SDP seems now to be pleased with this snuggle-sniffing word. With regard to business subsidies, however, it must be said that I do not believe that the kind of celebration that Mrs Viitane referred to in her speech did take place in advance. But it is true and it must be admitted that, in terms of saving and using these funds more appropriately, there were expectations and also expectations among the MPs of our government parties. I admit quite frankly that, for example, I myself have been disappointed that the government was not able to move forward on these business subsidies. But don't throw an axe in the well. The budget debate in the summer will be the next stage in which these will be critically assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u7	Mr President! I will continue to say that discontent can be shown by the lack of courage to intervene in our business subsidies. We have just made public an official report on the effectiveness of business subsidies, and only 10% of our business subsidies are such that they contribute to this renewal of business. In that regard, it is necessary to assess which company aid actually distorts the market, in fact prevents its ability to regenerate, because we may be helping precisely those companies that are inefficient or those products or services for which there is simply no market demand. Looking at the state of central government, where the debt limit of 120 billion will be exceeded in the next spending limits period, and when we are still talking about debt every year, there is no reason not to clean up our business support system with the utmost care, and above all we need to see how the money is allocated to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u8	Madam President! It is, of course, a good thing that two speeches have already been made here from the Government Party's delegation, which admitted that it was disappointing that this whole package was not reached at this stage. Yes, I continue to say that the advance speeches were hard and the expectations were hard. In that respect, I do not think that the word 'pussy' is exaggerated at all, quite the contrary. All in all, I hope now, once again referring to the autumn, that it will not always be the same as it has always been so far in all matters — family leave, employment measures, everything — that we say in advance that we are going to do this and then we do not do it. For example, we have evidence from the last period that, together with Mr Ihalainen, we looked at business subsidies in such a way that there were re-targets: there was a reduction from something, but there was more investment in innovation support for commercial media through this. You can do something like this if you want to. In this respect, I am also very disappointed, like Mr Lauslahti and Mr Zyskowicz, that in this context:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u9	Madam President! The important thing is not to throw the baby away with the bath water. Business grants have certainly had a great deal of good work and significance in Finnish history. When the Development Fund was set up, it was precisely its task to look at regional development. Since then, development has gone further into more general business support, and membership of the European Union in particular has changed this situation very much. It is essential that the regions be able to look at what is their own strategy for regional development and industrial policy, and then allocate the resources, for example through the European Union Regional Development Fund, to those areas which employ, create new ones and thus increase the status of each region. It is so easy to talk about corporate subsidies that they distort competition. They are probably doing this in some way, but what is essential is that a goal is set. If, for example, it is regional development, then even corporate subsidies have their own meaning and must be supported. I am not disappointed that these tax subsidies and others could not be tackled in this round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u10	Mr President! This is a big issue, and there's a lot of money going on here. Business subsidies may be calculated in total as a pot of about EUR 4 billion, it is a large amount of money. Depending on the method of calculation, there are EUR 2 billion of direct payments, perhaps EUR 1.3 billion, and then there are these tax subsidies, which are perhaps EUR 2.7 billion — depending on what is calculated for tax subsidies. So it is a big entity, and it has become clear that touching it and reorienting it is not easy — while experts are wide urging it to do so. And now I think we should do this gut job. After all, it was a working group of officials who did this groundwork, but who then did not get to publish its work before the spending limits argument. However, the committee also listened to these experts, who have done this official work, and it has been known to everyone, including the government, so this clay is still waiting for its logger.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u11	Madam President! Indeed, the report by the Committee on Audit, partly in connection with the report by the Committee on Finance, has, among other things, examined aid for companies, and that is a good thing. It can also express the hope that, although they are now published in the annex to the budget, transparency could increase. In addition to business subsidies, we have, for example, the support of interest groups, in a certain way double aid for companies, which apparently also amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars as a whole. In other words, this whole should be clarified openly, and at the same time, as Mr Rossi said, remembers that there is also a specific purpose for these company subsidies, including employment. Today, again, it was announced that orders for 2 billion ships were strengthened in Turku, which is also partly dependent on business subsidies. Without these state guarantees, these shipping orders would obviously not be available in Finland, and yet they are very important. So this work continues, and I think it is a good thing that tax subsidies are now firmly on the table when the government is doing its job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u12	Madam President! Mr Ala-Nissilä is obliged to say that company aid to the shipyard itself always includes innovation, and even where it is being built, these new innovations are being created and have a particularly important employment significance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u15	Mr President! This is a very interesting activity report, and I read this section on the conditions for business with particular care, of which I now have a few words. The aim here is to draw attention to the fact that the role of society in relation to industrial policy is to be a builder of the conditions: it does not choose winners or those who are doing well in the world as such, but creates conditions. But for those conditions to be built, it must be based on the researched knowledge and must always be made impact assessments so that the support and measures are credible. In this context, I drew particular attention to the fact that the financing of our exports, to which this report refers, has faced quite major challenges because the role of banks as sponsor has changed. In this respect, export guarantees have played a very important role in terms of export trade. It is estimated that it will rise by 19 billion even from this point of view. On the other hand, it is a good sign that exports are pulling, but there are concerns behind it. If you look at where it is directed, then these export guarantees for the very narrow sector, for the shipbuilding industry, which is great but also tells us how vulnerable our exports are. And it follows that we should certainly make the opportunities for SMEs, medium-sized growth companies to become more international and networkable. We have had the idea of setting up such a base company, which supports the cooperation and internationalisation of these small and medium-sized enterprises. Then it draws attention to the fact that even in public procurement, these innovative procurements are not given much attention, although the government programme also refers to the need for a certain number of them. However, there is more than 30 billion dollars in distribution and more innovative procurement is needed. Finally, this business aid issue. We, as a party, have also carefully prepared the criteria and views on the development of business subsidies, and we will shortly publish them. It is good that this is now treated as such as a large entity. The experience of the last government period is that these cuts in business subsidies are not easy solutions: 250 million were ripped out, targeted, as Mr Viitanen said, in other places, but it is quite demanding work. And that is where its basic thinking must be to support primarily the creation of a new one, research and product development. As a matter of principle, the aid is primarily temporary and not, in a sense, permanent. There are many good criteria to be found to support exports and all this new construction. And now that these business subsidies, including Tekes' subsidies, have fallen, it has meant that companies will also reduce R & D investments in the same proportion. Comes like this like a negative twist, and this needs to be turned around. Although the government now increased the funding of Tekes by 70 million in its spending limits, 140 million minuses still remain there when these cuts are taken into account. That we should make new assessments on this side, and we will be constructively proposing our own business support criteria with a view to preparing for the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u16	Mr President! A few comments on Mr Ihalainen's excellent speech: Innovative procurement is a very important part of our renewal and the way in which we stimulate the public sector. In the context of the spending limits debate, it was decided to allocate some additional money to these innovative procurements. Of course, you can always ask whether it is enough, but at least a good start. With regard to the second question, it is a great thing that the SDP is considering these criteria. It is worth considering which business subsidies will create the new future, the new industries, and which business subsidies will actually preserve the old one, which should naturally be stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u17	Mr President! It is interesting to know this information, mentioned by Mr Ihalainen, that the SDP is doing its own business aid programme — I did not know it in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the great committee is now beginning. But the replies from the representatives Mr Hoskonen and Mr Viitanen will be made, and then this debate will have to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Two brief points: As far as company subsidies are concerned, I do not really like the way in which we Finns flogged ourselves, as if we were trying to be more papal than the Pope himself, that company subsidies were not supposed to be needed or had no credit for them. There will probably be something to clean up, it is true, but let us not all judge if we want to keep up with the international competition. Throughout Europe, industry is being supported by large-scale industries. Let us take a brief example: Germany supports coal, EUR 2 billion a year is being pushed into coal use, and we here with a clear eye are against peat and many other things and are trying to be papal. The second point is this industrial cooperation, which relates to the future trade in fighters. The experience from the last store was good. That is no longer possible, but it is important to note that we need industrial cooperation to keep up with this world. The committee's position on this issue is very much to be welcomed. I only hope that, here too, we will stand up for the country and ensure security of supply, and we do not have the blue eye to believe that we are the worst in the world. We're good, but we can't shoot ourselves in the foot.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u24	Madam President! As I said, these Friday sessions are very good in many respects. Now we know that the SDP is making these criteria, which is useful work,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u27	Mr Lauslahti, one more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-05-ps-49.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, these Friday debates are the best, and in that respect I can say that it is a good week to decide otherwise, and then there will be plenty to think about on the weekend evenings. To go back to this basic research: we have this same subject raised in the meeting as a concern, that we need to pay more attention to our basic research and to the fact that there is sufficient funding, because there may be innovations that we may not even know about, which will be surprising, to say the least. Let's just take the fact that when you've been in Cern with our people, you can say Higgs particle, then you've invented measuring devices that are just for a commercial purpose. That basic research should be vindicated.
