ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u2	Mr President! The overall reform of the current Mining Act was carried out after thorough preparation in 2011. The main objective of the law is to ensure the conditions for mining and exploration in line with the principles of sustainable development. The law takes into account the requirements of civic engagement, the empowerment of municipalities and the realisation of legal security. However, experience has shown some authorisation procedures to be oversized and unnecessarily burdensome. The main changes in the proposal concern the mining safety permit, ore exploration permit and the timing of the necessary clarifications. However, the proposal does not alter the content of the permit assessment or the content requirements of the application. The need for a mining safety permit is evident when a new mine is authorised. Where additional areas are needed for a well-functioning mine, the use of the site does not necessarily imply the need for a new mining safety permit procedure. The need for a mining safety permit could therefore be assessed on a case-by-case basis when granting a mining permit. With regard to the mining safety permit procedure, the law is also proposed to be amended so that the mining authority would request the necessary opinions from the public interest authorities in its field of activity, i.e. the law would not list the pronunciations. This would avoid unnecessary referrals that burden the authorities, and the law would be flexible in view of future changes in the state administration and the public administration. The procedure for submitting an application for a permit to search is similar to that for a new permit to search. We are proposing to turn the waiver procedure into a notification procedure. This would provide legal clarity as to the date on which the waiver will take effect. There would be no consultation on the handling of the waiver notice, which would have an impact on the costs incurred by the company and on the workload of the authorities. The transition to the notification procedure would not alter the liability of the holder of the authorisation to compensate for the damage and damage caused. The expiry of the authorisation would continue to be subject to an appealable decision by the mining authority and would be properly informed. With regard to the required clarifications, the legislative amendment would allow the submission of the Natura 2000 assessment or the EIA report relating to the application to be completed at a later stage. However, documents should be submitted before the procedure for consulting the application. This would improve the quality and coverage of these documents and contribute to taking environmental impacts into account in project planning. The changes have no impact on the operation, the environmental impact of the operation and the proposal does not undermine the ability of interested parties to influence or participate in project authorisation procedures. The proposal has carried out a one-to-one assessment, i.e. an assessment of the savings for businesses in the light of the administrative burden. The proposed changes will reduce the regulatory burden on businesses. These changes are more important for SMEs than for larger operators. These changes will also reduce the burden on public authorities: refocusing resources will enable the development and improvement of public services. I'm sure it's a state of will that we all share.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u3	Mr President! In this proposal and also in the next proposal, the list is also about streamlining standards along with everything else. In this case, the red tape of gold-washing was quite rightly dismantled. This is a question of reforming the Mining Act now in the second part and streamlining exploration and mining operations from unnecessary bureaucracy, without changing the substance of the law. The streamlining of standards and the dismantling of red tape — it has always been talked about, even during the last parliamentary term, but there was no result. Now we see that already 300 standards have been dismantled or streamlined, and this road continues. That is the concrete work that Minister Lintilä and his predecessors are doing here, and I fully acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u4	Mr President! It is a good thing if procedures are streamlined, but on the other hand we must be very careful not to throw the baby with the bath water. I would like to raise two points about this government proposal. Article 121, to which Minister Lintilak referred, gives the mining authority a discretion as to whether the extension of the mine requires a new mining safety permit or a clarification of the existing permit. However, in order for this to result in a reality which respects the rule of law, the law should define the conditions under which this consideration can be exercised, because the extension of mines may be large. I do not think it should depend solely on the individual consideration of the authority. Another concern that has been expressed in the citizens' feedback is that Natura 2000 and EIA studies could only be returned after the application for authorisation but before the authorisation is granted. I believe that it is necessary to ensure that those who wish to make reminders, however, receive the necessary information in time so that it does not happen that, at a time when no reminders can be made to the permit application, this information from the Natura 2000 and Yva surveys should be made available to the public and, therefore, that information would not be used by the public when they try to influence that project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u5	Mr President! The last time the Mining Act was reformed in a very fair way, the Left Alliance had a parallel law initiative in connection with it. Yes, this mining activity, the search for ore, the use of ores, must be considered as a long process from the moment it starts, until all the afterwork is done. And if you consider the work of a municipality in these permit processes, you will find documents on display, routine checks, the preparation of municipal opinions, the justification of decisions and the decision-making process itself. And there may be several applications for ore exploration permits and also Yva processes in the municipality. However, the legislation does not provide for any compensation to be paid to the municipalities for all these works. Of course, the municipality receives its own from the payment of taxes on employees, but nothing is paid for these matters. At that point, we did suggest that both the prospecting of ore and the extraction should also pay compensation to the mine's location for all the work it has done in order to properly open the mine. I have also heard from the authorities that are taking these permit processes forward that even international mining companies wonder that there is no such mining tax in Finland, and yet we all know that these soil wealth can only be exploited once.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u6	Mr President! I am delighted that I am very much in line with the previous speaker. Last week I tabled a written question on this subject, specifically on the mining tax, precisely because quite a few countries allow such easy exploitation without clear compensation. In fact, I found a question from the Member of Parliament in 2012 and the Minister for Finance, Mr Urpilainen, replied that this would be investigated for possible follow-up at the Ministry of Finance and map the matter and look for preliminary tax models. But this is not what we have seen. I would have asked the Minister if you had any idea how things were going. This appears to have been buried there, even though the Minister of Finance, Mr Urplainen, said so in his reply. The second is this problem raised by Mr Mustajärvi in the municipalities. There is also a great deal of dust, noise, asset depreciation. In fact, the municipalities receive licence fees, and that is what it is — and, of course, employment. All other disadvantages and burdens, such as building infrastructure and considering safety, remain in the municipality. I myself have spoken with the real estate office, and it is hoped that some compensation will be obtained. I understand that standards are being streamlined and that work is being done, but they must be balanced in such a way that they also provide adequate compensation for the municipality and the state. However, there are also environmental issues that need to be taken into account and the comfort of residents. So, the sum of the line: have these compensations been considered, or is it always the sound of speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u7	Mr President! As far as the mining tax is concerned, of course, it would be a good thing that we know of a number of cases where the mines have not been able to clear up the final state since then. Once the mining business has been stopped, companies have been sold there, and the real owners have had no money to put things in order and the state will have to take care of it. But tax revenue in itself also comes to the municipality as state and real estate tax revenue, so that it is not useless for the municipalities. I think that almost every municipality in Finland would be joyful screaming about taking a mining project to its own homeowner. However, as far as this proposal to abolish standards is concerned, I think it is a very good thing that these are being taken forward across the board in all ministries. Even in this norm, annual savings of EUR 95,000 have been calculated in the regulatory burden on companies on an annual basis, but this unnecessary work has also burdened the authorities, and now it is possible to focus on more productive and rational measures, such as monitoring the state of the environment and also on the fact that ex ante checks would be of such a kind as Winterfell in the future. It is great that the obligation to supply annual mining maps will be lifted and the Natura situation will not deteriorate. Although the date of submission of the report will be made more flexible, the level of environmental protection in this situation will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u8	Mr President! It is important to remember that, when discussing mines, although there may have been more negative public presentations in recent years, there are still dozens of very productive and well-managed mines in Finland and very important business operators in these areas. Of course, legislation must be rigorous and high-quality and environmental standards must always be the top priority. It is good to remember that in this proposal, as has already been mentioned here, we are not dealing with environmental impacts or permit assessments, but rather trying to make it smoother to get there at the level of the bite of norm bureaucracy: mining map questions, mining safety issues or notification procedures, for example, how do the exploration permits go down? It is clear, however, that we are in a similar mineral zone with our neighbouring countries, and Sweden in particular is an important competitor for us. How does the Minister now think: is this smoothing up enough to get us on the same page with Sweden? There are much faster mining projects being mobilised. Perhaps in this debate on mining taxes: a few years ago we also talked about the importance of the fund. Has this been considered at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy? But the real question is whether this is enough to bring us to the same level as Sweden or whether there are still some other plans, which would also speed up the authorisation procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u9	Mr President! The amendment of the Mining Act as such is positive and is in line with the government programme, that is to say, bureaucracy is being dismantled, unnecessary papers are being reduced, which is a very welcome phenomenon. With regard to the Mining Act, however, I would point out that we now have such a system in Finland, that, as we all know, mining is a huge capital-intensive activity. In other words, large wholesale money is needed before you can usually even apply for a research permit and then study and then possibly get the mining district set up and mining started. There is a problem with this, which, in my opinion, is a huge mistake for the Finnish economy, that all major Finnish mining operators have stopped mining. Of course, there are a few small junior companies operating, and in Kemiland, a mine that mined raw material in the next roster steel factory. But the big picture is that Finland's bedrock is extremely rich, contains a lot of ores, but all that benefit from the ore slides into the hands of foreign investors, for example, the Sakat ore deposit near Sodankylä, reserved by the American Anglo American, one of the largest mining companies, and that is in the Natura area. As we know, there are Natura sites in Finland that were established specifically in areas where potential deposits could be found. Here is an example of where it leads. Well, that leads to the fact that when there are a lot of such protected areas and hugely rich deposits, only large and international operators have the opportunity to set up and study a mine there, obtain permits that cost a fortune, and then get that operating licence there. It may take decades, but only large mining companies can afford to do so, and no one in Finland can. So all the added value of the national economy that could be obtained from the ore is mercilessly flowing... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u12	Mr President! I'm not going to tell you how many percent of the minister. Lintilä agrees with me. It is good that there are good missiles and so on and so on, that this debate can be directed politically. I think there are good conditions and good will. However, in this context, I would have liked to see a much more central introduction of post-mine management, when we are talking about a mining tax or something else. Currently, some miners say that the law requires less money for aftercare than they have made money. Then there will be a clear gap when, in this own legislation, we have too little money in the mine area after the mining has stopped. Mining is highly capital-linked, Mr Hoskonen had a very good view of this that we should take this into our own hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u15	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for this proposal. The amendment to the Mining Act under discussion is yet another proposal to redeem the Government Programme’s promise of standards and more sensible regulation. This is necessary because a few years ago I met a representative of an Australian-Canadian mining company who said that he acquired land from Finland and Sweden at the same time, after which the process started, and at the time when the drilling was in progress in Finland, this factory had made a long profit in Sweden. He said the two main reasons were: in Finland zoning and licensing processes are extremely rigid and slow, and the second, actually interesting, was that in relation to the question of how you could come to work here in Sweden and be service-oriented, in Finland the authorities do not yet understand this. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister for the record of the government programme, which specifically calls for more customer service orientation from our authorities: what is the overall progress of this process?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u16	Mr President! It is good that this proposal will make these processes smoother. The extractive industry is now living well in Lapland at least: The Great Six gold mine, Europe's largest gold mine, is well, as is the Kevitsa of Sodankylä. I would have drawn the same attention to what Mr Mustajärvi said before, that is, to the revenue generated by the municipalities, that is, this lack of mining tax. It is true that municipalities are forced to invest in housing, transport infrastructure, planning and many other things with this mining industry. And it would be reasonable for the municipality to have its own share. This mining activity is a cross-border activity, and then I do not think it will help just to have a domestic extractive tax, but to plan a completely common Nordic tax. But, of course, this tax must not be so heavy that these investments will not be made, because these are important jobs for us. And fortunately, there are also many promising appearances to be found now. The second point I would like to raise is that the nine-year transitional rule was reached with regard to walkers, but I would like to see it extended to that 15 year period. This solution, in accordance with the will of Parliament, intervened heavily in the protection of property — these miners have made investments, however, and it takes their own time to put them to death. Just as then, of course, these discoveries should be managed to take advantage of the fact that there won't be this kind of rustic taste, because there will then be these schedules or deadline so to speak, banging at some point. So we don't go into that uncontrollable situation. And of course, environmental considerations are also important: then restore these where they have been dug.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u17	Mr President! It is extremely regrettable that badly functioning mines have not only polluted the environment but also contaminated the entire mining industry. At the same time, however, we have numerous mines and mining companies all over Finland that work very well and responsibly. We also have a network of sustainable mining, which is doing a very important and good job, and I believe that in the future, when the best available technology and technology are used, we will be able to combine the clean environment and mining, and I believe that this is necessary. We need to talk about green mining, green mining, and I think it's possible. This proposal, which we have before us now, is very good. You have to thank him for that. It is part of the de-bureaucratic process and brings flexibility here and flexibility to the rules. However, many other issues have been raised in this debate in this area. Among other things, representatives of Mustajärvi and Ojala-Niemela have raised this mining tax or similar, for understandable reasons, because mining is so cyclical that when a small town comes into a mine and a municipality has to invest in infrastructure, day care centres, roads and others, it is at huge risk because it may be that the mining goes away suddenly when world market prices collapse. However, this investment remains for the municipality. That is certainly why, in the long run, it is not the point of this law to consider whether we can improve this situation. And if such a mining tax or, for example, that ore price-bound payment would come, which would not be too hard, so that it would prevent mining activities in Finland, then this fee should be directed specifically to the municipality, not to the state so much to collect, because the municipality bears this at its greatest risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u18	Mr President! For Finland, mining is a really big economic issue, definitely one of the biggest. As far as this bill is concerned, which is now in the debate, this is a good proposal, in line with the government programme, as I said, but it is also a sign that we are taking care of the legislation of the mines. There is no such wild situation, but what I hope is that this red tape line will continue to be used and the paper war on mines will be genuinely reduced, because it is absolutely disastrous for the Finnish economy that, in practice, this huge bureaucracy and unnecessary paper war has destroyed one industry in this country, mining. In practice, there are no large mining companies in Finland. A few junior companies are working, and you have to lift a hat for them, they're really tough. By the way, most of their capital comes from abroad, so that I cannot suddenly say if there is anything entirely working with Finnish money, but there are very few, if at all. As far as Mr Myllykoski's speech is concerned, he spoke with merit about the post-clearance process when the mining process is due to end. If, as it were, tunneled ore is extracted from the earth’s interior, there will be virtually no piles of stone, since all that rough stone and the surplus stone will be driven back into the tunnels and it will not remain in sight of the earth at all. For example, in the gold mine of my municipality in Pampalo, Ilomantsi, you don't see piles of stones. When all the stones left over from that process are driven back into the tunnels, they disappear there. Then the open quarry, which is, sometimes comes in the world when mining stops, a very good pond, and there ducks and women can go duck hunting or swimming or whatever. So there's no world going to fall, and there's no world going to get ruined. It just goes back to the natural state, and that's it. Then, from Finland’s point of view, this mining legislation generally has the huge problem of having legislation, different environmental regulations and other articles of legislation rendered the activities of Finnish companies unprofitable because of enormous bureaucracy and terrible expensiveness. After all, it's a strange paradox. It's a huge wonder. Finland’s bedrock is best known in the world. The Geological Survey has over a hundred years, probably 150 years, an old tradition. Finland's bedrock has been studied for 100 to 200 years, I don't know the exact number of years, but I'm guessing that about 150 years, and Finland's bedrock is best known for all countries in the world, by far the best. We have a very accurate knowledge of the Finnish bedrock, and it is thanks to the Geology Research Centre. These mines have been born on this basis since we know geology very well in our country. Of course there are still unexplored areas, deep research is needed, deep ore is likely to be found much easier than we know and very valuable metals. But what is the problem here is that the various measures have caused all that enormous benefit from the ore to flow abroad. Well, what would happen if the mining tax mentioned in the speeches by Mrs Myllykoski and many others were to be imposed? That would mean that those miners from abroad who have the money to come to Finland to try and take risks when we ourselves have driven ourselves out of the market would consider whether they will come at all. All the poorer ores would not be mined, and only the best treasures found would be picked there, the best ores from the most valuable metals — everything else would be unexploited. In other words, the mining tax would mean that labour wages, investment wages and many other investment income, taxes, social security contributions paid in connection with wages would be completely missed. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the mining industry has created a very high level of mining technology, metallurgy, industrial activity in Finland. We have companies producing drilling machines, developed a variety of mining equipment, transport equipment, equipment for mining in a mine tunnel, which is world-famous, very high-quality. Then we have water purification technology, we have stone treatment technology, we have ore processing technology. All of this has been created as a by-product of mining. If we spend 30 years in this dream of a princess with a rose, all of this will disappear from this land. What, then, do we live on? I do not think that we should go for EU projects anymore, when there is hardly any such thing at all. In other words, Mr President, I am very concerned about this Finnish mentality that all the great wealth we have is being given abroad or, at home, making it impossible to use it. If the President will allow me, then I would like to add that, when mining has been made so difficult by the action that has just been mentioned, we have been doing the same for agriculture all the time, and we are always talking about clean food production and excellent conditions in Finland, but I do not think there is a more gruesome management and bureaucracy-killed industry in this country than agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u19	Mr President! Mrs Meri referred to the written question and the answer given during the last parliamentary term, and she made some points in her own speech, so I think we should be more specific. In other words, different models of mining tax were mapped during the last parliamentary term, but the political conclusion that was reached not only in the Ministry of Finance but also in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, but also in the government as a whole, was that if a mining tax were introduced, it would be estimated that there would be negative effects on the extractive industry, mining activities and, above all, on the possibility of new investments in Finland. For this reason, I replied in writing to the question that no decisions were taken on the introduction of the tax or on the initiation of the actual preparation. It is also good to remember that the miner pays mining compensation to the landowner, pays real estate tax and also taxes on income from business activities. In other words, neither the mining industry nor the extractive industry in Finland operate without taxes. Whether or not we want to introduce a mining tax during this parliamentary term is a purely political decision. And perhaps Mr Meri has an influence on the fact that the Finns of Finland in the government are actively promoting the introduction of a mining tax. Of course, it would be interesting to hear Minister Lintilä's view on this: is it your opinion that the introduction of a mining tax would be the right solution in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u20	The Minister has asked for the floor, and now that we have another round, perhaps I will now give him three minutes, and then we will continue with these few speeches that have been requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u21	President! I am mainly trying to answer the questions that were asked me here. First, Mr Hassille, that is Rule 121. Expansion: I do believe in the Finnish authorities and their judgment. Since these extensions, which usually take place there, are very small and generally do not require a new mining safety permit, I believe that the authorities will be able to do so. As far as the completion of Natura 2000 and Yva is concerned, it has sought to improve the quality of documents. It has now become clear that, when the timetable is tight, those documents are not as good in quality as they and their coverage would be desired and required. Then this, which has been mentioned here in several speeches, is this mine tax job: just like the representative. The salmon said, so it is not for you to do with this law. I think we should remember this whole thing. 2011 was a very big reform of the Mining Act; it was a long-term work that was done. And this law, whether or not it is said, on the basis of the experience, the comments that have come from the authorities, the operators in the sector, it is precisely the dismantling of standards which will break down additional standards and bring about financial relief. Whether we can catch Sweden with these, I dare not promise, but this is definitely a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, we are slow, as was also the case in Mrs Wallinheim's speech. We're slow here. However, this is a customer-oriented approach to improving these conditions, which is what we have here. Congressman Hoskonen was after us for going out these mines. This is a very capital-intensive sector, a very capital-intensive sector, where money does not make a profit very quickly. And the government does not have the line that the government should move strongly into the mining sector, as well as the mining tax, which is what Mr Urpilainen was asking about here. We don't have one here. However, in my opinion, this as a whole is a good trend towards deregulation, economic savings are clearly achieved and streamlined without compromising environmental factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u22	Mr President! From the mouth of a mining company last season, heard in the Committee on Economic Affairs: they said that it would be better to have a negative decision after six months than the seven-year promise process. In other words, when we hold these investors in such a long hang, it is certainly right that the head of this government should be determined to streamline this licensing process, and that does not mean that it is worse to prepare, but that we must see, in this case too, that these foreign investors will then be able to come here. Mr Hoskonen: if we are not quite domestic here, then we still have the Kemi Chromium Mine in Outokumpu, which is now regarded as a significant state ownership. Representative Urplainen brought this mine tax at the second corner, and the Minister has already responded to it. This comment should actually be heard by the Minister of Finance Orpo, because the most important thing is that when we have mines taxed in Finland, we would block the loopholes that we currently have. We can move: not directly from this mine to Canada, but we can make the route by transferring revenue to a Swedish subsidiary, through which it will then be possible to transfer these revenues to that Canadian mining company without taxes. And here is an important point that should be seen that this route could be closed down and that taxation would take place here — all the reserves that are transferred from here would be taxed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u23	Mr President! I'm glad there's going to be a wide-ranging debate. Mr Urpilainen said that I am going to pull the corners straight. Well, perhaps he himself was a little guilty of it, because he only read this last sentence in his written reply, but he did not mention that, for possible follow-up measures by the government, the Ministry of Finance, however, is identifying preliminary tax models for mining. In other words, the survey has been carried out there, and it would have been nice to hear more broadly what they are and not just that they have not been done. In addition, I was left unclear what the SDP's own position on this mining tax is. But it was nice to hear that at least Mr Salmon was of the opinion that this issue could be resolved, and especially in the municipality, these problems often come, as has been said here, in terms of day care, infrastructure and many others. On the other hand, Mr Hoskone's point of view was that it would not make sense to do this. However, there are various royalties and mining taxes in the world, and I think we should deal with this. Here it was stated that at that time this kind of end has been, but the world is changing, and this could be discussed again. However, this raises a lot of debate and I do not think it is the answer to the fact that no decisions have been taken on the introduction of the tax. It would be good to have a broader debate on this, but I also agree that the Minister for Finance should be here himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u24	Mr President! I would kindly encourage the honourable Member to be precise, because in my own speech I specifically mentioned that these mining tax models have been studied, but a political decision was made that no mining tax should be prepared, because the assessment was very wide that it would have negative effects. So I encourage precision and also correct quotes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u26	Mr President! All in all, the mining industry, the extractive industry, is vital to Finland. Finnish soil allows for different types of mining, and this raw material is used as an accessory to the chemical industry and the forest industry, among other things, and I therefore consider it important. All in all, the mining sector employs a significant number of people in Finland, and I would like to emphasise this industry myself. The mining equipment manufacturing industry in Finland is at a very high level and an international export product, so the Mining Act in Finland must be updated in order to maintain competitiveness in this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u27	Mr President! Just as Mr Urpilainen said here earlier, the mining industry pays taxes, just as any business in Finland does. Real estate taxes are paid and corporation tax is also paid in exactly the same way as any business activity, even though it is often given the wrong impression that mines do not pay any tax here in Finland. I think it was quite right then to make this report and the political line that there was no mining tax, but I am sure that it will always have to be considered whether a reassessment should be carried out. But this sector is very sensitive, as we have seen, and when, for understandable reasons, even the state is being asked to help this sector a little, that there should be Finnish ownership, which I think is a worthy idea, then perhaps there is little to say that we also have different examples of it. After all, we currently have state-owned mining, Terrafame and Talvivaara mining, and that is not the best example of mining. When there are ore deposits — although there are them all over Finland — especially in Northern Finland and the Lapland region, we have to say that in Lapland we believe that our future opportunity, one possibility, is also mining, ore activities, tourism and the forest industry and other industries. We can reconcile these, but there must be a strict zero tolerance for environmental pollution. No one wants mines that ruin nature. Mines always have environmental impacts in the area where they are established — that is clear. But to go further and spoil our environment must be a zero tolerance, and no one wants that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u28	Mr President! At the end of that speech, it is good to agree that mining is an important area for us. Of course, it is important to have an impact on employment, but at the same time we must always remember, of course, that there must be zero tolerance from the environmental point of view for the fact that the environment cannot be ruined. President! I asked for this floor because I began to wonder about this debate and the exchange of views from the very point of view of the government's position on this issue. After all, we are now going to spring, where, for example, the spending limits are coming up and we need to make some pretty big economic plans. There must be both the expenditure side and the income side, taxes, all this. There is now a somewhat contradictory view that Minister Lintilä said that there is no prospect of a mining tax and, on the other hand, there are speeches from the centre that could be clarified. Then, as a representative of the Finnish People's Party, Meri took a strong stand that this mining tax should be introduced. Now, President, I would like the government, in this situation, to be able to clarify its own line and come out with what the government's view is currently in this political situation, in this economic situation as a whole, with regard to this mining tax, because this inevitably leaves the listener with a somewhat confused feeling and a vague impression of what the government is going to do on this issue as a whole, because these speeches are for and against. Of course, if you could say it nicely, we are quite familiar with the fact that the government may have also had other examples in this period, where there are some differences of opinion on the internal side and otherwise, but of course it would be good to have clarification in this case. Neither would I, Mr President, feel it would have been bad for Minister Orpo, especially in this situation, to be present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u29	Mr President! When the government line was asked here, there would happen to be no minister here, but I have to say that although the representatives of the government parties have certainly brought their views to a different degree, Minister Lintilä clearly stated what the government's line is, that is, the government is not preparing a mining tax and it is not planned to introduce it at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u30	Mr President! Indeed, as far as mining tax is concerned, the most interesting is the position of the government and the government parties. When the representative of the Sea calls for it, what is the position of the Finns, whether there has been an attempt to negotiate this matter in the government, it would be interesting. The decisions of the last government are known. Personally, I'm a little sorry there wasn't a mining tax. It is not a question of believing that the mines will not pay any taxes, but of paying taxes on the non-renewable resource that the mines are digging up from Finnish soil. But I actually asked for the floor to comment on Minister Lintilä's reply to my first speech, first of all on this authority's discretion when the mine is extended. I agree with him that, when it comes to small extensions, discretion is all right. However, I do not think that there would be any mistrust of the ability and citizenship of the Finnish authorities if there were criteria in the law or regulation as to the type of cases in which these procedures could be corrected. As far as Natura and Yva documents are concerned and their submission after an application for authorisation are concerned, it is a good objective that the documents are in order, but that cannot be more important than the fact that citizens can influence and that citizens have all relevant information when submitting their comments. I hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will deal with this issue carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u31	Mr President! It was here that people asked about the position of the Finns. Now that I have suddenly looked, at least on the Internet in the alternative budget for 2013, we have proposed a mining tax, although we have hoped that it would be the kind of thing that would not, of course, stifle business. I myself have not been in government negotiations so that I do not know what everything has been discussed there, but as an individual Member of Parliament, I want to raise a number of issues, and this has also been the case with the Finns of Finland, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u32	Mr President! Studies were carried out during the last parliamentary term on the various possible models relating to the mining tax, and it was noted that there would be more problems and disadvantages, at least with those proposed models, so the possibility of a mining tax should then be examined and considered very carefully. But I, too, take quite rightly the concern and the question which has been raised here that the profits of Finnish soil wealth go abroad through foreign companies. In that sense, of course, I would like Finnish companies to be able to succeed. There is a real need to take care of the operating conditions of the mining industry. The mining industry has, unfortunately, suffered for its reputation in recent years, and it is very important that environmental considerations are taken into account and that the environment is well taken care of. I hope that this draft law will be carefully examined and considered in committee. As such, the arguments put forward for this proposal to deregulate unnecessary regulation and to combat the practical situations in which the procedures and obligations laid down in the Mining Act are unnecessarily burdensome do seem quite justified to me. In other words, in certain circumstances there is a need to increase the need for and discretion on the part of the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u33	Mr President! To this mining tax: We have just heard that the Finns of Peru have had a record of this in the alternative budget and they have been willing to promote it. Now, of course, I come to the question that Mr Hassi asked earlier, which, of course, is an important question, namely that, in this situation, the views of the government parties and the views of the government parties on how to proceed. Mr Hassi then asked whether this issue, which has, as it were, been raised, has been raised in these negotiations. That is why it is very important that, at a time when the government then decides on its positions, at least bring up and negotiate the things that have been discussed. One thing that comes to mind and which we have often spoken about here was when the Finns of Peru promised before the elections that there would be such a tax deduction for development cooperation donations, and we still have not received an answer as to whether this model has been brought into the negotiations there in the government when it was very much talked about. In this way, of course, it would be useful to know in general what has been the internal state of discussion and negotiation in the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u34	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u35	Mr President! There are a lot of good and worthy points in the draft law, but even a small fine-tuning is still needed at committee stage, as, when implemented, the law would give Traf wide powers to guide the test criteria. This is a good starting point if it genuinely streamlines the annual vehicle survey. I believe, however, that it should be pointed out that it will not be the other way round, and I say this because I read a report from the Automobile Union in the evening of 18 February. The information note stated that it might be sufficient for the vehicle to be rejected in the future by means of a headlight lamp or by means of a rear registration plate. If one lamp does not burn, the vehicle could be discarded. This is very difficult to understand, let alone accept. If the information from the Automotive Association is true, I am surprised, which is why the survey goes back to such a precise accusation. I also wonder whether the lamp for the rear registration plate of the vehicle is a test equipment when there is no light even on the front registration plate of the vehicle and yet both registration plates reflect, for example, in the lighting of street and other vehicles. At present, the surveyor accepts a vehicle which is otherwise in conformity with the regulations and only puts in a corrective action call for an inoperative lamp or other minor deficiency. I believe that this is a sensible course of action and that such a small deficiency must not lead to a vehicle being abandoned in roadworthiness tests in the future. Mr President! These aspects must be taken into account in the work of the committee so that we do not go back decades instead of making things smooth, when the surveyor specifically squatted the owners of older vehicles with a bolt and a hammer in their hand. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u36	Mr President! Once again, this government proposal is about a little red tape to dismantle and rationalise practices. As far as roadworthiness is concerned, in practice, this means that for new vehicles the roadworthiness test times are slightly reduced, so that, if you think of the ten years since the car is new, there will be three cycles away from the roadworthiness test, and I think that this makes perfect sense when you think of new cars. On the other hand, for cars over 10 years old, the survey interval will remain the same, and this is also justified. Well, then, it has been raised here — Mr Hongisto rightly raised it to me — that it also contains certain details which seem to be contrary to common sense. That now, for example, when the light on the plate is broken or when the burner is broken, that would be the reason why the survey leads to rejection. This is not common sense at all. That is why, when these came to the public, I also had a prior debate on this, and I am told that this comes from an EU directive which has gone so far into detail. At the time when this directive was being discussed in the European Union, Finland tried to influence the fact that it would not have gone to such a detailed level, which in no way makes sense, but it remained rather alone. And now it seems that this is why, while we are implementing this directive alongside this law, this directive, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u37	Mr President! In the last period, the survey law was recently amended so that small repairers are also able to take part in the survey, but I have received a great deal of contact from the industry that small repairers have not gone into this survey business because it is so bureaucratic. We are now faced with the fact that, even in the spirit of deregulation, the government has proposed a change in the survey law so that the periodic survey period for new and new passenger cars and vans will be reduced. So in the future, the first survey would be no later than four years after the start of operation, when it is now three, then every two years, until the car has been in service for ten years. In other words, the model is that 4 to 2 to 2 and every year thereafter, i.e. when the car has been in service for more than ten years. In the future, tractors used in licensed traffic should be tested for the first time four years after the start of operation and then every two years thereafter. This amendment would bring into force the Directive's requirement to survey tractors used for purposes other than agriculture, horticulture or forestry, agriculture or fisheries. When we were considering the law, we were also talking about the roadworthiness test for motorcycles, but here we have created a situation where there is no obligation to inspect motorcycles, but we are trying to promote their road safety in alternative ways, which we will hear later. What is also good about the proposal is that the so-called rolling survey is now possible: the date of the vehicle's roadworthiness would not have been strictly tied to the date of entry into service or to the last number of the registration number. Then the time of the survey could become meaningful according to its person and use. Mr Hongisto and the Salmon both talked about the survey activities themselves, how independent it is and how these grounds for rejection arise, for example, and when faults are classified, we will look for how strict the classification of these defects becomes. Is this the case, for example, that the faults of the lamp, the brakes or the tyres, or their problems, will then bounce into a new survey, even the small ones, even if the lamp of the registration plate is not burned? There should therefore be no national discretion, i.e. there should be the same laws and criteria at each survey point. And in the sense that this law is now being discussed in committee, this is certainly the basis for rejection, so that the law is consistent with all surveyors and all citizens. But on the other hand, we must consider the fairness of the offence, for example, how this kind of non-combustible lamp will be interpreted in the situation. Paper-based registration certificates are no longer needed in this digital period, when the same information is now available electronically. This will then be corrected on this point. It is therefore important to remember that the survey activity employs and will employ a great deal in Finland. But this bill will also directly save the citizens money when the intervals of surveying are reduced, so to speak — but in the case of ten-year-old cars, the obligation to check every year will be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u38	Mr President! This government proposal redrafts the articles on the vehicle law on the content of the periodic inspection, the classification of detected defects, the ban on driving and roadside inspections, among other things, based on the EU roadworthiness directive. The requirement of independence of the registration, modification and switching surveyer would be removed, as was the case a few years ago with the removal of periodic inspections, allowing the inspection activities to be linked to the workshop activities. This change is justified by the experience of the previous amendment: there have been no problems with the quality or misuse of the survey. From now on, the car’s first survey is therefore moving four years away from the start of operation, and then every second year until 10 years. As a rule, this government proposal fascinates the owners of new cars but angers the survey industry. In practice, the reduction in the number of surveys means, in addition to the increased competition in recent years, the actual playoff of the stations. The sector is also rightly concerned about predictability and continuity. When regulation was recently opened up, it also made it possible, through new investments, to survey repairers, competition increased, and now we are in the same playoff game. The Government also justifies this bill, as is the case with many other legal projects, the dismantling of standards and the streamlining of business operations. At least this latter argument already seems a little questionable if it is to streamline means fallen companies and unemployment. When we look at the car owners, I too have been concerned about the level of roadworthiness requirements in the future. I personally think it is important that the message is being sent out of this house that, at least with the increasing number of wrecks, fewer inspection sessions of new cars will not be filled. But with joy we will receive
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u39	Mr President! I believe that independent roadworthiness testing is a prerequisite and one of the most important features of the survey industry, as it ensures that all citizens are provided with a fair service and that safe cars continue in traffic. The safety of vehicles must therefore be one of the important aspects of the roadworthiness legislation, and I think that it is a good idea to specify this re-examination criterion for all of us every day that they go through the roadworthiness test. A vehicle that does not pass a survey is not fit to be in that traffic even on a normal day. So this is a good spot. The fact that authorised tractors enter the scope of the survey does not at present make much difference in the sense that, if the current performance of the curve passes, the licences for tractors with a speed of 40 to 60 will be waived. At the moment, there are only a few tractors in Finland that travel more than 60 kilometers per hour and then will need their licence in the future. Normally, when you see tractors on the streets and on the roads at the moment, there is no tractor there today that would be subject to a survey according to this decree. It is also important to note that motorcycles do not come within the scope of the survey but are subject to normal traffic control and ensure that motorcycles are in good driving order and comply with all the requirements of safe traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u40	Mr President! It also makes sense to reduce unnecessary regulation in the field of roadworthiness tests, and I consider these objectives to be acceptable in principle, but of course the committee must carefully investigate the potential risks and monitor the development of the situation. The competition situation is likely to keep inspection stations under control with regard to customer money, but how will it be ensured that dangerous vehicles are not approved too lightly because of competition? This proposal also increases the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, and at the same time needs to ask whether the resources are sufficient to carry out the monitoring task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u41	Mr President! It is a good thing that the legislation on surveying activities is being reformed, and precisely from the point of view of dismantling bureaucracy and rationalising activities. This is a very healthy development. All of us have a picture of the surveys carried out in our own past, which were nightmares for many when a strict surveyor did his best to find something wrong there and then perhaps have had to come many more times for another survey. Fortunately, however, these times have now come to an end and this competition from a free market economy has removed the legislation as this problem has changed completely. Today, when you look at a new car, three years of driving, you have to take a survey, and then you get one year of freedom, and then the following year you have to check it out. This change is welcome because anyone who acquires a new car will receive a guarantee with the car, which requires it to be properly maintained in order to maintain the warranty, and it has led to cars being in such good condition today that this reduced number of roadworthiness tests during the first ten years is highly justified, as well as the classification of those defects so dangerous that they are placed on the road immediately, and which include procedures for checking cars on the road by surprise checks. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. I hope that this law will be adopted and will enter into force as soon as possible, because it will help many people as the survey becomes more flexible, so that, for example, the delay of the day does not result in suddenly, when the road is running and the survey is one day late, the police will meet up and take the plates off. Such procedures are pointless, since the one-day delay in surveying does not cause any problem. The main thing is that you take care of the roadworthiness check and keep your car in good condition. It's just a matter of personal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u42	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u43	Mr President! With this bill adopted unanimously by the committee, the registration of doctors responsible for radiation-related health surveillance is moving from the responsibility of the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority to the supervision and authorisation of the social welfare and health sector. This also means, of course, that the work of the Social and Health Protection Authorisation and Control Agency will increase with the processing of these rights, applications. It is important that the safety of health workers exposed to radiation is ensured and carefully kept records of those who are the specialised workers, specialist doctors who are able to maintain this occupational health care. In this context, it should be noted that learning about the harmful health effects of radiation requires a completely separate training, i.e. it is not included in the initial or specialisation training of an occupational doctor, but requires its own specialists. Until now, the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority has taken care of this activity and is now in fact moving towards the control of the register maintained by the National Agency for the Licensing and Control of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u44	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 1/2017 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u45	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to remove some of the employer's reporting obligations relating to lay-off and dismissal. We have had provisions relating to the employment and security policy, which have obliged the employer to report redundancies and lay-offs of at least ten employees. In addition, the employer has been obliged to find out about the public employment services for redundant workers and to inform them of their right to an employment plan. This entity has once been part of the security of change, and when you have been active, you have also received higher unemployment protection in relation to change security, but since that higher unemployment benefit is no longer allowed — it was part of these unemployment benefit savings packages — it is no longer justified that this should be accompanied by these reporting obligations. In fact, this proposal proposes that employers' reporting and clearing obligations laid down in the various employment relationship laws should be waived, and this also applies to group lay-offs. Here, too, history goes a little further than the amendment of this law, which is sometimes when the employer informed the TE Office of group layoffs, these layoffs automatically received unemployment benefit after this, but already during the last parliamentary term this group lay-off procedure was abandoned, and every person, even when laid off, has had to register as a customer of the TE Office in order to be able to receive unemployment benefit. Therefore, this obligation to notify is no longer justified because that group lay-off notice has not resulted in the reduced workload for the TE Offices, as before. On the contrary, this proposal, which is now being made, will perhaps make the current workload a little lighter. When the committee dealt with this issue, it stated that this was a welcome proposal and that it was, in a way, lifting the unnecessary reporting obligations that the employer currently has, but pointed out that since, for example, we do not necessarily have enough knowledge of Finnish society and do not know that the TE Office is the place where we should go in order to obtain employment services and to benefit from unemployment, it would be desirable that these workers who have been made redundant and laid off continue to be told how to obtain these services. Among other things, the discussion was that there could be a practice of giving instructions on how the unemployed person should act in this situation. That obligation to report would not be as pregnant as it is at present, but a small card that would tell you where to go and what to do might perhaps help many immigrants, especially those who have to be laid off. This committee's report was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u46	Mr President! That is where the chairman of the committee was able to give a brief and firm account of what this is really all about. I have taken the floor because we have: The Sipilä Government's programme contains a report on the deregulation of unnecessary regulation, and even this change, which is very minor — as the President said, it has become unnecessary — would perhaps be overlooked if we did not look at the whole. A number of non-compliances have been made in view of the opening hours of shops, the abolition of the authorisation procedure for the holiday of hairdressers, the transition to VAT and, for example, this parental allowance, EUR 2500, paid to the mother's employer for maternity costs. These are small things, perhaps individually, but, as a whole, they are the determined work that we, as representatives of the government party, are constantly trying to do in accordance with the government programme. And, as Mr Filatov said, we were in agreement here, there was no greater amazement here in committee, but it was indeed wondered whether there would then be any such printable form that could be given. Under no circumstances is it intended that the employer should be thoroughly familiar with and advise the employee, perhaps not knowing these regulations so well himself. We heard in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, among others, the Uusimaa Employment and Economic Development Office, and they too believe that it is very sensible to remove this from small employers. The Employment and Economic Development Office saw that this would reduce the administrative burden on the employer if the obligation to notify the employment office of redundancies was removed. According to the Employment and Economic Development Office, it takes time for the employer to find out what is to be reported, and it is unreasonable to require that the employer familiarises himself with all public employment services in depth. However, it requires expertise, and the most important thing is that this instruction should guide a person to the right door, so to speak, so that he can be registered there. The Employment and Economic Development Office of Uusimaa further notes that there are no monitoring data on the number of redundancies of small enterprises employing fewer than 20 employees, but it is assumed that these are relatively small numbers. It is also assumed that a responsible employer in the event of dismissal advises the employee to register with the TE Office and that the person made redundant will of course find information on the Internet. The information provided by the employer about dismissed persons has not contributed to the employment of dismissed persons, says the Uusimaa Employment and Economic Development Office. There is a need for much more detailed information to promote the employment services and the employment of those made redundant than could have been obtained with that notification form. More detailed information can be obtained when you register as a job seeker and, if I understood correctly in this respect, the employment office alone has not been able to provide the services until now, but it is precisely the job seeker's own registration and activity, which means that it is also pointless. Now there is another small, unnecessary section deleted, and all of this is quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u47	Mr President! In this context, I would like to remind you of the idea of change security in the past. Its idea was that, even during that period of notice, when people were made redundant, they would be able to catch up with the employment plan and with the services of the Employment Office and with the active measures that would contribute to their employment. But since this mechanism was dismantled in that package of cuts in unemployment security, it no longer makes sense to maintain the procedures involved in that process, and that is why it makes sense to abolish this law. But yes, we should find simpler methods for situations where, for example, there are still group layoffs. If we know that a company is laying off its employees for a month, for example, for cyclical reasons or in a situation of change, it is actually quite absurd for all people to have plans and for all people to have the same obligation, but it would be reasonable for unemployment benefit to be reasonably automatic in the case of short lay-offs. On the other hand, in the case of longer lay-offs, it makes sense that employment plans and services should be set in motion, because then it makes sense to look for a job that would offer work rather than long lay-off, while waiting for it to stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u48	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u49	Mr President! Act Act on the amendment of Article 49 of the Finnish Constitution and the Parliament’s Decision on the amendment of Article 54 of Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. The main content of the bill is that the citizens' bill should always be treated with dignity and given the opportunity to promote citizens' commitment to politics, and I therefore believe that, even if the parliament changes, the people will not change. It is important that citizens' initiatives have been designed to promote political openings in a party and other cross-border way. This strengthens the sense of cohesion and political activity among citizens, which is of great positive importance to society. The Internet and social media make it possible to obtain a large number of signatures for the citizens' initiative, even if there is no large organisational machinery behind it with its employees and information channels. The valuable handling of citizens' legislative initiatives both strengthens the direct influence of citizens and emphasises the role of Parliament as a legislative body. So far, Parliament has dealt with 13 legislative initiatives, one of which has been adopted, i.e. equal marriage law. So far, no citizens' initiative has expired because the parliamentary term had reached the end of the parliamentary term before it was discussed. This has, of course, meant that those preparing citizens' legislative initiatives have understood that leaving them in parliament will take place at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which, of course, will put Parliament under its own pressure to process. In that respect, I believe that the bill for the citizens' initiative not to expire during the parliamentary term is justified. If the citizens' initiative had been tabled last week, for example, and we were in an early election, that would mean that this initiative would lapse. And I believe that such an opportunity should be ruled out, for the people have spoken and I do not believe that the signatories of the initiative would withdraw their decision with the new Parliament, for example in the context of a change of political power, but they have left it of their own volition and see, with strength, their own view that the law should be changed in some way. That is why, Mr President, this debate is justified at a time when the debate on citizens' legislative initiatives is so-called hot, not only among parliamentarians but also among citizens. Let me now, Mr President, add another point of view, in relation to how good it would be in Parliament to deal with the citizens' law. In my opinion, it would be good for the President, with the help of his civil servants, to assess when a citizens' bill is submitted to Parliament, to decide at the time when the citizens' bill is possibly contrary to the international human rights treaties in Finland, and in that case this bill would not even be sent to the committee. However, if the Bureau has taken this decision that such a breach of commitment would not exist in this bill, it would go to the committee as decided here. However, the committee would at that point in its deliberations, weighing up whether there are constitutional problems, and before the initiative is initiated, it would ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — if there were such features that there could be constitutional problems — and after the opinion of this Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the committee will then decide whether to go through this in accordance with the practice of the last Parliament, which is good, that is to say, with such public consultations. In other words, if there are no constitutional obstacles, a decision would be taken to start drafting the law and, in a way, a commitment would be made that the report would be either rejected or supported. Mr President! These are the words that I have spoken with — this 'rich' group of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u50	Mr. Speaker! Mrs Myllykoski has taken a very worthy initiative, and the other signatures are also worthy. This is a proposal worth considering, that these citizens' initiatives should not lapse when the parliamentary term ends, but that we should then be able to continue with the next parliamentary term, despite the elections, when, as has been said, the people do not change. However, I personally see that this new system of citizens' initiatives, which has been introduced this decade to complement — 'to supplement', I think, is an important point — our representative democracy, would require even greater reform and correction. There have now been many shortcomings in this very last couple of years in this parliamentary term, for example, the phenomenon of counter-initiatives on previously adopted citizens' initiatives. There are also clear shortcomings in the quality of these citizens' initiatives. Let me take, for example, this initiative to expel a foreign offender. That initiative was of such a poor quality that if it had been adopted it would have led to a different outcome than that intended by the initiative. It probably does not make much sense that such a thing should be dealt with in this House for a long time. I would also like to see the number of signatures considered. At the moment, it's 50,000 signatures. If we think that an initiative signed by 100 Members of Parliament is being dealt with extensively in this house, then if one Member of Parliament has received some 5,000 votes, as is the case in many constituencies, then the initiative signed by 100 Members of Parliament has 500,000 people behind it, and then only 10 MEPs would be behind 50,000. Perhaps we should also consider whether the collection period could be a little shorter. Mr President! I hope, therefore, that the parties and parliamentary groups will be quick to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u51	Mr President! I myself would like to thank Mrs Myllykoski for her good initiative and raise the points that have just been made in Mrs Kurvise's speech about the relevance of the citizens' initiative: are these counter-initiatives and this number of signatories reasonable? I personally think that it now seems that the citizens' initiative, which was made a few years ago, does not really work as it was intended, and I therefore believe that it would be a little more specific in the number of signatories or in the way in which those names are written today. That electronic signature and so on are very easy countermeasures, and I therefore hope that this House will not start to do legislative work solely on the basis of citizens' initiatives. But, in fact, Mr Myllykoski's initiative is a good one for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u52	Mr President! Thank you for the above-mentioned contributions. In my view, it is important now, even though it is not directly related to this, that this period, in terms of the cap on interest rates for quick-leases, more than 130 signatories have been collected by MPs and indirectly they represent more than 800,000 Finnish citizens. It is, in a way, somewhat contradictory to the value of this own work that, when there are more than 800,000 signatories indirectly, the initiative is in committee and then either the committee says something about it or it does not say anything at all. These are tragic plays that more than 100 signatories' initiatives are not being said by the committee. In my view, this is a contradictory situation with regard to Parliament's authority and the activeness of the parliamentarians, in view of the fact that so many people have committed themselves to it. However, the committees should also make their own efforts in such a way that within three months the committee would inform the Member of Parliament of the measures that will be taken for this bill: either it will not proceed or it will be sent to the Ministry. It would be the least that could be done to parliamentarians who have 100 signatories received, the fact that such a reading in committee would come that it would not just be there somewhere and then it is stated for ages that thank you and goodbye, nothing happened, and the parliamentary representative's own activity would not be found in a way. But, Mr President, I hope that this could be a signal to the Ministry of Justice, that the citizens' law will be reviewed and that these issues raised in the debate can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u53	Mr. Speaker! I think this is a very valuable debate, even though we are not quite a huge number of parliamentarians here. We're all over the core of this. However, our constitution still starts from the fact that the primary authority of the supreme authority and legislative authority is this hall, a parliament to which 200 representatives from different constituencies are elected, and we are the group that represents the will of the people. Perhaps in the course of a few years there has been a little culture in connection with this social media age and online phenomena, and it seems to me that many citizens feel that citizens' initiatives are the main way to change legislation and move things forward. It's not supposed to be that way. The citizens' initiative system is all right as a complement, but I do not think it is a healthy development if we start to draw up citizens' initiatives on all issues. I think that, above all, we must continue to influence the parties, and that is where all the parties, both the parliamentary parties and the parties outside the Parliament, clearly have a place to look in the mirror, which is why these initiatives, which have now been brought here as a citizens' initiative, have not been taken forward by the parties, even if they are party assembly initiatives. Mr President, I personally find it a little strange if Members of Parliament or Members of the European Parliament are very strongly involved in collecting citizens' initiatives. It is not, of course, prohibited, and I do not think that it is necessary to specifically ban it from the legal point of view, but from the point of view of the tenacity of our system and, if I may say so, coherence, it does not make much sense for us, who have the opportunity to act parliamentaryly, to go there to the free civil activity zone. I would like to conclude by saying that I agree with Mrs Myllykoski that this discussion of the initiatives of the representatives in the committees must be stepped up, and yes, it must be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-28-ps-14.u54	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the debate, but as a message to the Bureau and perhaps to the Secretary-General from here in the Chamber: I believe that, when a bill sometimes feels — and perhaps has been so guilty of it itself — it is such a good idea that the role of the committees in dealing with legislative initiatives taken by parliamentarians, so that decisions can be taken, perhaps, if it is said in a mean way, the manufacturing process could be curbed a little if the MP consciously exposes himself to the fact that this bill is being dealt with in committee and something is being said about it. Surely there would be one such channel that this legislative initiative by MPs might gain more dignity when the MP knows that a decision will be made on this, which will then be published in Parliament. It would perhaps be more responsible to think about what kind of legislative proposals are being made, not just for the sake of public interest, but for the real will to change Finnish legislation, either in such a way that their own background groups have approached, or in such a way that their own voters want this to be done, so that it might be possible to get more of that kind of posture.
