ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. A decision is now being taken on the intermediate issue of the government reform of social welfare and health care for Tuula Haatainen and others. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 4 April 2017. In the debate Tuula Haatainen, supported by Sirpa Paatero, has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u3	Mr President! The aim of this Government proposal is to promote equal access to customer service for public administration authorities throughout the country and to improve the efficiency of their operations. The aim of the proposal is to support the development of digitalisation and to enable the cost-effective maintenance of sufficiently large customer service networks by creating a framework for the joint service of the state and municipalities in the area of customer service. In particular, these proposed changes to the joint service system will help to secure the needs of people who do not know how or who do not yet have the technical facilities to do their business through e-services. The law does not propose binding regulation on which services the services of public authorities should be included in the range of services provided by the joint service point, but this proposal is based on the current type of contractual cooperation between public authorities, where the range of services is also determined on a contractual basis. The model makes it possible to provide services in a flexible manner, starting with the needs of customers and taking local conditions into account each time. The committee considers it important that, when planning the organisation of customer service and developing its service network, the authorities should take into account the guarantees of good administration provided for in the Administrative Law and the legal advice provided by the decision-making practice of the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament. The Committee notes that from this point of view, joint service can be a key service option. In addition, it should be noted that the competence of service advisors meets the relevant requirements of the customer service provided in the joint service. And then, of course, this report has raised criticism, this was not entirely unanimous, the opposition raised an objection to this motion for rejection of the report, and it was based mainly on the short period of time that this will be regulated, but I am sure that the representatives of the opposition themselves will be telling us more about it. However, the majority of the committee considered that there was no reason to delay on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u4	Madam President! This administrative reform is very welcome and has many good points. In particular, I wanted to highlight the view that the next significant group of excluded people will be so-called digitally excluded: many elderly people who are no longer able to manage their affairs because their digital skills are not capable of adapting to this rapid change in society. That is why it is important, as it says here, to pay particular attention to these people who are unable to manage their affairs electronically. This will be a growing group, and that is why I wanted to come here to mention that, while we all understand the importance and growth of digitality, it is unreasonable that this group of older people who do not control the use of smartphones should not be able to handle things even if they want to. There is a capacity for action, but in a way, the form society provides for this as a care path is impossible for them: call a telephone to a service number, from which it is then said that 'good day, if this is the case, choose 1; if this is the case, choose 9'. It would already require control of the use of the smartphone and an understanding of where to keep the various menus and tasks. It must therefore be ensured that, when these administrative reforms are carried out, they also clearly state that it is up to the municipality and the city to arrange a telephone number in which a person responds and guides the person personally, as if a person is available to a person. This group of digitally excluded people is going to grow. Finland is the fastest ageing people in Europe, so in every social service that we expect people to run independently now, we must also take into account the fact that we have a growing number of people who cannot rely on digital services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u5	Madam President! The shared service thinking of the administration is a good thing and it is valuable that it should be taken forward and not kept waiting for the other reforms that are going on. Here Mr Laukkanen spoke about the digital excluded and those who are unable to digitise or use electronic services, and this is precisely what we want to say about the possibility of doing something else. Here comes the education obligation and this type of thing. In practice, however, Mr Laukkanen spoke only of older people who would have these difficulties with digitalisation, and in fact it is not only so, but we have an increasing number of people who, for one reason or another, are failing to use digital services. That is why, when I read this report, I was somewhat surprised that, when we talk here about digitalisation and electronic services, there is nothing to be said about network accessibility in this regard, that the services that are also partly sought through electronic systems should be simpler. Web accessibility means that the visually impaired, the partially sighted, can work, but also that the paths are simple as they go. Anyone who has used the tax service, for example, knows that it is not very accessible even for those of us who use a lot of electronic services. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Eerola: did this accessibility of the online service cause any debate in this context — that there should also be bets on it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u6	Madam President! The issue of accessibility of this kind was not much discussed, and it was rather overlooked. As such, it was a very valuable speech at a time when you also pointed out this accessibility in these online services, some of which are very difficult. You've highlighted the website of the IRS. Last week I went there myself, and there was nothing coming when I was not going to find what I was getting there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u7	Madam President! In fact, in my speech, I wanted to concentrate very briefly and centrally on the elderly — of course I trusted Mr Heinonen to bring this up as an intelligent man and expand the debate, as he always does. But these older people are at present such a large number of people who are actually trying to keep up with it, are capable, able to function, who live alone but from whom these digital skills simply cannot succeed, so that this is a very important issue to raise to debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u8	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for his reply and, in fact, for taking a little catch on this issue. I personally hope that in all these reforms, where there are now stakes in digitalisation, we will take this web accessibility into account in a whole new way. And when we are in Parliament and a lot of people are on our website, and when there are different language versions, could there be such an accessible, easy, simple road in the future — it does not necessarily mean plain language, but it can also be a simple road in that direction but, above all, a simple road — to find the most important things? In the centenary year of Finland, the Parliament could also be a guide for all others, Kela, the Tax Office and others who operate online: we would be like the roadmakers in that the network can be accessible, and this means all online users. We have many services that are far too difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u9	Madam President! Mr Heinonen and Mr Laukkanen spoke of web accessibility. In this way, the threshold should be as low as possible when dealing with the authorities. Another aspect that keeps coming up is the payment of calls when calling the authorities. And in particular, situations where the customer has to queue for tens of minutes, in some cases for another hour, and waiting time is subject to a charge. I understand that the Ombudsman has also taken the view that this should not be the case, and I would like to draw attention to this here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u10	Mr President! There are already several speakers who have rightly called for account to be taken of the crowd of several hundred thousand people who do not themselves have the direct capacity to use online services. And it must also be borne in mind that libraries can also be provided, because the most important thing is that there is a system that works in every municipality so that everyone can have access to the service there and be happy to have guidance and guidance on how to use it. Then there is the question of the payment of these various services. This is an issue which should be comprehensively explained now, therefore, that we are increasingly going to a situation where people are in line. The Kela taxi is one good example: when you have to play it several times, it is very easy to talk about payments of almost EUR 10. In other words, a comprehensive statement should be made that this payment for services is not misused, especially because it has to wait for that service and wait in line and then it costs more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u11	Mr President! I share Mr Anttila's concerns about investing exclusively in online services. We have many examples that these online services are not yet everyday life for everyone. I will take one example from Helsinki: the Helsinki Vuosaari health centre switched from telephone services to online contact. As a result, the systems did not work. There was a situation for several weeks that ordinary people did not get normal contact with the doctor, great concern about how health matters were handled, and it is still not fully in order, even though repairs have been made for several months. We know there are other plans. Employment services, employment services are also being transferred to the Internet. Even sanctions are going to be passed on to the Internet so that machines automatically determine the sanction if you have not completed and told us every day what you have done. The Internet is certainly part of the service, but you should not build on it alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u12	Madam President! The honourable Members have indeed made excellent contributions here, and it is precisely this accessibility of the network that is really an important issue that must be taken into account in all activities when designing the systems of the authorities. However, I would like to draw attention to a point of view, from that Lappish perspective. We are going and exporting services strongly to the network, but we still have areas in this country where communications are not sufficiently comprehensive. In other words, in the context of the development of accessibility, it is necessary to ensure that this broadband construction is also speeded up. And it would be a great thing if, in honor of Finland as a hundred years old, we could commit ourselves to providing all Finns with the comprehensive broadband connection that it is possible to obtain at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u13	Madam President! That's an excellent conversation. When online services are increased, it will inevitably lead to a large number of benefits, i.e. those with high-speed broadband access, and then, without mercy, those who do not have this possibility fall away. That morning I was in contact with a subject that should have been specifically connected to the Internet, and I tried to reach a person on the phone. Of course, there was an online connection, but there was no way to reach a person on the phone. In other words, we are already in the situation in Finland to a large extent today that online services dominate the market and finding the real person who serves it at the other end is extremely difficult. This is why Parliament must take this seriously and, even if it is already in these negotiations, which are currently taking place, in the mid-term negotiations, it is the intention of the Finnish Parliament to provide clear appropriations for the construction of high-speed broadband connections throughout Finland. Many good documents have been made of this in this house, but the big breakthrough has not yet been achieved that there are genuinely broadband connections to build on optical fibre technology everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u14	Madam President! I welcome the fact that this debate has also been extended to the area of telephone services. Yes, this time a terrible example is that in this kind of situation we Kela have not been able to react in such a way that phone stringing in order to obtain these services would not be subject to a charge. This seems to be a bit harsh that our own national decision-making, on which the support of people with low incomes is dependent, is currently laundering those who are most in need of aid. Of course, we have some other retards. Legislation has now become mandatory for banks to issue BICs. But this time, for example, our domestic Osuuspankki Group is still unable to provide payment default marked people with banking credentials when the system is not in any way in order. Although we have been aware that this legislation will oblige banks, we still have hundreds of thousands of people who do not have bank IDs so that they can access the Internet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u15	Mr President! I would have liked to have just the other side of it said: Of course there are these problems that we should all have access to these services, and services must be provided, but we must also see those opportunities. Now, for example, in some building permits or similar permits, this job can be speeded up considerably when electronic licensing practices and the like are reached. In employment services, too, some of the people will probably be able to see that some of them are shown as an experiment and on the map, where to find jobs. So it is also worth using these advantages that can be found there. But of course it cannot be the only service for those who are unable to use it. It also involves infra-building and training, as well as making it easier to do. It also involves the perspective of information society professionals that they should make user interfaces that are really easy to use and not complicated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u16	One last comment, Mr Heinonen, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u17	Madam President! This debate may now have given the impression that it would only promote this digital side. I myself wanted to make this point because I am concerned about the issue of network accessibility. However, in this government proposal it is precisely now that we want to respond to the problems raised by Mr Heinäluoma that not everyone has the connections and opportunities, that is to say to safeguard the needs of those who do not know how or do not have the technical means to do their business solely by means of e-services. Which is exactly what they want to answer. But when those electronic services are part of it — and I fully agree with Mr Jaskar that they are welcome, for example, in various building permits and others — they too must be simple and there, too, this web accessibility is brought up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u18	And Mr Katainen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u19	Mr President! In this respect, colleagues have made quite commendable contributions to the wider range of services, or to the lack of what is particularly common in sparsely populated areas. After all, it is precisely the joint service points at this point, that is to say, the network which is hoped to expand in such a way that rural areas too have access to the same services as elsewhere. At the moment, that network of services is unfortunately few. There are provinces where, for example, only one municipality has a joint service point. Of course, this issue that has just been discussed extends, but for example, lack of broadband access is only one reason why it is impossible from the point of view of people's accessibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u20	Then on the list a little further.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u21	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the law on joint public administration services. This proposal is based on the current type of contractual cooperation between authorities. The proposal has excellent objectives and I hope that they will be implemented as soon as possible. The aim of the proposal is to promote equal access to customer service for public administrations throughout the country and to improve the efficiency of their activities. This is a challenge for the government enough, but I believe that it will succeed in the end. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Administration Joint Service is intended to update the system of shared services in order to make it easier for public authorities to have access to customer services throughout the country. Over the last couple of decades, the public authorities’ own network of offices has declined significantly and, as the requirements of economy and productivity increase, they still have the need to reduce their networks. The latest news for me is that Outokumpu’s small police station in North Karelia will be empty from the police as of 1 September 2017. Fortunately, the permit services will remain there, but the next item is Ilomantsi. These decisions contribute to the long-term goal of having only three police stations in the area of the police department of Eastern Finland: Mikkeli, Kuopio and Joensuu. This will certainly be the case, even if it is a gross underestimation of those living in the region. In any case, it is very important to consider the joint service as a complementary channel, to provide public service services equally throughout the country in the future, including in Ilomants. This proposal aims to support the development of digitalisation in accordance with the Government Programme and to enable the cost-effective maintenance of an adequate network of points of contact by creating a framework for the management of the central government and local government customer service tasks as a joint service. I welcome the fact that, in particular, the proposed changes to the system of shared services can contribute to ensuring the needs of those who do not know how or do not have the technical capacity to do their business solely through e-services. Madam President! It is proposed that the existing regulation be clarified in order to better ensure the implementation of the cost-benefit principle between the authorities involved in the sharing of the costs of organising the joint service. The proposed law will develop and diversify, according to the promises, the operating methods and service methods of the joint service. However, the law does not propose binding regulation of the services provided by public authorities in the range of services provided by the joint service point. The proposal is based on the current type of contractual cooperation between public authorities, where the choice of services is also determined on a contractual basis. The model provided for in the proposal would allow the provision of services in a flexible manner, starting with the needs of customers and taking into account local circumstances. In particular, this point is the best one in this proposal. In the future, the operations must be flexible and based on customer needs, not on public authorities. I also welcome the fact that the adoption and implementation of the proposed provisions can be carried out independently and are not directly dependent on future regional reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u22	Madam President! Accessibility of services is one of the key issues to be defined in relation to the service. If the service is too far away, it is not really a service that can be used. Therefore, it is good that the joint service points can at best bring the services that have already escaped close to people. In my homestead, Kivijärvi had a distance service experiment where Kela, the tax office, the labour administration and the police received permit services at a distance. Already in a few weeks it was discovered that the number of tens of thousands of kilometres from customers decreased, i.e. it was also the customer’s savings and very positive for the climate. However, the problem with these permit service points is that municipalities have experienced that they have to take care of customers’ business on their own, because someone in the head has to be there to give advice. Of course, there were video access possibilities here too, and sometimes the authority can come right on the spot, as in police services, for example. It's done on the pliers. But the distribution of costs has not been particularly clear, and I therefore welcome the fact that this is now being clarified and that the municipalities will not have to answer so much in the future to maintain the distance points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u23	Madam President! It is good that this presentation, which has been in preparation for a long time, is getting a little kick in the way. I think it is very important that these joint service points are developed in such a way that all Finns have equal access to services in a genuine way. However, it is not enough to have a high-speed internet connection to a joint service point, but to have a great deal of advice and support for the use of electronic services, and it also needs to be invested in it. The expertise of service advisors and these technical systems also need to be developed. Such a reasonable level of accessibility would thus be guaranteed, and it would therefore be very important for all authorities to commit themselves to this project and to bringing services to the joint service points. Of course, particular attention must be paid to older people, remote areas and also to personal advice. In the committee, the opposition has been particularly concerned about how this project will react to regional reform. However, it is good to take into account that this law and these systems have been developed in such a way that they are all right even after this regional reform, so I believe that this is a good project to take forward as proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u24	Madam President! Joint service point thinking and the starting point and what has been done for years are very good things. We have seen enough in many places to have the services of the municipalities and the state available from the same place, and I absolutely agree that the provision of these services needs to be developed so that they can serve even better. Here in the report there is a sentence that says that "the joint service aims to support the development of digitalisation and to enable an efficient and comprehensive network of points of contact by creating a framework for the management of customer service tasks by the state and municipalities at the customer points of the joint service". Yes, we agree on this. But when you look at the statement of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, it is said quite frankly that this presentation does not meet the challenges of the present state or the objectives of the proposal because there is nothing here about how to create equal access to services in the whole country — there will be no change — or how to ensure that state services are brought close to those where the municipality does not set up that point of contact. This was therefore the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which we thought was quite significant. However, if we think that the services are being improved, this law does not improve to the extent that they can be improved on an equal footing throughout Finland, but improve in those areas where they now happen — perhaps due to the activity of a municipality — to be, although it is of course good that they improve on that share. We have therefore gone to this protest, which is a disaster, because, although this is about content rather than the organisation of its activities, I am organising all the experts we had in committee who were working and working at the joint service points, and who are running them — those who were therefore employees of the public offices, local offices, regional councils, cities, TE centres or others — felt that this was an excessive administrative burden, but that they were constantly wondering how to deal with this issue during its provincial administration. In other words, the legislation that would then be in force for 22 months, and throughout that period this same group would be wondering how this will be organised during the period of the provincial administration, because then this type of joint service points, which we have today, will no longer be organised in the same way. For this reason, we do not think it is reasonable for the people who are now serving those people and carrying out regional reform to change their way of working in a new way during this 22 months. In other words, on the basis of this statement by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, that equal services do not increase, and because the staff within these joint service points are subjected to excessive work burdens, the administration, the administrative burden will increase, we have had to present this motion for rejection. So there is development and, for example, there was a presentation on the part of the municipality of Mikkeli — as I recall — about how this could be developed. Now, if these provinces come, then we should have a similar service architecture on the part of the municipality, the province and the state to make our systems compatible so that it is easier to use. And this should be developed, not so much to think about, at this point, how to get these digital services to people. It is important, yes, but at the moment this architecture does not really serve that goal when this whole thing is wide open. This is therefore a demonstration of this objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u25	Madam President! The whole of the 21st century has developed joint service points and their range of services and so is the case in this bill. That representative, Mr Paatero, in his motion for rejection, drew attention to the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, in which it is suspected that equal services will not increase. It depends precisely on the fact that the municipality does not set up joint service points, and I would see that it is the duty of municipalities to provide equal services for residents and to set up such points. That is what is at stake, which means that care is needed for the availability of human services. The main objective of the Co-Services Act is to secure citizens' services throughout the country and to provide these public administration services centrally in one place. They have been set up in many, many municipalities, and they have worked tremendously well so that smaller localities have also had access to these services. It is clear that, with the reform of the province, the need for these joint service points will grow and the skills of the people employed in them must be given particular attention so that they can then help people in these matters. The content of this bill is accompanied by a completely new approach in which electronic services can be sought by a customer terminal, remote services via a visual connection to different authorities, and then also by this dealings with the service advisor and also by the fact that the authorities will be on the spot to deal with these matters. But what is particularly important is that attention is paid to the skills of people, those who run the service points. It is absolutely crucial for the operation of the joint service points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u26	Madam President! It is clear that this proposal will significantly improve the current situation. I am particularly pleased that attention has now been paid to this fair distribution of costs. It has been a serious problem in many municipalities. The proposal now clarifies this point. Nor do I share Mr Paatero's view that this law would not increase access to these services and also the flexibility to organise them. It is quite clear that this matter depends very much on the activeness of the municipalities, but I personally believe that neither can we begin to impose new obligations on the municipalities in this economic situation, but must be the responsibility of the municipalities themselves in the way in which this joint service is organised. As the old Finnish proverb says: step by step the stairs are climbed. I personally see that we cannot now fail to adopt this law and therefore arrange for some 22-month break in which we would have no basis for its development. This law will also lay the foundations for how, at the time of the regional reform, joint services will be organised in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u27	Madam President! When the Christian Democrats do not have a member of the Administrative Committee, I have tried here, through this report and also through protest, to get inside the way in which this joint service point is actually being improved. Obviously, this principle of cost-effectiveness is now being better implemented here, which means that municipalities should then be compensated for what they are currently organising, but if I understood Mr Paatero correctly, there will be no new obligation on the municipalities themselves to organise these joint service points if they have not provided them up to now. Secondly, I would have liked to ask the potential members of the committee, who may still be here in the Chamber, about this concept of 'accessibility'. We have been talking here about these digital drives and those who are digitally excluded. But in what way is accessibility for disabled people, such as the visually impaired, in these services? Did it come up in any way during these hearings? Is it possible, for example, to receive these instructions, which are then available on the websites of the various authorities? Thirdly, I would have drawn attention to this when it is said here that the law also allows, for example, customer-oriented home visits with an appointment. How realistic is it really to expect, now that it is good to have all the authorities behind a computer terminal at the joint service point, that home visits can then be ordered, for example, in a remote area? If this is a reality — it came up in some hearings that there are such examples — then that sounds good, of course, but perhaps this is something that is not so good. Then there's this connection to the county law. It is now hard to prove here in this report that this is an independent proposal which is not in itself dependent on regional reform. If so, obviously this can be accepted as it is, without then having to wait for those regional law reforms. We would have liked to have heard more of the views expressed by the members of the committee during the hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u28	Madam President! First, a little bit of politics. It sounds strange that there can be so much disagreement in the centre: on the one hand, Mrs Hautala says that municipalities are obliged to do this, and on the other hand, Mr Kärnä says that I hope that this will not oblige that no new tasks can now be given to municipalities. In fact, this current legislation, if I have understood correctly, can continue to do so. I think it would have been more important at this point to prepare for regional reform and to take this alongside it and the resources of the staff they have to allocate to that new, future planning, so that it would also have been done together with the government. Yes, I personally have such a dream that we could have connected the post offices to this so that they would be a very important part of the joint service points, so that we would have been able to secure the e-mails and post offices now under threat of closure — which have already been abolished in many sparsely populated areas — because: However, the post office is an important part of the operational package of sparsely populated areas. It would have been possible to centralise licensing services. Now we have, in a way, money flowing from society to a single Norwegian company that delivers our permits with tax money. We should, in a way, take over this, that the money of society flows through the channels of society, when we have these joint service points, and when this has been seen in government and in the previous government that this is the way forward, then we would now have strengthened the status of mail and indeed produced our driving licences and so on in the state organisation of activities and there would also be financial support for the structure of the collective points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u29	Madam President! The development of joint service points is an important issue, and at least I myself thought I listened to Mrs Hautala’s speech in order to see that it was not an additional task for the municipalities, but that these joint service points were organised by the municipalities. In the coming weekend there will be elections, there will be new delegates — do they have ideas about developing joint service points? I think that this is something that needs to be under way all the time, and it is not worth waiting for the future province. Then, in due course, it will be transferred to the province, and the municipalities will still be organising the joint service points. Electronic services and the operation of wide-bands throughout Finland are absolutely essential for these joint service points to come for the purpose for which they are designed. Their accessibility, which has already been mentioned in many speeches, necessarily requires good electronic connections, and I hope that the broadband issue in Finland will proceed in this 100-year spirit, as has been hoped for in a few speeches, and at least that broadband from each house will be provided 100 metres away, as is the idea. The attention of the elderly and disabled in this joint service point is very important, and the definition of accessibility, whether it is a question of the visually impaired or the disabled, is important and should be taken into account. One thing that has not yet been raised here is that I would like mobile joint services to be something that could be developed. ♪ In my hometown ♪ In Kouvola, day-care centres are already a mobile service form. In the future, this could also be an alternative to further development of mobile services at the joint service points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u30	Mr President! This is not a very large proposal, and this is based on the current type of contractual cooperation between the authorities. After all, more than 100 opinions have been issued in the past, and almost all of them have generally welcomed this, but the main problems of contractualism were perceived as the diversity of services at different points of contact and the regional and local differences in costs. It is also important that these service points are no longer reduced and that their travels are not unduly long. And, as the previous representative has said here, there is no binding provision here for the services provided by public authorities in the range of services provided by the joint service point. In my opinion, this is a fine performance, despite all its smallness. If there is follow-up and there are any shortcomings, then there is always a chance to correct the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u31	President! Representative Essayah: since it now seems that the government parties will not answer questions, even though they support this, I will try here as an opposition representative to answer, even though I am opposed to this bill. For this usability: We did not come up in this connection, but in the Committee on Administration we have had European legislation, which is on the way and through which it is coming, but, as I have just pointed out, there is a need for some sensible coherence in this service architecture, so that we do not have these architectures of the future province, the municipality and the state in all network systems different and that is why, even without the Handicaps, there is no real difficulty in using them. There will certainly not be any more joint service points here, and a representative The diversity of service networks highlighted by Mäkipää does not change at all. This does not affect any of the networks at all. The point of contact has been good practice, and I fully support it, but now, in this timetable, such a change does not serve the objective that has been set for it. There was no example of such a thing being done at home. That's a funny idea, because it could be that now that employees from, among others, TE Centres and others are first dissolved in 18 provinces, after which their work input is a blank comma to some province and they work at that community service point, then someone with an appointment would reserve such a person to visit their homes, a wonderful idea. I will support the government if that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u32	President! Of course, these are difficult questions about usability, and I am thinking here of the fact that this bill actually implements the digitalization programme of the Sipilä Government and is a good one in itself. Well, when you think about these electronic services and community service points, there is this user advice that can be given at the joint service points also for digital services, and perhaps this will take you in the right direction. But when you look at the possibilities we have for using these digital services, we have mobile phones, iPads, laptops and computers and all have little of their own user interface challenges for people, so maybe we still need to do those reforms. All in all, then, if we look at the costs of this, we should look at the costs of the entire public administration as a whole. I think that savings will then be achieved by getting people to use more digital services and also by getting remote advice on how these services can be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u33	Madam President! This government proposal and report contain a great deal of good ingredients for us to move towards a truly and truly functional online service system in this country. This digital leap does not, of course, take place self-evidently, but it means, just as the committee's report says, that the authority must also advise these people. There can be no such way that a person who makes such digital services available, immediately would be an expert. From my own experience, I can tell you that when I first made a forest tax return and a VAT return online, it wasn't easy, but after the third time, when you're used to it, it's easy. But, especially for the older population, this is certainly a matter where advice is needed and, above all, that the state shoulders its responsibilities here. This is where the government dismantled. After all, we in Parliament are guilty of this because we have dismantled state service points from all over Finland. My municipality of residence has left the Social Insurance Institution's office, the Employment Office, and then the tax office is very much reduced, not at all. So the country itself has caused the problem. That is why we in the State must also manage it, give sufficient resources, that digital services are the future and that digitalisation is progressing, for which we can no longer do anything, but that is the responsibility of the State, and that is precisely through the construction of broadband networks. Otherwise, this will not work if we do not have fast broadbands to be born in this country everywhere. This is where we have the responsibility of the state, and that is why Parliament must take this issue seriously. I would like, for example, to see the ERDF money, the Structural Funds from the European Union, which there are millions of there. There is no better structural fund project than to put broadband networks in place in this country. It is competitively neutral for all people, for all companies and, above all, for long-term investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u34	President! Just two more flaws. One of them was mentioned here. Paying for waiting in line for Kela’s telephone service: This is an unreasonable situation that some people have to call, queue and pay for when it comes to asking for benefits and information and helping their own cause, and then you still have to buy speaking time on your cell phone so that these things can be dealt with. I think it was Mrs Myllykoski who quite well pointed out this problem. Then I would like to raise a point like the VAT accounting and its problematic nature. Many small business names have had challenges in how their accounts can be properly handled and how they can be made to leave the home machine. Perhaps some help could be found in these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u35	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 4/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u36	Madam President! In this proposal, which I believe has been produced with a very high quality report, in which we worked together a lot, we listened to a lot of experts and discussed, the key changes relating to spending money, operating money and pay for prisoners, how a prisoner could earn a small amount of spending during his time in prison, and how this system would support and strengthen this prisoner's activity. The system of financial benefits for prisoners is now quite complex, because it is based on a number of categories of pay and operating money that are not unambiguous and clear, and that is why this proposal now clarifies them. Actually, there are two things I would like to raise here to the debate. In view of this small amount of spending money, the committee was very much concerned about these high prices for telephone calls which are being charged in these closed facilities. The consultation showed that this is due in particular to the reform of the prison telephone system in 2014. When it was introduced, this system reform was accompanied by a huge increase in these telephone prices. In this way, it is a little problematic that if the prison is reformed, a prisoner will have to pay for it, and this was an interesting idea for us. If you turn this into plain English in a very practical way, it cannot be that if the chef’s salary rises in the prison kitchen, the prisoner’s meal will be reduced. And here it is a little bit the same that this is very funny and strange, and that is why the committee has made it very clear that this matter should be changed when the next time these telephone charges are put out for competition. Then the other one, which was discussed, was to bind the prisoners. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued an opinion on it, and it turned out that it did not work as the government had proposed it, and that is why the articles were removed from it. I am not going to repeat and read this content here; perhaps Vice-President Biaudet will talk more about this. All I can say is that our human rights-based legislation works well here. Although it is thought that it would have been a good idea to harmonise and simplify this incarceration of prisoners during transport in a certain way, there will then be these individual rights, that who can be bound in what situation and on what basis. It turned out that, from the point of view of the Constitution, it is necessary for everyone to decide separately what is to be done during its transport. I believe that the fact that human rights here are now clearly visible, that they work, that they are monitored and cared for is important as a process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u37	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! It is easy to pick up where Mr Laukkanen left off. He said that this human rights control, for example in this case, showed how our system works well. For it showed me that our system is working very badly. What is this all about? The Parliament unanimously adopted the statement proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and stated the following: "The Parliament requires that the government proceed as a matter of urgency to prepare legislative changes to ensure better security for the transport of prisoners." And in its report on the subject, 17/2014, the Committee on Legal Affairs considered it problematic that legislation does not allow for a decision to be taken on the binding of prisoners carried by transport. The Committee on Legal Affairs considered it necessary for the government to continue working on a provision that would better guarantee the safety of the transport of prisoners. According to the Committee, the relevant aspects of the provision could include, among other things, the number of prisoners to be carried and the conditions of transport. Cars used in urban areas are at a low speed and cars are forced to stop, which increases the risk of escape for prisoners, which may therefore pose a risk to safety. In other words, the Law Committee dealt with the law on imprisonment, noted the malpractice in certain situations, and even if it was necessary for the safety of other prisoners and the safety of staff, it could not be possible even for a short period of time to handcuff all prisoners in that same prison transport. The Legal Committee and Parliament required that the Government bring a proposal for a correction to this effect. Well, then the government did so, and on page 50 of the government's proposal there was then a paragraph that was in line with this — or it is said first that paragraph 1 had highlighted these basic conditions for individual consideration, namely prevention of escape and violent behaviour, but then paragraph 2 was added, which would read as follows: Without prejudice to Article 1, all prisoners transported in the same vehicle during short-term transport may be bound by "—and carefully—"in order to protect This commitment shall not be extended beyond what is necessary." Well, this certainly sounds very reasonable to me. Parliament hoped and the government suggested that in order to protect the safety of transport, the safety of persons, it would exceptionally be possible to handcuff all prisoners transported for a short time under this legislation. This proposal then went to the Constitutional Committee of Parliament for an opinion and the Constitutional Committee considered that this act was contrary to the Finnish Constitution. For the love of God, let us go to those prisoners and put handcuffs on them if it is necessary to secure their transportation, to protect the prisoners, to protect the staff — this must not be done, the Finnish Constitution forbids this. That is how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of Parliament came to think and, as Mr Laukkanen has just pointed out, we Members of Parliament think that, well, I suppose there is an article in the Constitution that denies this, or perhaps this interpretation is the only legally justified interpretation in this interpretation. Well, of course that's not the case. When I look at who has been consulted on these experts in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I recognise these old friends as very strict constitutional interpreters and, in particular, as over-committers of the accused prisoners, criminals' rights, I am not surprised that the unanimous Constitutional Committee has come to the conclusion that it must not now go to handcuff them, if it is necessary to guarantee the safety of the prisoners, in order to guarantee the safety of their transport, temporarily, in a short time, and in order to be bound immediately — how was it said here — when it is no longer necessary. I'm going to read again, "You can't keep binding longer than you have to." Well, here we are. I now want to hear from the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how you justify this. If there is no member of the Constitutional Committee here to give this answer, then I would suggest that the matter be put on the table at a recent sitting in order to hear one of the members of the Constitutional Committee tell us why it is contrary to the Constitution, that we, in the case of the transport of several prisoners — there are more dangerous prisoners and less dangerous prisoners — there are many in the same transport, for example, and they are being taken to trial — that we must not handcuff the prisoners in accordance with this motion, exceptionally, to everyone if it is necessary to ensure security. I would like to read this point made by the government: [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u50	It is understood that the next plenary session will take place. — — — — Next up, Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u51	Mr President! He can't be forgiven. — — — — This is going to get fucked up when Congressman Zyskowicz made such a big speech here. I think he did exactly what he often tries to do. He's actually talking about it completely. It is not a question of never being bound; it is a question of not being able to decide by mass transport, but of deciding on each prisoner individually. This is the big difference. And if he had bothered and did not want to spend other people's time in vain and yet Parliament's resources in vain and perhaps even the time of the various committees in vain, he would see that this is a practical challenge for one prison. They have old-fashioned equipment, they need one more car.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u54	Mr President! The committee's report before us on the amendment of the law on the law on imprisonment, the law on detention and the law on the enforcement of community sanctions is, of course, timely and certainly evoked by emotion, but I do not think that there is a storm at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u57	Mr President! It is interesting to listen to this debate on the basis of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and then on the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, it seems that the representative Mr Laukkanen summed up these key points quite well in his introduction. So, first of all, it is really important to see to it that, indeed, these reforms of telephone systems in prisons cannot result in, for example, these telephone prices being considerably higher than those of so - called freedom. And another important point is the clarification of the various so-called work money and similar levels and a certain kind of synchronization, so that it does not lead, for example, to a person choosing work on the basis of what, as it were, pays the best salary, even if it does not contribute to his life after his release. Well, then, perhaps on this point: as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Hoskone has explained with great merit that there are now a few such prisons in Finland and that these provisions relate precisely to these individual cases on the basis of consideration, which was then clearly stated in this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We must, of course, count on the fact that the committee has heard a lot of experts and that this matter has been thoroughly examined and that, on the one hand, this does not prevent this from being taken into account by other prisoners and, on the other hand, by others involved in transport, and that is, in my view, the most important thing. Mr Hoskonen said that these safety aspects have also been taken into account by modern means of transport, and I believe that this is the starting point for all this transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u58	Mr President! At the very beginning, I would like to apologise to Mr Biaudet for making fun of his degree. I regard Mr Biaudet not only as a very competent representative of Parliament, but also as a very competent lawyer, and I regret the fact that I was upset about it. That was not appropriate and, as I said, I apologise. But as far as the matter is concerned, the argument has now been such from both Mr Biaudet's side and Mr Hoskonen's side that, in practice, there is a prison in Vantaa and there has been some problems and now that these problems have been solved with the development of the transport equipment and perhaps in other respects, this is not the problem. Well, in fact, I did not pay much attention to these practical problems, but I drew attention to this aspect of principle. The Constitutional Committee did not, of course, consider whether it is a prison in Vantaa in Finland or whether it is a prison in Sukeva or whether it is another prison, but the Constitutional Committee wondered and its experts guided the committee in considering whether such an article was proposed to be added here, in accordance with the Finnish Constitution. Now we know that it is not in accordance with the Finnish Constitution that all prisoners involved in the same transport should be handcuffed, although "it is necessary to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u61	All right, let's take a short round of answers here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u62	Mr President! My legal studies are very modest: yes, I have read some of the laws of the forestry and real estate sectors, but I have not read this procedural or criminal law. What is important in this regard is, in my view, that when these modern transport vehicles already exist and every prisoner or person in custody there has their own space, which is safe for him — security is also the fact that if someone starts to ramp up there, he will not be able to cause harm to other people by rampage — that is the idea — if a car drives into the woods, then no one can escape, everyone will still sit safely in safety belts and so on. So this is a storm in a glass of water. Third point: When, for example, Sukeva or some other prison may not have these fine cars, the sad thing is that the police will then have to carry them in the back seat of the blacksmith in a closed space that is also safe. There's no problem. I understand this issue of human rights, and Mrs Zyskowicz is very impressed with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u63	Mr President! It is not a question of reducing safety, it is a question of how it can be secured and how it can be guaranteed. Does it have to be done to touch rights such as individual freedom and so on, or can it be done in other ways, so that we do not have to take such tough measures — that is what the constitutional review is all about, not that you feel that it was a better way or that you prefer it. The question is that when one person poses this danger, whether it is enough for him to be subjected to it, or whether this will also involve those who have no part in it. But, of course, it is a question of security and, of course, it is a matter for the authorities, for the State and for us to safeguard that security. It is possible to do so without violating fundamental rights in this way. Isn't that the ideal solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u64	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u65	Mr President! The report by the Legal Affairs Committee, and this debate now, does indeed make it clear that it is absolutely worthwhile to use this report as a justification for another matter which is still in progress there in the Legal Committee, that is to say, the thinning of the district court network. The Sukeva prison is the prison in which these prisoners are also present, and the closure of the district court office in Iisalmi is, after all, within this proposal. Many times in this Chamber it has been said that it is precisely of all these district courts that the abolition of which is not likely to bring any savings, because at present there is not enough room for both Varkaus and Iisalmi to be transferred to Kuopio and to have to build more, plus that the majority of the customers of the district court office in Iisalmi come from Sukevalta. That now means what Mr Hoskonen said. Personally, I do not know exactly if Sukeva has any kind of transport cars, but I have heard that, when there was enough police personnel to travel there earlier to visit Iisalmi, which usually took up to half a day, now that we start driving from there to Kuopio, which is almost 90 km away from Iisalmi and over 100 km from Sukeva, we need more police officers for this transport all day, and that will increase the cost. In other words, when we say that, for example, in such transports, it is not possible to use the fact that more prisoners are in such a so-called black hut at the same time and that there is no justification for it except on the basis of the individual case that these persons could be handcuffed, then this is even more likely to increase these costs for the state as a result of this abolition of the District Court of Iisalmi. I therefore hope that, if there are still members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights here, this report would be taken as a serious argument that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u66	Mr President! I have to say that legal studies are somewhat limited, but there is more knowledge of that aspect of the labour law. This debate made me wonder whether I have understood correctly — and I hope Mr Hoskonen will then be able to confirm or not to confirm my view — that this is a question, however, of a group whose common denominator is a prisoner at this point, and that common denominator cannot make a united decision for the whole group without violating fundamental human rights. In other words, this fundamental assessment can be made for everyone, if he is a threat, but I believe that the binding of a prisoner from whom expertise in the prison facility has been used to estimate that he is not a threat to other prisoners is unfounded — that he is bound because his common denominator is a prisoner with these others. This gives me the impression that, because of our own cultural heritage or the fact that we belong to a minority here in Finland, the freedom of individuals can be restricted without being justified in relation to the individual. In my opinion, if I have understood this correctly, it is now a question that the Constitution does not allow for solutions based on a single and one title that take precedence over the individual's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u67	Mr President! When reference has been made here to international human rights treaties, this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs refers to many international human rights treaties and recommendations, but it must be clear that this article, which is now being tabled by the government, according to the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee, is contrary to the Finnish Constitution, would not have been contrary to any human rights obligation binding on Finland. Secondly, this is where Mr Biaudet said that such tough measures are interfering with individual freedom. Well, I'm not sure it's a pretty tough procedure to put it in a closed cage, a locked cage, while it's being transported. It also sounds like a pretty tough procedure, but perhaps, perhaps, according to the constitutional experts — they are certainly experts — it is less difficult for an individual than to be handcuffed. But, Mrs Myllykoski, it is not that on some general basis — on the grounds that you are a prisoner or on the grounds that you belong to an ethnic group, for example — or on the grounds that you are in the same transport as some dismembered or otherwise dangerous rapist — you could also be handcuffed. It is not so, but there were many conditions in this government proposal: firstly, that it is short-term transport, secondly, that it is in the same vehicle, but thirdly, and, most importantly, that it is necessary — i.e. necessary, necessary — to guarantee the safety of the prisoner or other person. And it is also a condition that this situation is due to a large number of exceptional traffic conditions or other comparable reasons. And it was still stipulated that it could not be extended any longer. I understand, Mrs Myllykoski, that you are trying to understand for the best, and that is great, but it is not the case that just on some general basis
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u68	Mr President! Finally, on this point, the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs heard many experts, including Deputy Ombudsman Jussi Pajuja. After all, the Ombudsman monitors the conditions in prisons for treating prisoners as required by the Convention on Human Rights and for human dignity in general. Professor Olli Mäenpää and Professor Kimmo Nuotio were also consulted, and then Professor Lavapuro gave his opinion and Professor Martin Scheinin also gave his opinion in writing. After all, the latter expert is an internationally respected human rights lawyer. In my opinion, this aspect of human rights was quite well dealt with here, and also the fact that when a prisoner or a person in custody is taken away for trial, his rights will be taken into account and that there are, of course, other prisoners involved in the transport, in many cases, that their safety will also be taken care of. You have to remember that when that transport leaves, of course, the doors are not open in that car, it is already locked when it leaves. So the front doors are locked. There's no way out. Whether it is behind one lock or behind two locks, I do not think it is relevant in this matter, because, however, we must ensure that people are taken to the Court of Justice safely and returned to their own place safely and without endangering the safety of any other outside person. That's what we have to do. And since the instructions of the Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe give this opportunity and this must be done, I think it is quite right. Of course, legal semantics can be very cultivated as to whether this went according to all the stylistic points, but once a person has committed a crime and has been imprisoned, he must, of course, put up with the inconvenience, because there is a very, very different situation from what we are used to outside here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u69	Mr President! Perhaps we should not continue this debate for a long time now, all of us are in a hurry for the elections. But there could be a long debate about the fact that, in the opinion of a member of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Hoskonen, a prisoner who is being transported to a hospital, to a trial or elsewhere, should be put in a locked car and that is not enough, but in a locked car, he will be put in a locked cage, as Mr Hoskonen used the expression. That's what he has to put up with. But if he should tolerate being handcuffed because it is necessary to guarantee the safety of other prisoners or other persons, it is unconstitutional. This prisoner should no longer tolerate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u70	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u71	Mr President! I support the aim of this government's proposal to reduce environmental licensing. It is a good thing that authorisation is abolished for a number of activities that are estimated to have limited environmental impacts and are transferred to the registration procedure. In this case, their environmental protection requirements are laid down by Government decree. In this way, the requirements of the Regulation are the same for all operators and for operators compared to operating licences. Here we also propose, in part, raising the authorisation threshold for the reasons for the reasons for the government's proposal, and the Environment Committee, on the basis of the report it has received, has also considered the proposal to be necessary and appropriate. I agree with the committee. Mr President! This proposal will continue the government's policy of dismantling red tape, streamlining administration and allocating resources to the right priorities, while at the same time ensuring that measures to reduce administrative burdens do not jeopardise the level of environmental protection and that the right of citizens to participate in environmental decision-making is safeguarded. Mr President! This is a good line, and this is a good one to go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-05-ps-35.u72	Mr President! The committee's report is very commendable, and this report is precisely the government's line of action which, during this parliamentary term, seeks to eliminate as much red tape as possible. These standards are being dismantled and, above all, the aim is that if, for example, an entrepreneur has previously been caught in that permit jungle and has then been prevented from doing business and, at the same time, has not been able to find the much needed jobs, these red tape traps will be dismantled by small changes of this kind. It must be remembered all the time that we have some EUR 2.9 billion worth of projects standing in the authorisation procedure in the various authorities or courts. I believe that every project there is is the most stable idea of the applications made honestly by traders or entrepreneurs and those papers are just standing there for some reason on a bureaucrat's desk. In this country of Finland, we really need to make a clear change now, both in Parliament and also in the ministries and other authorities, that we can mobilise these investments. Looking at that Finnish economy and the rate of indebtedness, we can only agree that Finland's wheels must be turned around. This is for the benefit of everyone, and it is for the benefit of those unemployed who do not yet have a job.
