ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 16 May 2017. In the debate, Lauri Ihalainen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has proposed that the bill be rejected. Sari Essayah, supported by Peter Östman, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u2	First, we have to vote on the adoption or rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u3	Finally, the first and second statements contained in the report and the statements made in the debate must be decided. Mr Jaskar's draft statement will be put to the vote against the first draft statement contained in the report. Sari Essayah's draft statement, Kaj Turusen's 2nd draft statement and the 2nd report. the draft opinion concerns the same subject, so the first vote will be taken on Mr Kaj Turusen's proposal for a statement by Mr Essayah. against the proposal for a statement and against the second one contained in the report which has since won. Finally, in addition to the statements contained in the report, the vote will be taken on the first draft statement by Mr Kaj Turusen against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u5	Mr President! In November 2015, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government directed that responsibility for the organisation of social and health services should be transferred from municipalities and joint municipal boards to 18 autonomous regions, the province. Social welfare and health services would be provided by regional businesses and by companies and self-employed persons owned by regions, private and organisations in the market. In social and health care, public and private service production requirements and controls are currently different. The private provision of health care and 24-hour social services requires permission from the licensing authorities, the inspection of premises and equipment and the self-monitoring plan, while there is no similar procedure in municipal service production. The restructuring of social and health care services through the regional and social welfare reform also requires a reassessment of the operating conditions of service providers. The way in which healthcare services are provided has undergone significant changes in recent years. The outsourcing of healthcare services under the responsibility of municipalities and the use of purchasing services are current phenomena, as are the subcontracting of services related to outsourcing. Subcontracting also increasingly exists between service providers. The proposal proposes a single law on the provision of social and health care services, while abolishing the law on private social services and the law on private health care. In this context, Parliament decided in December, in the context of the legislation on the concentration of emergency care and special medical care, that if there is no emergency care at the hospital, day surgery cannot be carried out either. As a result, the public and private were placed in an unequal position. The purpose of the proposal is now to ensure the customer and patient safety of the customer using social and health services, to ensure good quality services and to promote cooperation between the service provider and the authorities. The Act would lay down the operating conditions and registration and supervision of social and health service providers. The law would not apply to the free and occasional production of services. Instead of the authorisation and notification procedure under the existing legislation on private social services, it would require both the service provider and the service unit to be registered in the register of social and health care providers and a decision to register. The registration procedure would also apply to public service providers. Registration would be conditional on the service provider and the service unit meeting the economic, operational and administrative conditions which are quite diverse. The register supervisory authorities would be the Social and Health Authorisation and Control Agency and the Regional State Administrative Agencies. In addition, the law would also provide for means of ex post control, mainly in line with current regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u6	Madam President! Public social welfare and health care will change radically when the Regional Law, the Law on Social Welfare and Health Care and the Act on Freedom of Choice enter into force from the beginning of 2019. On the public side, the organiser and the producer are separated and municipalities do not have any role in social welfare and health care. This government proposal is therefore a very important part of the overall reform of social security. However, social reform is not the only reason for this proposal. The law governing private health services is already over three decades old, although it has been revised over the years. The law governing private social services is relatively recent, but there are differences in these laws that do not really have proper grounds for doing so. However, Mr President, the production of private services has changed radically in recent years and decades. We all know that large private social and health service chains have conquered the social and health markets. Of course, there are, and will be, small family businesses, especially if they can be made easier, for example, in the way proposed in this draft law. Another reason for the bill is that in recent years the range of social and health services has also changed so that there has been more distance and online services. Traditional site-linked services have also been transferred to services such as those provided in the customer’s homes, and there are no suitable provisions for such new types of services on the basis of existing laws. At the end of last year, the number of private social services operating units was around 7,500, and the value of private social services is already about one third of the value of social services in the country. At the end of last year there were as many as 38,500 private health services establishments, of which 25,000 for private professionals. The value of the private health service accounts for about a quarter of the country’s health services. Of course, even in accordance with the current rules, some do not need an actual authorisation, but even the notification procedure is not quite easy. The authorisation procedure is demanding, employing supervisory authorities and amending municipalities. While almost as heavy is the procedure when changes are made, there has indeed been considerable red tape. While working at the health centre, I myself have carried out just this type of inspection, which has actually seemed completely empty. This bill, Mr President, moves from authorisation to registration. The registration is based on the notification procedure of the service provider and on pre-defined criteria for acceptance of the registration. Of course, for example, hospitals or demanding social service providers are left with a heavier procedure, which can also be replaced by certification. The legislative proposals also include the possibility of facilitating the registration of, for example, joint receivers and joint offices by selecting a shared responsible service provider. As such, the draft law will reduce bureaucracy and the associated costs for private service providers. Of course, this bill brings more red tape to public service providers, who, following this amendment of the law, will be subject to exactly the same rules as private services or services provided by organisations. The draft law on social welfare reform also relates to the fact that the register of service providers will also be available to customers of social welfare and health services. For their part, this will help customers when they choose a service provider suitable for themselves in the future. Mr President! I've been trying to get to the bottom of this government bill. In essence, it seems to be clear and very necessary. However, there is a great deal of detail in the proposal which requires careful examination by the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u7	Mr President! Here, in the previous speech, the basic purpose of this legislation was well presented. It is good that the so-called standards have already been taken into account when we are moving to the registration procedure for the authorisation procedure. But what worries me most is that this social welfare reform now opens up this private service production and public service production in parallel — both in company form most often — and yet there are higher pension liabilities on the public side. I hope that this issue will be dealt with here in Parliament in particular, both in this law and in the whole reform of social security, because, against this background, higher pension liabilities will make these public actors already 6 percentage points less competitive than private sector operators. Not to mention the fact that the market is already divided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u8	Congressman Keränen, did you ask for an answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u10	Madam President! This legislative package, which is essentially aimed at treating social and health care providers with the same principles of registration and supervision, regardless of their legal form, must in principle be supported and is certainly necessary in the light of social welfare reform, but yes, this proposal contains the elements and objectives which should in any case have been laid down independently of the social welfare reform. At the moment, especially from the point of view of small health care companies, bureaucracy in this registration and licensing practice is quite unreasonable. According to current legislation, for example, it is necessary to apply for separate authorisations for the proper functioning of different healthcare providers, depending on the situation, which produces a great deal of extra work and extra costs and also has a competitive disadvantage in terms of these small companies compared to large companies. For example, if a small dental firm, which is setting up a business in the capital region, for example, plans to expand its activities to Tikkurila and Hämeenlinna, it will have to deal with the same licensing bureaucracy with the authorities of various regional government agencies each time. I hope that this package will bring relief and reform to this end. I hope that this will be examined specifically by the Committee on Small Enterprises and these health care companies,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u11	Mr President! This bill, which is now in the referral debate, relates to the government's reform of social welfare and regional government and to the legislation on freedom of choice that is now under preparation. It is certainly the case, as Mr Räsänen said, that some of these things should have been done anyway, but this is part of the big picture. At such a general level, from a government proposal, it is a good thing that regulation is harmonised and that private and public service providers and service entities are subject to the same operating conditions. Uniform conditions for service providers ensure the quality of services and customer and patient safety. Our common goal is to secure high-quality social and health services. However, I would like to draw attention, President, to the self-monitoring plan, on which the government's proposal states that it must be 'publicly kept on the Internet'. It would be a good idea to be more specific, precisely on the Internet, where the self-monitoring plan must be on the table. Is it intended that the self-monitoring plan should be available, for example, on the website of each service provider, or how is this done? The plan should be easy to use by the authorities for the success of ex ante control. This is particularly emphasised by the fact that, according to the proposal, the premises will no longer be inspected except where necessary. It may increase the risks for patient safety. It is therefore necessary to ensure adequate resources for the supervision of the authorities and to ensure the effectiveness of self-monitoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u12	Madam President! There have been excellent speeches here to introduce this legislation, but I am deeply sorry that the rapporteur's minister is not here to present this and listen to the views of the representatives or to answer our questions. Madam President! As has been said here, this bill is part of the reform of regional and social welfare and health care. In principle, the legislative proposal is a good one. It harmonises regulation, as has been said here. Uniform conditions for service providers ensure the quality of services and customer and patient safety. However, it has already been said here that the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities of November has taken note of the fact that the draft proposal clearly reflects the dual nature of the preparation. When applied to private service production alone, the whole seems prudent, but the extension to public service production seems unjustified and, in part, even contradictory. I am also involved in self-monitoring. This proposal highlights the importance of self-monitoring, which, in my opinion, is a good thing. Self-monitoring needs to be developed and supported in this respect. The self-monitoring plan shall be available to the registry authority for the purpose of carrying out ex ante controls. I would also like to ask something similar to what Mrs Tuppurainen said in her own speech: how will this be implemented in practice? The Internet is one good option and can be used in part, but in practice the self-monitoring system should be available to customers, possibly where customers use the service, and they should be able to assess the self-monitoring plan and whether and whether the service provider produces and executes the services with the quality it provides in the self-monitoring plan and also give feedback that this self-monitoring can also be developed through it. According to the proposal, the premises will no longer be inspected only if necessary. This may also increase the risk of patient safety, which is why the resources of regulatory oversight must also be safeguarded. Madam President! Firstly, as has been said here, this is part of the reform of social welfare and health care, which states that all service production must be incorporated. In some respects, this proposal will ease this administrative burden, but there are still situations in which this will increase and make it more difficult to set up companies, for example. The proposal will, for example, increase the administrative burden on small businesses and former professionals, such as dentists or doctors. This will drive small operators into chains that take care of the administrative obligations imposed by the Production Act. This is unfortunate because the aim has been to reduce administrative tasks and enable small businesses to enter the market as part of the social welfare reform. Now, however, this proposal is going in the other direction. The end result is that the number of small enterprises will not increase as expected. We have already had indications of this by the Evaluation Council, which estimates that the number of small and medium-sized enterprises will not increase as expected, but that this will enable the number of large companies with more than 250 employees to triple. Mr President! I am convinced that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will take account of the amendments and the positions that have been well expressed here in previous speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u13	Mr President! At present, Valvira and Avi are particularly concerned with a well-functioning self-monitoring plan. It reflects the responsibility of service providers for their own service production, its quality and the problems it poses. The objective of the self-monitoring plan is to clearly define the measures to be taken by the service provider in the event of deviations. In this way, the scarce resources of the service enforcement authorities are sufficient to carry out supervisory tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u14	Madam President! The government's proposal for a law on the provision of social and health care services is now on the table. Its purpose is to ensure customer and patient safety and to ensure good quality services, to promote cooperation between the service provider and the authorities. The Act would lay down the operating conditions, registration and supervision of social and health service providers. It is very important that future services are patient-proof, good and high-quality. That is the essence of this bill. We are talking here about self-monitoring, which is also a matter that is not quite a story, but that we really need control and clear measures if self-monitoring does not work and there are some sort of problems. It is also very important when laws are drawn up and adopted to listen to the statements made in the draft proposal. This time they have become 246 copies and have unanimously supported the draft law: it has been found to reduce administrative work and also improve control possibilities. And the commentators have welcomed the proposed tasks of the responsible service provider and the supervisory authority's means of addressing the shortcomings in customer and patient safety. However, it is very important that, while we are doing the law, the resources of the supervisory authorities are also safeguarded. Of course, it is always important that when it is done, it should also be monitored. And in addition to the law, we still have a patient ombudsman and a social ombudsman who are also part of the customer's ability to lodge complaints or complaints about the treatment they receive, if it has not been quite right. Valvira and Regional State Administrative Agencies in the social welfare and health sector will also remain register and supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u15	Mr President! It has already been said that there are 38500 service providers in the health sector, of which 25,000 are private professionals. If I have understood this correctly, then this legislation, which is now under way in the course of the war, will lead to these 25,000 private entrepreneurs being forced into a limited company. And I know there's a lot of pain about it. I have received a great deal of communication about this, that why should they now start to enter into a business, because at the same time they have to compete with large companies for the same customers. I really hope now that this bill, as well as the social welfare reform, is being prepared in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that you will pay particular attention to the need to dismantle this approach of the private professions, which has so far worked very well and has been a local service. These professionals have a fixed customer base to a large extent and have been able, for example, to organise their services in such a way that they meet the needs of the customers and all their evening receptions. Is it now necessary, in this situation, to drive down this system of professionalism in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u16	Madam President! In this bill, the transition to red tape and the notification procedure is of course a good thing, and being on the same line as the providers of healthcare services in both the public and the private sector has actually been the starting point for this whole social reform. The private sector does diversify our service production, and this is good from the customer’s point of view. As far as self-monitoring is concerned, this is, of course, fundamental and it is good that this law also pays attention to it. I would also like to take as a basic point the starting point that, now that we have more and more freedom of choice, the customer must have confidence in that service provider, and through this self-monitoring it can be demonstrated. And when the service provider is chosen for himself, it is the fact that it works and patient safety above all that is the starting point for those customers to be able to get. Madam Speaker! I would like to draw attention to this myself, as this is, of course, the first thing we need to have: patient safety must be in order. But it is also a rather sensitive appeal, and it is easy for us laymen in the industry to bring it up very strongly, and it sometimes leads to decisions that are not even necessary. There is personal experience of this, among other things, in the resolution of your local hospital, where the leading doctors constantly called for patient safety, although there was no evidence of this, no malpractices, no incidents or others, but there was a desire and strong focus on patient safety, so patient safety in small units can actually be on the same line as in larger units. All in all, services must be ensured and the public sector is the number one that the private sector then complements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u17	Madam President! In the course of this debate, there have been somewhat different and contradictory views on the practical effects of this law. The aim here is precisely to harmonise and streamline licensing and supervision practices, and there is an obvious need for this. It is precisely in view of these private health care services that their licensing practices are currently far too bureaucratic and burdensome, especially for small businesses. Now, I think it is important that the committee carefully examines and hears the points of view of companies of different sizes, both health and social services, so that there are no such pitfalls that do not actually make things easier for these entrepreneurs. There is, of course, the aspect here that, from the point of view of public service providers, these licensing practices become somewhat more burdensome, because these practices are harmonised regardless of the legal form of the service provider. But then, thinking of the customer, the person who needs the service, I do welcome the fact that both the supervision and registration practices are consistent, whether private or public, regardless of whether the service provider is a public service provider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u18	Madam President! It is vitally important that social welfare and health care reform, whatever it is, adheres to the big principle that social and health care services are provided to people throughout Finland as local services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u21	Mr President! There has been talk of this self-monitoring plan a few times. Article 9 of the draft law explicitly states that the self-monitoring plan must be published on the Internet and must also be available at the site itself. Mr President! Mr Anttila and Mr Hokkonen spoke of these small entrepreneurs. This law itself even brings relief to these small entrepreneurs and professionals. Instead of dealing at the same time with the law on the organisation of war and the law on freedom of choice in committee, there is a problem here that, according to these proposals, perhaps the social centre is required to have too much and too wide a choice today, and it may be necessary to try to find a way in which these small businesses will remain in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u22	Madam Speaker! In this speech by Mr Hoskonen, I would like to express my own opinion, which relates mainly to the provision of private health care services in rural and peripheral areas. I come from the region where health services have been outsourced to a social enterprise. Here Alavus, Kuortane, Soini and Ähtäri form a social company, i.e. Kuusolinna Terveys Oy, together with Pihlajalinna. We are indeed located in the periphery of the province. The experience of this has been good. In addition to the very high cost savings — which, among other things, has greatly improved our local government finances — the service level has been maintained, care chains are effective, treatment is quickly available, the right doctor is quickly directed and the right care is quickly provided. I would simply like to remind you that these working models also exist and that these working models should also be maintained in the future. It is quite true that there may also be risks as to whether all large companies operate under the same rules of the game. This social responsibility must now, if ever, be emphasised when freedom of choice is increasing and these producers are also involved in the market. But when there are responsible actors, there are good models, they are worth taking advantage of and from experience. This time we now have positive experiences in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u23	Madam President! I fully agree with Mr Anttila on the legal point relating to the professions. This law no longer recognizes the professionals, but all the service activities carried out in the reform of social and health services must be enforced. And there is also the concern that Mr Hoskonen has raised about the need for all services to be incorporated into social and health services. With these prospects, it seems that freedom of choice requires this to happen. And contrary to what Mr Keränen said, this should ease the administrative burden on small businesses and professionals, these small businesses and professionals, including the Dental Association and others, have made a specific statement in their own statements that this legislation will increase their administrative responsibilities, the administrative burden. As a result, professionals will no longer be able to work as a professional, but will either set up their own companies or chain these activities together, thereby ending their activities in this current form of professional law. They also regretted and regretted that they had not been heard in the context of this government's proposal. On this point, I fully agree with Mr Anttila: I would have liked to see the legislation of these professionals looked at in a different way and, on the other hand, we would give up this so-called compulsory company which the government is now taking forward in this social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u24	Mr President! The approach highlighted by representative Savola is very interesting, and it would be nice to hear more about it. After all, we now have a situation in Finland, for example in our own province of Päijät-Häme, where when these production outsourcings have been carried out in Sysma, for example, then suddenly we find that we have too many employees, and even now we are in Sysma in the middle of the negotiations. And here we come to the whole of how the service level in a small municipality will be in the future, whether it is at all, how the information system side, how to find funding for a small entrepreneur, even the medium-sized one, to integrate into this great world. And as fine as it sounds, it is very challenging, if not impossible, to treat everyone equally. But then there is one more word about the provision of services and its future. Now that we are dealing with this gigantic package of social services, I have wondered very much about it, which is why Finland now wants to put this production of social services under European competition law. No one's gonna make us do it. No one is forcing us to bring the Finnish social and health system under European Union competition law. What does this mean, then, in the provinces, in the municipalities when this comes into force? That's a good question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u25	Madam President! With regard to Mr Kiljunen's speech, I would first of all like to say that I hope, and I believe that this will happen, that you in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will properly hear and listen to the various parties that have not been adequately taken into account in the preparation. But then to this speech that, with the reform of social services, all social services must be incorporated. This is not the case, of course, but the intention is that services which compete with other service providers should be incorporated. And why do we have to do this? It is because the whole idea here is that those who compete in the same market would enter this competition from the same line, and the incorporation will also ensure the transparency and comparability that are needed between the various service providers. When it comes to this incorporation and when it is always criticised when it comes to social reform, I cannot help but ask: If we put the patient, the citizen, the customer, at the heart of the matter, what is the problem for him as to what the legal structure of the service provider is? What does it mean to him whether it is a company form behind a service provider or a business form, or whether it is a service directly run by a municipality or a province? Is it not, from the point of view of the person and the customer and the patient, that there is access to services, that there is quality of services and, at least, that I consider important, that there is also cost-effectiveness of services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u26	Madam President! Indeed, there are rules of free competition under European Union competition law and then these possible sanctions if the rules of free competition are violated, and it is true that, with the reform of the social economy, this kind of oasis of bureaucracy will be opened up. It is an indisputable fact, and with fear I think about that situation. This bill, which is now being discussed, is good when bureaucracy is being dismantled, and I support it, but the social reform in general — these social security packages that are now under discussion are, in a way, covered by the social law above — is linked to the problem of the liberalisation of competition, that when free competition is in force and we have dismantled this system of our own, then we will be at the mercy of these large international companies and their lawyers. Every single tender can be appealed against, and then on the other side — not on the side of this small entrepreneur, but on the other side of the complaint — the legal armies of those large international companies when they attack this small entrepreneur, it is certain that every single trial will disappear. You can't do that to a bunch of mortals with little money and modest legal skills. If you don't hire a hugely expensive lawyer to help yourself in the trial, you'll certainly lose that competition in court. That is why Parliament must now honestly discuss this issue. What do we really want in this country? However, it is a cold fact in Finland at the moment that, if you look at the average municipality in Finland at the moment, the social and health services are relatively good. Local government finances strengthened last year by EUR 450 million. My municipality, too, produced a surplus of nearly one million last year under modest conditions. Nevertheless, health services work well and people get their services. I don't see a crisis. I am in favour of development and reform, but I will never be in favour of giving these transnational companies a competitive advantage that small companies will never be able to achieve with their own purse.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u27	Madam President! At this stage the debate should be clarified, which in the end is what is at stake in this proposal, which is being discussed. The aim here is to continue to enable high-quality, effective and safe social and health services, taking into account the changed operating environment and new forms of service. The aim is therefore to harmonise and streamline existing regulation to the extent possible without endangering customer and patient safety, taking into account the new ways in which services are provided and to allocate the available public authorities resources in an appropriate way. The aim is for both private and public social and health service providers and services to be registered in the same register of service providers. The aim is therefore to harmonise, reduce red tape, make things more flexible and more customer-friendly. I believe that this is a good step in the direction in which we have wanted to take this whole system in the reform. Finnish healthcare deserves a more modern, high-quality and flexible approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u28	Madam President! The representative, Mr Skinner, asked about our service production model, the social enterprise in the region of the Kuusiokunta of South Ostrobothnia. This is, of course, based on an agreement which has two key elements: the definition of service levels and costs. In practice, this is correlated with these two factors. Of course, there are challenges: Integration into this larger entity will certainly be the key factor, how the services will be integrated into each other in the future, when the province organises them and there are these different production methods, either regional or smaller production areas. And one of these will certainly be information systems, as you mentioned. But we are now looking for solutions at national level to ensure that our information systems work and that patient information is properly passed on to the necessary extent. It is, of course, at the regional level how the organiser views these different producers in the region. Of course, the agreement will define for a long time what has already been agreed and those agreements will be transferred, and parts of them will certainly also be renegotiated, but the fact that the organiser's attitude towards the producer is fundamentally positive is a basic prerequisite for everything. Representative Skinneri, we are happy to present this model on the spot. Welcome to the Gauntlet any time. I'll buy you a nice bun coffee, and then we can talk about this with the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u31	Madam President! When Mrs Zyskowicz asked what difference does it make as to which service provider the customer receives this service from, and most importantly, of course, the most important thing for the customer is that he receives a good and high-quality service and that his life situation is taken into account as a whole. But this law and the reform of social security and this compulsory company: as a result, well-functioning services will have to be broken down, broken down, possibly broken down into smaller entities, businesses, social services centres and, consequently, also separate companies, which are so-called subcontracting companies. As a result, we will have different administrative boundaries, different operating cultures, and as a result of this whole, integration will become even more difficult to operate. And the management of the service package from the customer's point of view will be difficult when this customer's service package is broken down for different operators. When this freedom of choice and responsibility is transferred to the customer himself and his family, in practice this entity is the one that adds to the problems here. Companying as such is only one system, but when it is implemented in this way, how the reform of social welfare and health care is now being implemented through compulsory companyisation, it brings this problem. And it is not in all respects the most sensible in terms of social and health services or the overall situation of customers. That is what we are criticising.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u32	Madam President! I would like to thank Mrs Anneli Kilju for her reply, because I believe that this incorporation is going to be a huge bogeyman, a huge problem, and in these opposing speeches I have very rarely heard the justification and explanation for what is the problem from the point of view of the patient, its client, in the legal form in which this service provider operates. Now I've got a representative. From the scream to the point of view of him. As far as this difficulty in integration is concerned, it can be seen, but I would like to remind you that it is clearly the province's obligation as a service provider to take care of this integration. It is quite clear that the province should not accept service providers who, in agreements between the province and service providers, do not commit themselves to everything that this integration of service providers requires. The county as the organiser is responsible for integration and the county as the organiser of the services can and must require that those who wish to be service providers in this new system commit themselves to all the requirements that are justified in order to ensure this integration. Mr Kiljunen, I understood, in the final analysis, that the quality of the patient's service may be impaired as a result of this incorporation and the resulting factors. Personally, I am firmly convinced that the reform of social services and freedom of choice as part of it will be particularly important to improve the quality of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u33	Madam Speaker! I can well understand Mr Anttila's point of view and Mr Hoskonen's concern about what will happen in the future, but from a principle point of view I also understand Mrs Zyskowicz's point of view about leaving the same line. From the patient’s point of view, it is essential to be able to trust the one you choose. I am not so familiar with this issue. Mr Zyskowicz, as a second lawyer, can find out whether the incorporation is merely a form of limited liability company or which company is the one with which you can move. After all, the share company is a reasonably rigid form, and there are other, more flexible forms of company. I'd like an explanation. The fact that a service provider could be in this kind of more flexible form of company would make it a little easier for the pain that exists here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u34	Madam President! To this further analysis by Mr Zyskowicz of the market and integration. Firstly, the province is given a huge responsibility for the organisation of these services and the problem is compounded by the fact that the province does not have access to the service processes produced by service providers in their own companies. But of course the province is responsible for the service package and what services are produced in which service production. Our market-driven, could you say, our markets, our production markets, do not work in the way we might wish for public services and their regulations to work, but the market is based on the fact that there is, in principle, a competitive position, there is competition for customers. And then, when these different companies, even Health Centre, Attendo and then Bee, all are expected to have strong cooperation and integration and yet at the same time compete for the same customers, the same services, it may be that market-driven thinking does not fit in with our integration approach, which is related to the overall service production of customers, which is managed by the province. In that sense, this size, could I say, is a philosophical starting point for this market economy, when we talk about integration and working together and cooperation, not only does I think it happens the same way as it could happen for some other services. And in that respect, this is very challenging. Our common will is certainly that customers will receive a better and more comprehensive service in the future, but will it succeed with a government proposal, and I am very uncertain about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u35	Madam President! I agree with Mr Kiljune that the regions have a huge responsibility in this new system of social services, and it is therefore very important that the provinces, when they recruit key staff there in due course, take into account the enormous responsibility and the knowledge and expertise it requires from the regions and their key leaders and other actors. As far as this integration is concerned, I tried above to describe the responsibility of the province, but it also has power. In other words, the whole system of social services, the provision of services by taxpayers, must not involve those who would not agree to the conditions imposed by the province and which are linked to the fact that this integration, which is primarily based on information management, can work and can be implemented. It is true that the market has its own logic, but the starting point here is that the market is being made taxpayers' men, it is not being made masters, and that is why the province must know the public interest that it has in this context, in such a way that these different market players are placed in the position of its public interest. I agree with that and I must admit that, of course, this huge reform involves considerable risks, and it is clear that this will not be completed once and for all, but that many new decisions will have to be taken at both legislative and regional level. As far as Mr Juhantalo's question is concerned, I understand that companies other than limited companies, such as cooperatives, also go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u36	And that was the last time I was asked to speak. — — — — Did you wish to make another reply, Mr Jaskari? Did you just ask for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u37	Mr President! I still wanted to discuss the risks that exist in this case if we do in the form of a company. I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that responsibility will be strong in the provinces. But that question is very much related to the kind of requirements they are required to meet, integration requirements, effectiveness requirements. In that respect, we should not take the matter of experimenting in a new way in advance as a troll. And in the same way as in many other sectors, the operators, whether they are the companies or other operators, are already working together, and it is perfectly visible to the customer in the situation without being able to see that there is a company or a group of companies doing it. But it is very strongly related to what the subscriber can order, and now the challenge must be done and accepted, because there is also a lot of opportunities here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u38	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u39	Mr President! In this case, at least according to the title, it is about housing support and students, and so I cannot help not to raise this issue, which has been discussed quite a lot lately, at least in the columns of Helsingin Sanomat and certainly also in the social media. It is a question of the extent to which the income of a spouse must be able to influence whether it receives housing allowance, for example, for a less-paid or incomeless spouse, as is the case here, or income support, which has also been on the table in the debate. It may be that this is a generation gap, but I do not accept or understand the idea that when you live as a family, for example, in a common-law relationship, the income and resources of a better-earning spouse would only be for his own benefit, so that he could go on vacation on the islands of the South Sea or go alone in restaurants and buy new expensive clothes and so on, and then the support of his incomeless or very low-income spouse would not in any way be his or her responsibility and should not participate in it; it is then the taxpayer's responsibility to provide for that spouse. This is what it means if the income of the spouse is not taken into account at all, as has been requested in the public debate. I am so old-fashioned that I think that people have responsibilities not only towards themselves but also towards their fellowmen, and this is the thinking that'my money, my income must not affect my spouse's benefits but that taxpayers should take care of him' is completely foreign to me, and I hope that it will not be as common as it seems to be in younger generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u40	Madam President! After all, this proposal concerns the status of Åland and the related legislative changes relating to changes in housing allowance, but, like Mrs Zyskowicz, as a reference to this title, it reminded me once again of one of the bad decisions taken by the government in this spending limits debate. That was what has been said very often in this Chamber, that once again there was a purse for the low-income, and this time it was decided to continue this policy of cutting and then extend it to such low-income tenants, that is to say, cut the housing allowance. In my opinion, this decision has been wrong for the government, and I hope that at this stage the government will think about it, because as soon as this decision came out, I was looking at some expert assessments, including from the city of Helsinki and elsewhere, where it was said that this is likely not to lower rents but, for example, to differentiate residential areas, which is, of course, a pretty serious development, and this should not be the case. It is good that at the time the government gave up its intention to cut the housing allowance for pensioners, which the opposition, by its own actions, certainly put on the table significantly, and I believe it had a major impact. But since then, this housing allowance for a pensioner also includes such a hidden cut, and we have wanted to reject such cuts in our own option. Once again, in this context, when we are talking about housing aid, I would like to reiterate that, in this situation, rents cannot be reduced by cutting the housing allowance for poor people, people on low incomes, hard-working workers, those Siwa cashiers, which we have discussed recently in this Chamber, among other things, with representatives here. The solution to these issues can be found in the fact that we have enough affordable housing available, and that is how the housing market works.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u41	Madam President! It is quite right that this issue of housing allowance for Ålanders should be put in order — it does not in itself have anything negative, it has to be dealt with, and it has onion — but this housing allowance job in Finland has actually gotten out of hand and the direction is extremely worrying. Originally, housing allowance was created in this country to help people with low incomes, to be able to live in reasonably good-quality housing with reasonable rent. This was the intention in the first place. Why is it gone now? Swedish millionaires brawl in Helsinki, own thousands of homes, and the government will then have to pay the shocking rents. At its worst, when the new housing company is built, this housing company will have someone who will afford 30 apartments for himself, roll the rent to the top, and then the state will be called upon to help you pay the housing allowance now. In fact, that money does not go to those people; it goes to the rich, including Swedish investors. Is this the purpose of the housing allowance? I don't think so. So the main focus of my speech is that when we start developing the housing support job from now on, our cheapest way of developing housing and housing support and saving costs is to keep the whole country occupied. At this rate, if everything is concentrated here, we will soon have a situation in our hands — now that amount is EUR 2.3 billion — that we will have to double that amount. Every reasonable person knows that we cannot afford to push billions into these rich investors. Or someone VVO who changed his name to Kojamo Oyj will be paid close to EUR 100 million in housing support through various means through the housing they have built: tenants will pay and receive housing allowance, and then this Kojamo Corporation will not pay tax to the State, partly because of its tax exemption. This cannot be government finances, never. There's got to be a rat in here, too. We discuss investment aid for some small company, that it is unreasonable — from there comes work, in low-cost places, even now, for example, Rovaniemi — but then millions are blamed on things like this that go just like Kankkula well for the Finnish state finances. We need to make sense of this in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u42	Mr President! Now that housing aid is being discussed, I would like to make it clear that I agree with Mrs Viitane that only a better balance in the housing market can be achieved, i.e. more affordable rental housing in the capital region, for example, ultimately solves these problems with high housing costs, high rents. But the decisions made by the government in the mid-term review, on the one hand, relating to this index adjustment and, on the other hand, relating to the EUR 30 million housing allowance cut, of course, Mr Viitanen, do not count the rents, and no one has claimed that, [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u43	Madam President! This law really applies to students in mainland Finland who go to Åland to study, and then they are treated equally with the students in Åland. On the other hand, when you come from Åland to study here in the mainland, the housing allowance for your students is also equal. In that respect, this legislation is good. Mr President! I cannot fail to take a stand on this housing allowance system as such, since the government is currently preparing a reform of the housing allowance legislation, which, according to the messages at least, is changing in such a way as to target it more per square metre. In other words, it will differ, depending on where they live. It is quite clear in the metropolitan area that there are more people living here in smaller dwellings, but when we go outside the capital region, for example, to South Karelia, where housing costs are higher than average, there are also larger dwellings and therefore, even though housing costs are higher, in practice this housing allowance does not treat them equally compared to those living in these dwellings when there are more small dwellings available. As a result, when this housing allowance does not treat residents equally and the government is, in parallel, still reforming the income support legislation, which will no longer take into account housing costs in the future, this will lead to greater and deeper discrimination between citizens. This whole will be a real shame if the government plans to complete these plans during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u44	Mr President! The fact that these government plans now have a problem with increasing inequality among people and with the fact that housing areas are, among other things, being unequaled was well demonstrated in that previous speech. That same system works here, of course, that when this is tied to square rents, it will then drive certain people to certain areas where there is a lower cost of living. Consequently, serious concerns have already been raised about the separation of residential areas. As a defender of the suburbs, I would like to stress that this kind of development is by no means desirable. President! That is the problem here when reference is made to the fact that this is very much curbing the rise in rents, as it were, and that is the problem. A while ago, for example, Kela’s survey showed that despite the fact that the housing allowance, for example, has been on ice and has not been increased for a long time, rents rose. So, in a way, this supposed effect of housing allowance in relation to rent is not at all what is generally always generalized. That is why I am also extremely concerned about the argument which is being used here on the pretext that we can then do one more cut in social security, the livelihood of small people, because that is what it is all about, where the content of the money bag is being reduced and then less left in the wallet and hand when the subsidies are being cut. This seems to me to be the wrong direction. There has been a lot of discussion here, and I think that the government would have a place to reconsider here too. Once again, I call upon this to happen also during this operation, as was the case at the time when the deduction of the housing allowance for pensioners was cancelled. Here, too, would be a place to cancel. We know these cost implications, and the government, in its own estimates, writes that in a similar way when 30 million are saved, income support expenditure will then increase whether it was 19 million. But it was this measure, which is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u45	Mr President! I myself took the debate to the sidelines, and that is why I thought that my last speech would have been the last one, but it was now the second last one, which is the last one. This intervention was forced to ask Mr Viitanen, who seemed to deny it — and also referred to some of the studies — to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u48	Mr President! I also asked for the floor to be taken with pleasure that, when Mr Zyskowicz said just now that that speech was his last, I thought that this was a good fit for this. But, Mr Zyskowicz, do you really think that in this economic situation, you have made decisions within the government which are actually cuts in social security?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u51	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u52	Mr President! This government's proposal for a natural gas market law is an extremely important energy policy, and this is something that needs to be carefully examined now in committee. The annual consumption of natural gas is likely to be 26 terawatt hours, and the share of natural gas in our total energy consumption is likely to be about 6%. Of course, the use of natural gas for combined heat and power production is important, but the number of households using natural gas is quite limited. We all know that all this natural gas comes from Russia through a single pipeline network, but then, if you look at the net sales of natural gas in Finland in 2015, it was over EUR 800 million, so we are talking about an important issue. The Finnish natural gas market is opening up to competition in 2020, and this also involves the intention of connecting the natural gas network between Finland and Estonia, which has been a fairly lively debate. In this context, the idea is to increase competition for renewable energy supplied to the natural gas network on the one hand and for this liquefied natural gas on the other. We already have a connection from Porvoo to the network, A facility of this kind has also been built in Pori, which, above all, will certainly serve maritime transport, and there is going to be one in Tornio. In other words, the importance of liquefied natural gas will be important in this respect. In Gasum, the national interest of the State is to ensure the transmission and operation of gas under all circumstances. Gasum is important to maintain state control in the future, as is the company that has now been established for the construction of this pipeline of the natural gas project between Finland and Estonia. But I suppose that message is that the construction of a natural gas pipeline between Finland and Estonia is not yet a sufficient solution for us to connect to the European natural gas network. Of course, it requires that there should also be some reform and construction between Poland and the Baltic States. These changes in this proposal, which relate to electricity market and natural gas market laws and which limit the increase in electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution charges during the 12-month period to a maximum of 15 %, are highly welcome. These have to do with the Gasum debate, which was very lively. I would like us in the committee to consider carefully, in consultation with the experts, first of all that this opening up of competition must be carefully prepared. It would be worth considering whether opening up the natural gas market would be more sensible only after the creation of a common European natural gas network between Poland and Lithuania, which will lead to a much larger market and a greater supply, and whether, on the other hand, there is a risk that the price of natural gas will not actually go down but will increase. With this I would just like to say that these issues now need to be dealt with carefully and consulted by experts in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u53	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Ihalainen that this is a much bigger energy policy issue than it is easy to think at first sight. The first is, in fact, that this is also a certain line of action on the actual separation of infrastructure from production. Now, in a certain way, the electricity market has been doing the same thing for a few years, and the prospect is that we are now starting to do the same in the natural gas market. Of course, it is a good question whether we will start to do the same in a moment, even if in the district heating market, that the infrastructure will then be clearly separated from production and that production will be opened up to competition. Just as Mr Ihalainen said, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we need to deal very carefully with this issue. Now that we are opening this up to competition, which also includes the Baltic States, how can we somehow ensure that the objective is to create a truly European market? This relates to the question of how to ensure that the pipeline continues through the Baltic States and Poland then into the European market, because it would genuinely open up this competition and indeed create different productions. Of course — although there has already been an initial discussion with the ministers — there is already a certain degree of new competition in terms of the availability of LNG, liquid gas, which brings new activity to the market and, on the other hand, the development of its own biogas production creates new production. The second aspect is then the increase in domestic production. This natural gas network and its unbundling is a matter of real interest, because for many years now we have been very dependent on production from the Russian side, which has worked well and reliably. But this differentiation opens up a truly huge market for Finland, because then it makes sense for the system operator to take different gas production into the network, if it is to receive competitive offers. And this offers opportunities for, for example, biogas production and, perhaps, decentralised production through it, and considerable potential for life, at least in areas close to the natural gas network. I certainly hope that this would be a reform that would give opportunities to Finnish production as well. According to some estimates, we would be able to get up to 30% of domestic gas, biogas, into the grid rather quickly. If this gives us such an opportunity, then I think it makes sense to move forward with this reform, while ensuring that it becomes a genuine European gas market in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u54	Mr President! The reform of the legislation relating to the natural gas market is necessary and most welcome. The use of natural gas in Finland was much greater than it is now in the readings spoken by the representative of Ihalainen, but it has proved to be very important both in industry and in the production of electricity and heat, and it is still very important for the economy of our country to take advantage of and increase it. One side is the construction of this second pipeline from the Baltics, that we are strongly and very much connected to the European natural gas network, and the other side is what Mr Jaskari also stressed in his speech that it opens up great opportunities for domestic decentralised operations for gas supply and gas production to join the gas network. In accordance with current legislation, this has been built for the use of Gasum and they are not obliged to take other gases into that network. This is a clear problem in itself, and the lack of competition there has also disrupted the gas market. If you think about transport, we have, among other things, what Mr Ihalainen said, the arrival of nes-made gas in Pori reopened the debate, for example, as to whether the Pori-Haapamäki line could be reopened using liquefied gas, because it would give it new opportunities. With regard to transport, we now have a decision by the Government on electricity, the installation of electrical plugs in large quantities distributed throughout the country. In my opinion, it also allows for the use of gas in the transport of vehicles, so that its distribution points should increase at the same rate in Finland, because I believe that the use of carbon-neutral gas will increase. People want to use it, and it would be more likely to be used in vehicles than in electricity. This reform of the market law is most welcome. After all, we have very dazzling targets where more gas can be produced and, as Mr Jaskari said, if 30% can be achieved, that is a huge achievement, and Finland has every chance of doing so. This would increase self-sufficiency and would increase the processing of bioenergy in a wide range of areas. A welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u55	Madam President! However, if we do not applaud it now, we must be satisfied to believe that the government has done a good job in preparing this reform, because, while the aim is to create the conditions for LNG and biogas and the objective is to give up coal, these are one-size-fits-all and good objectives. Creating conditions for accession to the Central European natural gas network after the completion of Baltic. How likely it is that we have networks so ready that we could start to excite the fact that, nationally, biogas production could also be connected to this network means that it would be a long way off for car journeys. If we involve the production of biogas produced in a sparsely populated area, it is certainly not of a common scale with the production of space. I believe that this is a very important reform, and what is best is the fact that the Government's proposal is about charging transmission networks, about increasing prices, about increasing prices. During the last period, decisions were taken which did not limit in any way the consumer's liability for certain price increases. Now we've got this 12-month section. Yes, as a left-wing Member of Parliament, I should like to thank this government for its approach, which is precisely such that the consumer can now be a little predictable in just 12 months — of course, whatever it is 12 months ago. We are now bringing predictability and such a correct rhythm to the fact that not only will the system operator make price increases, but this will also give Finnish consumers the backbone that we are not faced with the possibility of raising the prices of transmission networks by more than 15 per cent over taxes and electricity prices. I do say hello to this in a very good way. We have talked, we have brought up Satakunta and Pori, and we have talked about it, just as Mr Ihalainen did, how important it is. The representative Juhantalo also agreed with it in terms of transport, but we need to see that in Satakunta it is not limited to traffic alone. Liquefied natural gas comes to us strongly to the Harjavalta big industrial park from one of the fuels used to run our energy production. In other words, this Pori unit in Mäntyluoto makes it possible for the Pori-Harjahallan heavy metal plants to come into the natural gas circuit. This reform, which enables and makes it even more profitable for us to try to get away from coal, to give up coal, must indeed be welcomed with joy. The advance in all these matters is not a bad thing. Someone is a little critical of why we are always taking advantage of certain projects in Europe. At this point I must say that it is a good thing that the government's proposal is now going down a little more of its advantage than it was going to be. This is where we're at. In all seriousness, I can now agree with Mr Juhani's view that opening up transversal traffic on the Pori-Haapamäki track would be very welcome. This would make it possible for our mining industry to travel through the transport infrastructure and the deep ports of Pori — a very good perspective. We need transversal traffic in this country. We need good industrial export capacity and it involves this Pori-Haapamäki track. Although it may now sound a little like local politics and bridge-drum policy, it is of great economic importance. I watched the morning TV when a couple of wise economics were talking, but they forgot about Satakunta. None of the speeches showed that we are 1.7 times the size of a region with the gross domestic product of the export industry compared to the rest of the country. We have a powerful metallurgical industry, and the extractive industry in Finland imports everything but gold for processing for us in Satakunta. We have a strong chemical industry, we have a forest cluster, and then we need a good infra. Could you say here, quoting the head of the province, that Finland needs the Satakunta, and that is why one of the elements is this transversal transport project, which this LNG would be very well suited to. And that means not only Pori-Haapamäki, but also opening up rail traffic to Kuopio, so that we have the materials to go to the ports where the depth is. Madam President! I salute this — I had to check that Vice-President Pekkarinen was not
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u56	Madam President! This law on the natural gas market is extremely important and it is good that these networks can be liberalised into free competition. That is the spirit of today, but it will also serve in the future to bring biogas to the market, for example, and to involve domestic production. All the gas that has come to Finland so far is Russian natural gas, and it has worked well and plays a significant role as a different source of energy for Finnish industry. Of course, a few detached houses use natural gas as a heating raw material, which in itself is a good thing that there is a variety of heating materials available. But there is also, in my opinion, the point of view of this bill that, when biogas is hopefully started to be produced in this country at last – there are a few pioneers in Finland who have earned some credit in this area and have spoken for biogas – and now we are getting out of words into action, that is to say, the network is being set free, just as we have already done on the electricity side, and this network is being made available to everyone. That is a very good thing. To transport: Mrs Myllykoski, in her excellent speech, has just mentioned the issue of cross-border traffic and how to make it work in this country. With that bow, I thank you and salute you. That's an excellent thing. And now that we have started to talk about the removal of diesel locomotives in this country — many speeches that need to be made electronically, all the networks need to be electrified — I would have some reservations about it because if there is little traffic on the track and then electrification is enormously expensive, then if the locomotive has domestic biogas in the fuel tank, for example, it is quite the same to drive the diesel locomotive, because it is economically very profitable. Madam President! Finally, on the issue of Finnish energy supply, I would like to highlight the use of domestic peat. I just can't understand what the miracle is wrong with this country and with us people when we are not allowed to use the domestic raw material stock freely and prevent it from being used by all the means of the world, even though there is no basis for it. Biogas and related matters are so important that I would like to... — I will continue to speak from the toilet for a while, so that I can say so. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! Indeed, I am deeply saddened by the fact that domestic raw material, peat, in this country has actually been hated. What on earth really happened to this country? Since this government proposal, which is now under discussion, is precisely opening up the gas market, why could we not openly consider the matter of making better use of peat? Now, as we know, the Vapo share company is going through a major development cycle in which they are trying to produce peat for a market other than fuel, and they themselves have launched and made it a major announcement to the public, which is their new product direction. Let them tell us for themselves, they have important business ideas going up in it, and if they come true, as it seems, it will open up huge export opportunities for Finland. I mean, we're shooting ourselves in the leg all the time. Natural gas matters are important in this country. Russian natural gas has been a guaranteed source of energy for us Finns all along, reliable and secure, and now that the networks are opened up, it will probably bring added value by getting biogas in on this as well. Indeed, we cannot ignore the use of peat in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u59	Madam President! It's nice to have some legislative proposals that enjoy a great deal of popularity from both sides of the hall. Hopefully, with the changes to this gas market law, there will also be new opportunities for success for domestic biogas. However, I thought in my own speech that I would address this amendment to the Electricity Market Act, which is part of this amendment to the Natural Gas Market Act. This famous Caruna law started from the fact that there were massive increases in electricity transmission prices in many areas and in sparsely populated areas, the electricity transmission prices are much higher than the electricity price itself. It is very important that the first steps have now been taken to control these incomprehensible increases by means of legislation. The fact that this annual ceiling was brought here is, of course, very important, bearing in mind that it must by no means be the maximum ceiling. I believe that this is only one way. It is also necessary to clarify in the future what further changes could be made. Of course, there is also the fact that the pressures brought about by land-caving, which are very high in sparsely populated areas — and there is no need everywhere to do land-cabulation in storm-sensitive areas — can be alleviated and extended. I believe that it would be worthwhile to find out, as Mr Tiilikainen, who presented this law, has also said, that in the future we will be able to think about what other things could be done to prevent the spread of electricity transmission prices. There are different areas in Sweden where tax levels differ, and there is also some kind of profit ceiling for a monopoly company, which is not unprecedented either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u60	Madam President! I am speaking mainly on the amendment of the electricity market law, which is now included in this, even though it is a gas market. As far as these gas markets are concerned, it is good that the actual gas sales and transmission activities are differentiated. I personally welcome the government's proposal in the sense that there is a mention that the state will retain a majority in this gas transport activity. It's a big principle. And those who follow the electricity market closely have noticed where it will lead if this activity is not controlled in any way. When these major storms occurred, immediately thereafter, there was a rapid political response — I do not know whether a rapid reaction will always be the wisest way — and the preparation of an electricity market law which was reasonably strict as to how this security of electricity supply will be sanctioned. It is right, in itself, that it should be sanctioned because it encourages or even, to some extent, forces electricity companies to keep the grids in a condition where electricity transmission is undisturbed, it is of paramount importance to the consumer, but the fact that we may have imposed a little too strict a law on the electricity market led to the fact that, even at the moment, parts of the network that are in good condition, land-caving, are being exported within the country. And it does not make sense economic activity, because (a) it leads to too fast a pace of investment and (b) it leads to too rapid an increase in transfer prices. And when the Energy Market Agency, apparently inspired by a change in the electricity market law and therefore changed the reasonable return on the current value of the network quite drastically, 100 percent up to 5.92 percent, even defined the risk as moderate — there is a certain beta factor for it — then these famous increases in Caruna and also other increases that other companies did. All such cost-structure increases are, of course, poison to industry and small and medium-sized enterprises, and even consumers were not very enthusiastic if I read the magazines in due course. This line of the Energy Agency was a bit strange in that it was used as a justification for investing at a high pace. This was partly true because this high investment rate concerned those companies that have networks in forested areas and which actually have to invest because there must be some kind of cash flow. They had to increase transmission fees, but this Energy Agency policy was likely to benefit most from those urban companies that did not have to invest but which, by a single decision of the government, were able to increase profits by 100 %. This should not be the case in such a monopoly business. In my opinion, there has been some sort of legal error, and then the Energy Agency has gone too orthodoxly to follow this pressure from investment pressure to increase transfer prices. In my opinion, the Energy Agency should reduce this 5.92 % because the current negative interest rate level is difficult to justify such a high return on the current value of the network, but it requires a change in the electricity market law. Representative My corner, in my opinion, was quite right to say here that this natural gas law includes an amendment to the electricity market law. In other words, it will be easier for companies whose networks are in forest-intensive areas: the application will be extended to the time when they will be able to put these networks in order. This is very important because it will lead to a slight relaxation of the pace of investment, which will even allow them to reduce the electricity network transmission charges which will then be imposed on consumers and industry. In other words, this opening and amendment of the electricity market law in this respect is the key to ensuring that transmission prices do not need to be increased — on the contrary, they can be calculated. This is a very important question. I think it is good that this is being brought to Parliament as a government proposal. I hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will deal with this change in the electricity market law in this spirit, giving the few companies the right to take up this investment obligation even with an extended period of time up to 2036. In my opinion, there will be no danger to anyone, but we will, in a way, prevent transfer prices from being unduly differentiated in the various regions of the country. So I really hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will first think carefully and make the necessary changes to the Electricity Market Act and then Parliament will accept it, because it is a sensible path for consumers, SMEs and the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u61	Mr President! I warmly support what Mr Kulmun and Mr Estilä have to say, even in relation to this last part of the speech in Mr Estilä. It is necessary, because of the diversity of electricity plants and the diversity of management sections, to implement it at this stage. I went on to talk about this need for differentiation, also in this whole legislation. After all, we have seen the problems and disadvantages that arise when the market is in the hands of activity and production. They will not then be in a market economy balance but will result in abnormal increases. I wanted to refer to the speech by Mrs Myllykoski. It is quite true that: A hundred percent are advanced in the use of LPG and would be very much associated with this use of liquefied gas alongside industry. I personally have a strong opinion on the use of biogas, because we have had biogas used by the local electricity plant at Honkajoki Station for many years and electricity production has been excellent. Biogas comes from the most amazing substances. You couldn’t believe it until you actually found out that electricity can be produced with pretty bad substances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u62	Madam President! We must agree with what has been said, and we must agree with what Mr Kulmun has said, which Mr Eestilä has supported, that there should be an extension. I believe that there could be an extension in cases where the number of hours of the law does not have to be broken in these forested areas. As technologies evolve, it should be possible to consider that we are not digging land cables into areas that may be depopulating. It is absolutely pointless to force the construction of land cables required by law where housing and business activities are diminishing. We have different solutions to deal with these things, as we did back in the day, when this law was enacted, I would have hoped that we could have had even this kind of aggregate network that can secure the fact that within 32 hours of every residential house, every farm can get electricity, so that there will not be this kind of loss of 6 billion, which economic loss came during this major power outage. It is totally intolerable for private households and businesses that we may have power outages so long that we have problems so big. But it is very important to see that everything develops, replace forms, and can we not at times think of keeping the nets farther away from the trees and then paying for the harvesting of trees to the extent that the hosts keep the lines clean?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u63	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski raised an important issue, which means this rolling forest management. There have been certain difficulties in catching all forest owners and agreeing on the procedures when this important flow of electricity will then be secured by the management of the sidings. Even legislation, its own legislation, might be appropriate. Madam President! I would like to raise one point that I would even like to put into the law, namely that electricity grid companies must declare increases in tax-free transfer prices. This is very important because many electricity companies would be happy to include the electricity tax associated with the transfer price, thus reducing this percentage of the transfer price. It should be the law that the consumer should be informed of the increases in the electricity transmission price without any electricity tax, in which case the figures are actually higher than the electricity tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u64	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u65	Madam President! This international environmental agreement in Montreal is perhaps one of the most successful international agreements in the history of environmental policy: it reaches the age of 30 this year, and almost 200 countries in the world have committed themselves to it. Progress has now been made on the use of HFCs, which are highly toxic and harmful to greenhouse gas emissions, once again. It is estimated that this limitation alone will reach as much as 0.5°C of the Paris climate agreement objectives, so this change is quite important in that respect. It's an excellent step forward. It must also be noted that there have been some different restrictions on the way forward for industrialised countries and developing countries. There is already a great deal of technology in the industrialized countries in this area, and we have the cleanest industry in the world. The fact that we have to drive our industry away from here, not on a global scale, at all, because of very strict climate objectives would improve the climate situation or even the situation of industry here. I therefore very much welcome the fact that such progress has been made. This will also contribute to the objectives of the Paris climate agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u66	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u67	Mr President! The Parliament now has at its disposal a report from the Banking Council on 16 May. As usual, the report focuses on the events of the reporting year, and the content includes separate parts of the activities and administration of the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority, as in previous years. The Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority’s assessments of the Bank of Finland’s activities are found in their own separate sub-chapter. The third part of the report contains six articles focusing on topical specific themes. These specific themes deal with the unconventional activities of the ECB’s monetary policy, the impact of the ECB’s extended asset purchase programme on Finland, digitalisation in the financial markets, household indebtedness and risk weights for mortgages, branches of banks and the preparation of the Bank of Finland’s financial statements and its criteria. The last part of the report also briefly describes some of the events following the reporting year. Mr President! My presentation is divided into two parts. Let me start with a few important ECB monetary policy issues and the Bank of Finland, which took place during the reporting year, and then briefly on the Financial Supervisory Authority. As regards the ECB’s monetary policy, key findings are as follows: Firstly, the primary objective of the ECB is to maintain price stability. According to its definition by the Council, this objective means that the annual increase in consumer prices should be less than 2 % but close to it in the medium term. The ECB can also work to support good employment and sustainable economic growth, as long as these measures do not jeopardise the objective of price stability. During the reporting year, the ECB and the Bank of Finland closely monitored the achievement of the objective of price stability and the economic development of the euro area. The monetary policy environment was quite eventful and partly challenging. On the other hand, the UK EU divorce decision in June of the reporting year did not have as much impact on the short-term economic outlook as expected or perhaps feared. Monetary policy itself was stimulating throughout the reporting year. I will not go into monetary policy in detail here, but for example, I will mention the decisions taken by the Governing Council at the March monetary policy meeting. At that time, the ECB first decided to calculate its key monetary policy interest rates. In addition, it decided to increase the monthly purchases of the extended asset purchase programme and to extend the coverage of the purchase programme. The coverage was broadened by the adoption of euro-denominated investment category bonds issued by euro area companies. The ECB's main monetary policy activities are described in more detail in both the Bank of Finland's Annual Report and the specific theme of this Report. Mr President! As regards the Bank of Finland, there are two issues: First, during the autumn of the reporting year, the Board of Directors elected two new members of the Board of Directors due to the end of the term of the Board members Pentti Hakkarainen and Seppo Honkapohja. The Board of Governors unanimously appointed Marja Nykänen, candidate for law and Dr Olli Rehn's Board of Directors of Philosophy. Both of them now began their term of office at the beginning of February 17 and run for five years. For the interim period of this year, we will have four board members until Seppo Honkapopo is retired, and the Board of Directors has already decided in advance that the entire board of directors will return to the size class of three board members. Secondly, I would like to highlight the risk profile and balance sheet of the Bank of Finland. After all, the Board of Governors regularly monitors their development, and this was also the case during the reporting year. On the one hand, the performance of the central banking functions and the investment of own financial assets on the other hand generate income for the bank, but on the other hand it also faces different risks. The Bank has a financial asset of approximately EUR 17,4 billion. When investing in this financial asset, the Bank of Finland is exposed to both credit and liquidity risks and market risks. Market risks include exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. The combined annual risks of financial assets and monetary policy at the end of 16 were EUR 2 billion excluding gold risk. The calculated risk figure remained almost unchanged from the previous year. The above risk assessment, EUR 2 billion, includes the risks of the Bank of Finland’s financial assets and Eurosystem monetary policy programmes. This risk assessment includes operations at the Bank of Finland’s own risk and the contribution of the Bank of Finland’s capital key to the Eurosystem’s risks. The risk assessment provided by the established model is based on historical statistical data and information, so it cannot fully contain new, unprecedented events. The assessment is based on the assumption that the Eurosystem is acting in its current form and this risk assessment is complemented by a variety of scenario analyses. In any event, at the end of the year 16, the Bank of Finland’s total equity amounted to EUR 9.4 billion and the Bank’s Board of Governors’ view was that the bank’s solvency was sufficient at the end of the reporting year to cover the risks arising from the performance of the Bank’s tasks. As far as the balance sheet of the bank is concerned, its size may vary considerably over the year. At the turn of the year, the balance sheet was temporarily reduced to around EUR 80 billion, but, by way of example, at the end of April of this year, just now, the balance sheet total was EUR 135 billion. The increase in the balance sheet is largely due to the monetary policy pursued. Purchasing programmes and long-term refinancing operations have greatly increased liquidity, and this additional liquidity is unevenly distributed between the national central banks. The Bank of Finland has received significantly more than average additional liquidity, i.e. monetary policy deposits. At the end of April, these deposits amounted to as much as EUR 101 billion in the balance sheet of the Bank of Finland. Mr President! Financial supervision operates administratively in connection with the Bank of Finland but is independent of this in decision-making. The Board of Governors is responsible for overseeing the overall relevance and efficiency of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority, and the Board of Governors is responsible for appointing the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Director, acting on a proposal from the Board of Directors. As far as the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority are concerned, I would like to raise four points. First of all, although it has happened since the reporting year, in spring 17, the Board of Directors of the Bank of Finland has been appointed by the Board of Governors of the Bank of Finland by Olli Rehn as Chairman of the Board of Financial Supervisory Board since the beginning of February of this year. The Vice-President of the Board of Financial Supervision is Mr Martti Hetemäki, Secretary of State. Second, the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority has submitted to the Board of Directors a report on the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority for the reporting year 16 and published the Financial Supervisory Authority's activity report. On the basis of these reports, discussions at the meetings of the Board of Directors and other information received, the Board of Directors estimates that the objective of the Financial Supervisory Authority’s activities has been achieved. From the perspective of the overall effectiveness of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Board of Directors estimates that the Financial Supervisory Authority has managed the constantly changing field of supervision in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Thirdly, the branching of banking activities and changes in the location of banking groups are new phenomena – this is what Nordea is currently discussing – which can quickly change the size and risk concentration of the financial sector in a given country. Similarly, such structural changes in financial markets can create pressure to adjust the functioning of the Financial Supervisory Authority. In order to meet these challenges, complex cooperation between the authorities is needed, and the Banking Council considers it important that each financial sector operator, regardless of the form of company or the chosen operating model, participates in a fair manner to cover the supervisory costs necessary to control its operations. And as the fourth issue in relation to the Financial Supervisory Authority, it is necessary to highlight the indebtedness of households and the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority in relation to mortgages. The financial supervision has highlighted the high level of household indebtedness as one of the key risks. In November last year, the European System Committee also issued a warning to Finland about medium-term risks in the housing and mortgage markets due to the high level of household indebtedness, and the issue has been regularly discussed by the Banking Council. As an immediate measure, the Financial Supervisory Authority will prepare an increase in the risk pressure on the solvency calculation of mortgages from 1.1.18 onwards, and in addition, the Financial Supervisory Authority will assess the need to extend the macroprudential tools affecting the mortgage loan in cooperation with other authorities. Mr President! Finally, the balance sheet total of the Bank of Finland at the end of 16 is just under EUR 80 billion and the result for the financial year was EUR 130.6 million. The annual accounts for the reporting year are presented in detail in the annex to the report to Parliament. The Bank of Finland Board of Governors decided that EUR 39.6 million of the Bank of Finland’s profit for the reporting year will be used to raise the reserve fund on the basis of the Bank of Finland Act and the rest, or EUR 91 million, will be transferred to the needs of the State.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u68	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Vanhanen, for a good introduction. All in all, this report from the banking council is a good piece of paper, and there is a lot of interesting information here and certainly some interesting reading for each of us. The issues of monetary policy in general in Europe and economic policy in general both in Finland and in the world are quite topical and interesting overall. We have seen some upheavals, and indeed in this year's report we have wondered many times about some of these Brexit issues. President! It is precisely because, on the whole, this future of the euro area is very timely, and the last time I saw it in the headlines yesterday, that I was also thinking of taking the floor in this context that, in recent times, the new Minister for European Affairs of the Government has taken or really not taken a position on his views on the future of the euro area, the situation seems very strange and confused from the point of view of the opposition. After all, there has been more than one debate here in the Chamber this spring about the need for Parliament to have a broad forum, an open forum in the Chamber to discuss the future of the euro area in general and the future of Europe as a whole and the various centres, the way in which they are going and the pace, and for example, this news coverage yesterday did not reduce that need at all. In fact, the new Minister for European Affairs did not finally agree to define what he thought personally and generally about whether Finland should belong to the European Union or to the euro at all. After all, he flashed that before long, or at some point in any case, we need a vote on Finland's membership of the EU, and that he himself does not say here and now how he feels about whether or not he likes it. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u69	Madam President! That line is clearly written in the government programme; there are no two words about it. So there's no need to speculate. What a private individual sometimes thinks should not affect this paper, which is currently being discussed, i.e. the report of the Banking Council for 2016. What is significant, however, is that there is a huge debt on the part of the various branches of Europe's own bonds: the countries, the municipalities, the companies, the private people. This is the huge problem of our European money market. The recent memory is a few years ago when Germany’s largest bank, Deutsche Bank, was in difficulty and was then held up by the German Federal Government by giving it additional money to avoid collapse. It would have been a huge disaster on the European scale if Europe's largest bank had fallen. The only question arises is what is the guarantee of European financial supervision and, in general, of these supervisory bodies there when they control the solvency of these banks... According to my memory, about 10 of these stress tests have been carried out, there may already be more, and the result has always been that there are no problems, but despite this, it has been getting worse and worse all the time. Indeed, the European Central Bank has now left the market for these bonds, buying them from private individuals, businesses, banks, governments and all those bonds out of the market — that is, the paper pulp that has virtually no value. In other words, the European Central Bank is now involved in what the Finns once laughed about printing notes, as in the past few countries. At the time, it felt strange. Well, now we're doing it ourselves, we're involved. That you shouldn't go next door and laugh if you're in it later. However, on this issue I hope that in Finland, economic policy will now be taken quite seriously and that this state economy will be restored, because these purchases of bonds, which the ECB is currently doing, will, however, keep interest rates at a reasonable level. And if we get our own debt-based economy — which also applies to households in this country — strengthened, it would be a great wealth for Finland. By the way, when the interest goes up one day, then the trouble begins.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u70	Mr President! Thank you very much for a good introduction. But what do I have to say about this economic situation at all, so it now seems that at the end of 2016, households' indebtedness was 126.5 per cent, i.e. an increase of nearly 2 percentage points. At the same time, the saving rate fell to zero, and this has only happened five times in the last 40 years, i.e. in the 1980s, the 21st century and the 70s three times. I was wondering what this is about. Will this be affected now by the possible effects of Brexit and Brexit, as we are currently talking about this in the Union? For example, if we look at pensions for Union officials, Britain's obligations would be around EUR 7 billion, which I understand is close to 10% of the Bank of Finland's balance sheet, but it is quite a lot there. And if it happens now that Britain refuses these obligations, what does it have to do with it until the 2020s and perhaps even a little further, if Britain refuses to pay, then how will it affect us and then how will it affect our very households? For example, has the Bank of Finland prepared itself in such a way that something should also be taken up for Finland if Britain fails to fulfil its obligations? So these situations are all open at the moment, for, for example, this whole pension package, which is coming from there, is, I think, between 60 billion and 70 billion, and Britain's share of it is indeed 7 billion, that is quite a lot. These are things that are a little worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u71	Mr President! They do, and this last point was perhaps another reason why this whole debate on the European Union and its future should take place more and more widely in this House. We have covered it somewhat in the Committee on Budgets, and I know that the great committee is dealing with it, but it would also be good to go through it in this forum and have this debate, above all to know, President, what is the Finnish Government's line on these matters. Surely, in this case of British obligation, for example, Parliament should be strict and give the government the message, as it were, that we must demand that the UK fulfil its obligations. But, President-in-Office, I shall now return to this previous debate. As far as Mr Hoskonen is concerned, it cannot be that we have a minister who is a European minister, and this is what our European Minister is saying on the world stage, that perhaps Finland should not be a member of the European Union in the future and should start to have this kind of debate at some point. Well, it's a strange and unclear situation, to say the least. I would say that, for this very reason, I do not think it is too much to expect the Finnish Government to clarify its line and then also come before Parliament with this line, and we can have that debate in this context and give these overall greetings. Mr Hoskonen also referred in his own speech to economic policy that it should be taken seriously and that it should be reformed by the state, referring to these possible increases in interest rates in the future. It is the right thing to do, and that is precisely why we have been concerned that, according to both the Bank of Finland and many other forecasts, even though there are these small signs of recovery in the global economy — and now, unlike in the past, there is a wind in the wind — the government is, in its own report, falling short of both its employment objectives and its debt targets. These are extremely worrying issues and I think that we should also have a debate here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u72	Mr President! In this regard, it is worth noting that the EUR 80 billion of the European Central Bank's debt purchase programme every month is a huge amount of money and that the European Central Bank does not have that money, but it is actually being printed on the banknote machine to try to create a situation on the market in which inflation starts. Fortunately, it has moved on a little bit: it will be of little use, as long as it is kept under control so that it does not get out of hand like the burning of an old boy, it will not be good either. But it is important to note now that Finland, as a state and as a Member State of the European Union and as a member of the euro area, has an obligation to keep the production economy in order and to make progress in that country. I have been concerned recently about the debate that has finally and finally gone off to export. Today’s news on the front page of Evening magazine — you must have read today’s newspapers — is very encouraging news about how new jobs have been created. Now we have to be reasonable and patient in this country not to go out with excessive demands, for example, on the coming negotiations between the social partners, to keep in mind that this escalating growth and the possibility of destroying it right from the outset, because in the long run there is the only right way to get the economy in order, more work, less unemployment, because unemployment, all of it, costs almost EUR 7 billion and we simply cannot afford such unemployment in this country, not from the point of view of the state economy or, above all, of people, from the point of view of human life. Every person who can get a nail must get to work and thus improve his own life, and at the same time improves the pension security of this person, because today's pension provision, as we know, consists of the long work history that a person does during his life. That is why I hope that the responsibility in Finland will now be genuinely borne. When growth has finally been brought about, and finally after eight long years of walking in the wilderness, then there must be patience and reason here, otherwise this will not be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u73	Mr President! It is a real shame that the European Minister is not here specifically when it comes to this issue, because he is now giving a rather strange picture of Finland to the world: whether to be in the euro or not to be in the euro, whether to hold a referendum or not to hold a referendum, whether to hold a referendum now or sometimes in the future? In my opinion, these are rather dangerous speeches precisely because the Brexis are now being discussed. If Finland sends a message here that we too may be doing the same in the next few years, it will certainly look rather strange and also look scary from the EU side, and then it will also have an impact on those things, on the measures that we are doing with our export industry, on what we are buying, and on whether we dare to invest in Finland, on whether we dare to bring in the car industry and the battery industry, which we, at least in Vaasa, look forward to getting there too. As such, it is regrettable for the citizens at the moment — I do not know how the Bank of Finland could influence it, but perhaps the government could — that we have an increase in poverty. It even seems that we have planned poverty, although I am sure everyone knows that poverty does not improve the country's economy and does not add to the euro. For example, now that this change in housing allowance will transfer people to basic income support and the government knows it, what help will it be for our economy because money is only taken out of one pocket and it humiliates people? This direction to which we are going is somehow incomprehensible. Another thing I have to wonder about: when I happen to hear here that, among other things, officials in this house do Sipilä minutes — every day 6 minutes per day more work — in what way it increases Finnish exports, that parliamentary officials do
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u74	Mr President! I agree with Mr Tolppanen exactly with these British obligations. The Union must be able to clearly identify what they are, as it were, based on unpaid contributions, and the United Kingdom must pay for them. Pension obligations are a typical example of this. It is clear that, in the case of British citizens who have worked in the Union and whose pension has then been paid part of the Union's common budget, of course, their obligation must be passed on to Britain, and I think that we should be clear about this requirement that there should not even be a need to negotiate on such matters. But I do not immediately come up with a link through which any disputes that might arise could turn into an obligation of the ECB and, for example, the Bank of Finland, because these are not obligations relating to the ECB, but clearly obligations relating to the Union. Mr Hoskosen's reflection on these purchase programmes: There is a major monetary policy operation going on, but all that has been heard about it suggests that its scale, although it sounds huge in billions, has been considered, is consistently being done with the objective of approaching the inflation target set. However, it seems that the main purpose of this purchase programme, as it were, is to achieve that it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u75	Mr President! It is good to agree on this. I also believe that these purchasing programmes, even though they are very large in scale, have been such a stimulating monetary policy, which certainly has to be carried out in this situation. After all, in this Chamber, the definition of the ECB mandate has also been discussed in general in connection with the examination of this report by the Bank of Finland. That is why, as the President said in his presentation, this price stability will go ahead, and then, if necessary, employment can be supported if it does not jeopardise the objective of price stability, but it has often been asked whether employment could, on the whole, be more visible in that mandate. I was also very pleased with the line taken by the previous speaker, which I think is very clear, which means that Finland must insist that Britain assumes all its obligations as such. President! I will return to this euro, to the future of Europe, to this debate, because this has now been so timely. Yesterday at least I was very surprised when I read headlines about these statements by the European Minister, and I can imagine that if I am surprised here on Arkadianmäki, then certainly many others in that Europe and the world may start to look after Finnish politics. If the speaker is a European minister, these statements will not be trivial at the time, and I do have the impression that he is on the line at the moment, and hence also profiled in Finland, that Finland's line on whether we are going to be part of the European Union and the Eurosystem and everything else, then there is no such thing as grandfather's pants, steep non-juu-pants, yain-tailing pants. That is why I think it is important that the government should also clarify this line, and that it should also clearly ask its European Minister that this line also be in line with the government's line of action, because I think it is perfectly right to marvel from the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u76	Finally, Mr President, to the extent that it is absolutely necessary for Finland's national economy to understand at last and finally that, when, in the autumn of 2008, this major recession began and then the eight-year slump in that same swamp, GDP fell all the time, productivity fell, unemployment increased, so we are still in a situation where, according to a flat-rate table, we look at the growth of Finland's national economy at the current rate, we will achieve its 2008 GDP and productivity levels sometime in 2019. When we're looking for these scales and we're talking about growth rates, you have to keep your head cold and look at those numbers for real. At the moment we are at a good start of growth, but certainly not at a time when we have achieved something. We are on the right path — like the good navigator who once got lost in the woods back on the map and moves on, dozens of loads are still ahead, and all of them need to be found before we are in the finish line. But if this is the case, now let's get started with the fact that now we're getting big on this job and now we're doing all right, it's the wrong feeling. We have to face up to the facts. We're not strong in the economy yet. The bottom is already good under the feet, but this good road needs to be continued. Now, if we go on living, so to speak, beyond our means and become more indebted, it will not be good. Every MP in his own research chamber could look at the indebtedness of the household at the moment. Let us add one or two percentage points per year to that debt, just as to the debt of the state, and see, for example, what it has to do with this city, in the Greater Helsinki region. It would be a disaster for the homeowners. It would lead to such difficulties that I do not even begin to describe, as would many other growth centers. In other words, we must now be patient, that is an asset this time, and above all we must make sure that production is running, people get jobs and unemployment is falling. This road is the right road. We can politicize and be smart, but it's not going to be good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u77	Mr President! I take it for granted that the parties and ministers taking part in the government will abide by the agreement and line reached when the government is set up. We must maintain credibility here, just as Mr Viitanen said, also outwards. But at the same time there are debates on the future of Europe. Different political movements have different priorities on this issue, and it must also be possible to tolerate the fact that different political bodies have their own priorities, but when they clearly represent the government, they act on the government's line. One might say that Germany is also a good example of this variation. For years, it has stressed that no Treaty changes are being made, but now, suddenly, at the meeting in France, Germany announced in the week that a Treaty change could be considered, and this was on the part of Germany. So yes, you could say, these unpredictable elements can be searched for in much larger patterns than only in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u78	Mr President! This is certainly the case, and it is precisely because this debate is taking place in the European Union, at different levels, at different levels, at different levels, whether it is a question of defence policy or economic policy or anything else, which is precisely why we have repeatedly stressed that it would be good to have such a debate here in the Chamber of Parliament, including in this arena, because my own assessment is that, although things are currently being discussed, perhaps they are not so spectacularly on the agenda that we can see how big things are when we talk about this situation, where we are, at the moment, in the European Union as a whole. President! I also asked for this speech because I wanted to say that I agree exactly with Mr Hokkonen in saying that everything is not all right. Although we are now in the wind, we are going to have more debt, and this is not going to work, we have to get jobs. This is as if you were talking directly about the SDP's alternative budget. That is exactly what we have been thinking. That is why we are concerned about it. For example, when we discussed this report on the government's activities here last week, in the very next few days, the government itself explicitly stated in its own report that the government would not remain in its employment and debt objectives. And when that is the case, and we know that this should not be the case, of course, we would very much like to see corrective measures in the current economic policy direction. Now that Mrs Hoskonen knows the right principle, that the government should choose the right means, because the problem is that the government is increasingly in debt, that the employment objective is far removed, far behind and that the political choices are all over the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u79	Mr President! Now I had to ask for the floor because Mr Vanhanen spoke so mysteriously. You said, of course, what is true is that there are different parties in the government and different parties have a few different policies and ideas and some of their own ideas, which are then brought up, and as you mentioned, there have been such sudden developments in other parts of Europe. Is there something going on behind closed doors about actually going to some kind of euro vote, referendum, mini-brex or something else? Are the other government parties going on this journey? Of course, when new ministers come, we must, of course, give them some time, of course, so that they can get on with their mission and hopefully get on with it soon. I hope that the current ministers and former ministers, who are also present in this Chamber, will also be able to point out that, in fact, when you are a minister, you can forget their own personal position, then you are in favour of its ministry and its government, even though, unfortunately, it is often a slightly worse position than what we have thought, but when that is the case, then we will at least show ourselves unitedly outside the borders of the country. But for Mr Vanhanen: is there a ruckus going on there?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u80	Mr President! It's not like this is going on. I did not in any way refer to this, but the political debate that is now taking place in Europe clearly has different political orientations. We are politicians ourselves and we know that this is the case. Finding the right balance, especially in the multi-party government, for a party to display its own colour, but still to be committed to a common line, is a difficult question of balance. It's an art form. And especially when it comes to a MP who has had his own personal position and then comes to the government, it is difficult to move from that personal position to the common position. Then he can return to his personal position when the parliamentary term is running out. After all, the parliamentary debate requested by Mr Viitanen will come. In other words, at the end of May, the Prime Minister will announce the Prime Minister's statement on foreign and security policy and EU policy. It has been scheduled for the end of this spring in good time, because it was known that these official decisions on Brexit and the French elections are over. And this is a very good time for us to have a proper debate on the way in which Finland will enter into this debate on the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u81	Mr President! When this debate has also been the subject of a general debate on economic policy, I could not resist asking for the floor. Of course, the report of the Parliament's Banking Council gives it a very good data base, and here is a huge amount of good statistics and material for further work. I would also like to thank the Bank of Finland in particular for the excellent research that is being done there for other countries. It is very valuable to Finns. However, with regard to this general political reflection, which now exists on the basis of this debate, it must of course be acknowledged that very difficult decisions have been taken, and the economic situation, not to mention the stage at which the government came to power, was extremely difficult. But as has been referred here today to the cover of the tabloids and headlines, the economic situation has changed. For a long time, several research institutes and pension insurance institutions have become aware that growth may be even higher than estimated by the Ministry of Finance. The opposition is very well aware of how our Ministry of Finance operates. There the calculations are very moderate because it is the tradition and tradition that has been there. Now, however, it seems that after two years, all economic indicators have been turned in a better direction and there is no need to cut back on the whole parliamentary term, as has been the case during some parliamentary term. In addition to this European situation, I would like to say that, after all, there is also some sort of turmoil on the continental plates that, for the first time in France, a person from the political centre is going to be President, and in Holland, our sister-in-law, ALDE, won the election in a difficult situation. The Centre has also succeeded in doing good work in Finland’s economic policy during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u82	Mr President! When Mr Viitanen has just given a lecture on how their alternative budget has saved this world, perhaps it is worth looking at that alternative budget. [Quick Five] But that is what I am still paying attention to when we are talking about the euro, whether it is good or bad. It's no use crying about it now that we're in this situation and that's it. In time, with the Prime Minister's announcement, it would be... However, when we are discussing this issue today, we have discussed this matter before this day and I am sure that after today we will discuss this matter in depth, when with a little lighter arguments and when with a little better arguments, it is worth remembering that if, when we went to the euro, this matter had been thoroughly dealt with and not just with the Prime Minister's announcement, the normal vote, would probably be in a slightly better situation. This conversation should have happened then, really. Now we are in a situation where the old folk wisdom is also true: what you leave behind will surely be in front of you. Then this was not discussed, it went by the finger and just as usual, with a normal vote after the Prime Minister's announcement and with that onion. There was no kind of deep analysis, it was completely undone, we went a little like open jacket there and we didn't do the analysis. That's the basic reason. Let us recognise this fact, Mr Viitanen. If we deny and circumvent this fact, we are constantly in deeper and deeper swamps.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u83	Mr President! I was a little frightened that it is not possible to interpret this speech by Mr Hoskonen so that he, like our European minister, now wants to return to this debate, that the centre of Finland is also coming to this non-juu-pants line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-17-ps-55.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
