ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u2	Mr President! This government's proposal for a law on the Government concerns two issues which are not of enormous magnitude or importance, but nevertheless contain a few interesting details, which is why I am speaking here. Firstly, it is proposed that this law on the Government be amended so that the name of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs becomes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and once this amendment has been made, then it is possible to make the Minister for Foreign Affairs a foreign minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u7	Mr President! This careful intervention by Mr Räsänen shows, first of all, that it is a problem that the Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, is not here to present this bill. There are so many different points of view here that it would have been good for him to have been here and that this would have been brought to Parliament in such a way that we could have had a direct discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Soin, on this matter. The question, Mr President, is that I have considered the Minister for Foreign Affairs Soini to be a firm, old-fashioned man who adheres to conservative values and traditions, and now I see problems in the fact that, without greater reflection, we would be changing the name of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs into the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Of course, the first question that arises from this is that, if the Minister for Foreign Affairs is to be the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the future, will it become a common feeling that the Minister is outside and is no longer in control? [Department : In the yard! ] What, then, is the follow-up to this if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is turned into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? For example, what happens in this House: will it happen that one of the representatives accidentally calls the President-in-Office — that would be quite unheard of — not to mention that in the future someone in the Chamber could perform without tie and white sneakers? And what about the Finnish language: can it happen that we will in future introduce a gender-neutral pronoun, he-form? There is a debate on this in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u8	Mr President! I have known, and I thank Mr Arhinmäki for being a man with a sense of humor. You have also noticed that Finland is quite progressive in terms of our legislation and our language compared to Sweden, for example, and you are right to say that Mr Timo, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, The Soi is a conservative man, and I'm sure it will continue to be. But we are again demonstrating this progressiveness and ability to change in that we are turning as radically as we are turning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a very radical measure, but the government is prepared to make such progressive decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u9	All right, then we'll continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u10	Mr President! Quite properly: I am also surprised at the need for this proposal and, in part, the reasonableness of this proposal, in my opinion. This is about turning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into a Ministry of Foreign Affairs and turning the Minister of Foreign Affairs into a Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, this would lead to further progress in this chain — we have foreign affairs advisers who would become external advisers, foreign secretaries would become secretaries, and the operating expenses of the foreign service are being processed — and, if all this is removed, I think that it does give the wrong impression. For example, if the Foreign Service were only the policy of the foreign administration, it would no longer give the picture of what is common in the EU, for example. After all, there is still a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy in the EU — it uses a foreign policy package — and there is also a Foreign Affairs Council in the EU, not a Foreign Affairs Council. It is likely that Parliament will also have a debate with the Bureau and other actors on whether the Committee on Foreign Affairs can no longer be a Committee on Foreign Affairs or whether it will become a Foreign Affairs Committee. [Laughter — Parliament: No change, no change!] In my opinion, this does not lead this whole in a sensible direction. At the moment we have a President of the Republic, which is quite commonly spoken of as President, however, when it is written and spoken several times in the same news, for example, and that is quite natural, or when the Government is used in the form of government and so forth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u11	President! Of course, there are reforms and pseudo-reforms. I do not want to underestimate the consideration that has been made here, but it is too narrow in my opinion. Mr Heinonen made an excellent speech on what this logic, even if taken forward, would lead to. And I can't quite believe that this logic in the government's proposal is very healthy or sustainable, and it can't stand international comparisons either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u14	Mr President! First of all, there is the Secretary of State, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Soins have been asked to be present, it seems a little strange, of course, when this is a proposal from the Prime Minister's office. [Foresdom: Well, he is not at the site! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u15	Mr President! Yes, I said that we have a 'President of the Republic' and then the others are 'Presidents', but it was precisely because I described the fact that we have a general description in speaking language, in the news, in the media, in the press so that 'President Niinistö met President Putin', and it does not repeat that official form every time. With this I wanted to describe the fact that, as is currently the case, we are talking about 'Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Soin', although he is officially 'Minister for Foreign Affairs'. In my opinion, it does not need to be technically changed when, on a global scale, for example, as I pointed out, there is a 'High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy' in the European Union and there is also a 'Foreign Affairs Council' in the EU, and I do not believe that the European Union is going to change these either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u16	Mr President! Here, Mr Arhinmäki wished the Foreign Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Timo Soini, to be held accountable and to explain this bill, but this is indeed the case with Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, and in that sense he would in principle have had this presentation. However, I agree with Mr Essayah that the question of this amendment to the title of the State Department, which is more significant than that of the State Department, is linked to this change in the power of appointment. I would hope that when there are representatives of the government parties here and you may have been informed of the direction in which the regulation on this is pending and is under way, someone could shed some light on this in this context. As far as this change of title is concerned, I would like to say that it is justified by the fact that the term 'Foreign Affairs' or 'Foreign Affairs Minister' is now being used in a well-established way, but I fully agree that we should continue to retain the name 'Foreign Affairs' in the official language and certainly also 'Foreign Affairs Committee' in the future is the name that is natural rather than 'Foreign Affairs Committee'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u17	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that, in some cases, the short-term fixed-term employment relationship can be extended quite a number of times, when, in fact, those who are qualified for the post in question have not really been able to participate in that process. In that sense, I think it is justified that the Council of State as a whole should deal with such appointments, even if they are fixed-term, in which case it can be assumed that, after a short period of time, it will also have continuity, which will give everyone the opportunity to be properly elected, and it will be up to the State to hire the best possible person for that task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u18	Mr President! After following this debate, whether it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or whatever else, I am forced to say that I would still like to see such old, valuable names respected, because to preserve the traditions that have been born in this country, even as a democracy, for 100 years as an independent state, I would be happy to see those good titles that are inherited there still being preserved. It is not the wisest and best that goes with modern winds. I refer to Mr Kanerva's comment, which I very much appreciate, that there are probably more important things to decide in this House than such matters. But I hope, however, that this kind of tradition and these old good titles will remain, because it creates that dignity and prestige. It is only one way to acquire it, yes with political action and the care of things and the firmness of its dignity achieved, if achieved, but not with such things as things worth now in this economic situation for a very long time to wax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u19	President! It feels like October has become the rotten moon of politics. Yesterday, when we had to deal with European cultural heritage, we talked about the issue of veterans, and now it seems that this established practice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is becoming a bigger issue than life. I don't think this is going to be a real problem. Although the provinces were abolished, the county artists did not become avi-artists or ely artists, and even though the provinces had been dissolved, neither did the military provinces immediately leave. These are circular things. However, the very fundamental question is this, which I would like to see raised more debate, which Mr Räsänen started with, namely that we are opening up a new practice here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u20	Mr President! Mr Räsänen spoke in a state-manlike manner and gave a good description of the failings of this motion. Mr Heinonen and Mr Kanerva also made excellent speeches. I am now making a very constructive proposal about the opposition: the government, in its wisdom, could withdraw this proposal with too light a preparation. At the same time, this proposal is a good example of the fact that it is not good for the proposal that it is a government proposal. The important thing is where the proposal is leading, and when a government proposal leads to something that the whole parliament, including the government, feels a little uncomfortable, that this is not really going well, it can always be withdrawn. So let's be consistent and let's use this good line that the government has been doing over the last two years to withdraw the bad proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u21	Mr President! This proposal under discussion seems reasonable. Let's proceed on this basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u22	Mr President! I was just about to say the same thing, and I say the same thing: it does not always have to be a regulation in itself when the bill is in place. In itself, this designation policy may go a little far when Parliament is not a municipality either. We are not the smallest municipality in Finland, but we are the Finnish Parliament, but these old names can be used as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u23	Mr President! It used to be good. This would have been a good time for both Foreign Minister Soini and Prime Minister Soini. Sipilä would have been opening this bill, as has been evident from this debate. What is striking is the broad front of criticism, which has come precisely from the government parties. The Hoskonen-Heinonen-Kanerva line is quite clear. So it would appear that the only person to whom this performance has received unanimous praise is the blue group. Is this one of the significant fingerprints of blues in government policy that cannot be given away in the face of reason? This cannot be such a question of principle for you, can it? Mr President! Mr Kivelä, the regional artist title was about to be abandoned, but the then Minister for Culture said that this good name would be adhered to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u24	Mr President! From this debate on what has been going on here: although it is fun, I can’t help but feel like I should get a little dignity and stick to it. As the previous speeches advertised and said, Arhinmäki is a humorist man, but now that we are in Parliament and the Chamber of Parliament and this is a very serious government proposal, why not have a proper debate? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u25	Mr President! Of course, due diligence is always important, but people are also talking on the streets at the moment about what language is, where it is going. This is a valuable debate in itself. We have a lot of titles, like an official, a juryman, a lawyer. Am I, then, if I were to serve as a jury, a boardman, who I am? These are important, because it is probably not really appropriate that we become totally ridiculous associations because of bad language. Representative Journal took over from me an important matter, deadlines and state administration. I myself have worked for the government for a long time, and I myself was eight years in time. The state has been pretty tough on chaining these things up, and the state and state administration should always be exemplary in the fact that employment relationships are such that people are not hanged there in loose logs. It's worse for the government than it is for private people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u26	Mr President! It should also be noted that Parliament has converted the Ministry of the Interior into the Ministry of the Interior, and this is in a certain way consistent. The language of use can be taken forward. Of course, Parliament will also take decisions on all government proposals, and on this basis this march order will go according to the estimates of the representatives. As far as county artists are concerned, they could be called today, now even with the amendment of the law, Taike artists, because the title of the county artist is a purely cover for the work that the county artists have done in the past, especially within the framework of the Arts Councils and not just in Helsinki. Finally, Mr President, when Mr Ala-Nissilä said that this is the smallest municipality, it is good to remember that Parliament is a people in miniature, but the representative is a man in miniature.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u28	Mr President! To Mr Ross, it was intended to retain the title of a county artist because it is well-known and reflects the fact that it is precisely in the region that the work of promoting art is being done, it is not being done from any point of view. But what is essential here is the debate on the issue of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u29	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Arhinmäki for these humorous speeches. As a friend of good humor, I can even appreciate bad humor. I agree with Mr Turuse that I would be happy to hear the proper criticism, the relevant proposals, of this government proposal. For example, representatives like Räsänen and Essayah have become such. And, of course, this humor value of Mr Arhinmäki in this regard, as far as blue is concerned, is somewhat reduced by the fact that when you turn into a party, then certain speeches will probably fade away from that representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u30	Mr. Speaker! The question raised here is this problem of the chaining of fixed-term employment, but it does not apply to these posts, which are now being called at the Council of State. In the case of these posts, it is mainly the case that the former official has resigned and then is looking for a new one and that a temporary replacement is needed. So I would not regard this question of chaining as any important issue here. In my opinion, the problem with this proposal is simply that this will not open up at the end of the day what is the government's ambition and will here, what kind of regulation we want to lay down here: whether we want to continue with the current practice or whether we want to move temporary appointments to the Council of State to be decided. And this will, of course, have an impact on the day-to-day work in the ministries and also on the possible political nature of these appointments. When Mr Ala-Nissila said here that these regulations are not always ready, that is also true. But I think that in all circumstances Parliament should ask for a draft regulation to be seen when it is given the power to adopt a regulation. Yes, Parliament has the right to know the direction in which the regulation is being enacted, or at the very least to hear the ministry and the minister that what is the state of mind here, and it is therefore, of course, a pity that the Prime Minister, Juha Sipilä, has made this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u31	Mr President! This conversation can be serious and funny, but it's still relevant. I believe that what is essential in this debate is what this change of name is intended to achieve. Just as Mrs Räsänen, Mrs Essayah and many others, I would point out that this will lead to an increasing concentration of power in the Prime Minister's Office. What confuses us in this debate is that a number of representatives of the government parties are very critical of this, and I wonder that when we were in the government last season, these proposals were always brought to the attention of the groups on Wednesdays and there the group leaders signed off and gave their approval to those presentations. What are the decision processes, what is there during this reign? Have you not known, then, in other government parties that such a change is coming? Mr Zyskowicz mentioned yesterday in a debate when we discussed money that money does not come from space. The question arises as to whether this decision has been made in space.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u32	Mr President! This establishment and fulfilment of fixed-term employment is not a small matter. It is actually a typical way to recruit in the private sector. Quite few jobs are created directly into an employment relationship that is valid for an indefinite period. But for applicants, it is a way of displacement if you want to use it so that you can't even get it. Moreover, a fixed-term employment relationship, if you are, for example, related to parental leave, can last for a number of years: up to 9 or 12 years, depending on how many parental leave there are in a row. It is also a worse signal for those who have trained and trained themselves for more demanding tasks. In my opinion, the current fixed-term employment relationship does not have the right of the employer to stop it, even if the perpetrator has clear shortcomings in coping with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u33	At this point in the debate, I would ask you to reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u34	Mr President! The matter of names is certainly a small matter if we go to change the name, but certainly not insignificant. And with regard to whether it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is much clearer to say, and I think that this change of name is in order. Language is evolving all the time, and usually complex sentence structures or words do not serve the purpose itself. Certainly no one will think that if the name were changed to the State Department, then things would be left undone. And when it comes to fixed-term periods, it may be a small remnant that there would be such lifelong posts, even though they are true at some point. But there's always a side to fixed-term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u35	Mr President! As we can see from this debate, how the speaker says is important. I intended to raise a debate specifically on the periodicity and chaining of state administration. I myself was eight years in time, and in government it is so that it does not become a permanent post as a private person. The only way to do that is to wait for what happens whenever the temporaryity is on. However, that is the way it is, and I wanted to send my greetings to the state administration, so that this issue would be noticed there too, and that is a very important issue. I personally believe that this was a valuable debate, however, because at the moment there is a great deal of public talk about what can be said today — the President-in-Office, the President — what is at stake here, and whether this is a little nonsense, that we should focus on matters and allow the language to develop on its own and not forcefully twist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u36	Mr President! Indeed, here at the moment, the practice between the Government and the ministries is based on the Statute, and the Statute states that appointments in the General Assembly of the Government will be settled for a term of office of more than one year which falls within the competence of the Government. In practice, then, these appointments for temporary posts of less than one year have been made by the Ministry and, of course, the minister concerned has had significant decision-making powers. But I would like to point out that for years this cannot be continued, but the practice is that, if, in an exceptional situation, we have to continue to maintain that deadline so that we go beyond that year, then the next deadline has always been brought to the General Session of the Government, at least during the last parliamentary term. So, according to that statute, that year was considered to be the limit. And now I would be very interested to know how to change this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u37	Mr President! When it is said so many times that there is no support from the opposition for the government's proposals, I now want to show support: I am doing well with the 'Minister for Foreign Affairs' and I believe that the Finnish people are doing well too, and the name does not make the man worse. We must now see that there is not this evil resistance to change on the right side of the Chamber — that opposition and non-party opposition are being made, especially in a matter which, as I understand it, does little harm to anyone's life. However, I will pay attention to one thing, and that is the economic impact. I hope that this proposal will have no financial impact and that it will not include any of the Minister's waiting arrangements and that it will be enough to correct the title. And if that is the case, then I understand that these income-sharing effects, often called for by the opposition, have not been made in this context either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u38	Mr President! The language is evolving, and it should be. In reality, the language has already developed in such a way that, as a former official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I can say, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are used. The language has already evolved into this arch. By this I do not want to say that we should turn the Committee on Foreign Affairs into a foreign committee. And as a former foreign counsel and still with the same title, I don't want to be an outside counselor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u39	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u40	Mr President! This is indeed a question of implementing Directives III and IV on payment services. In particular, this now applies to the types of payment service providers that do not provide the entire bank service repertoire. During this time, considering how different instruments can be used to pay, there are telephone payments and there are many channels on the Internet where you are not required to have a bank account in the background, but there is a authentication system and then this payment intermediary will see to it that the payment goes forward. In the European Parliament, I was involved in the adoption of this directive, and in this, these consumer aspects were particularly important. For example, someone else can get their hands on the phone, and if a payment service broker does not require such a strong identification, then neither can it be thought that a payment service user is very much responsible for perhaps making some purchases that he would not have made on his stolen phone. In my opinion, this consumer aspect has been highlighted, that is to say, it has been reduced from EUR 150 to EUR 50, and it is precisely the focus placed on the service provider that the service provider must demand a strong identification. So if anyone can very easily go and pay, then the responsibility of this service provider is also great in this situation. All in all, it could be said that this directive has left quite a lot of such national room for manoeuvre. Now, I have not been able to read all this nivasa, but I believe that wise choices have been made here in Finland within the limits of the directive. In that sense, this certainly is the present day, that there are more and more different ways to pay and identify ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u41	Mr President! I hope that, when the committee deals with this, it will be able, as one aspect, to take the issue of digital exclusion and the main problems associated with it, the most important of which are the problems of identification. It is difficult for older people to understand different aspects of identification, which also leads to these mistakes, which may also lead to consequences, and it is very important that these aspects are taken into account in this debate. After extensive discussion and research into how this digitality is best suited to these electronic transactions, what are the biggest thresholds and problems, it is precisely this protection of identification, security, and accessibility for all. Now digital services are not accessible to all people. We must ensure that this so-called right to information is created for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u42	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u43	Mr President! It is very much to be welcomed that the rehabilitation instructors graduating from polytechnics will be legalised professionals in the social field in the future. However, there is still concern about this issue, as in the future rehabilitation guidance training will obviously not be able to act as a health care professional and most of the rehabilitation instructors’ jobs will be on the health care side. There is such a risk that rehabilitation counselors will not get a job for themselves after graduation. More than one rehabilitation counselor has contacted me and told me that employers have said that they do not hire rehabilitation counselors for work because they do not have the status of a health care professional. The problem has been experienced in the work community, among other things, that a social worker does not have access in all places to make entries to the health care system for clients and patients, and this is a major deficiency. I would have asked the Minister if he had been here to present the matter, whether the ministry had considered whether these greetings were also received from the Ministry. But when he is not here, I very much hope that the committee will be careful to clarify this issue, because it makes no sense to train people into the profession if they do not have employment opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u44	Mr President! This bill, which is now under discussion, is extremely important. On 1 March 2016, the Act on Social Welfare Professionals, which legalised professionals with social workers, socionomists and genomics degrees, entered into force. The law also gave the right to use a titled professional title. The professional titles of a social care professional protected by the title are local care provider, home manager and care provider for people with mental disabilities. This rehabilitation director's degree, which we are talking about today, was excluded from this legislation, and it was, of course, an issue on which many people here expressed their views. I also made an initiative for action myself, and it is a great thing now that the initiative for action has, in a way, gone through, because the director of rehabilitation is made to be classified as a professional examination. What is it, then, this rehabilitation counselor? A polytechnic degree in social welfare and health, whose degree title is a rehabilitation instructor, is completed in the degree programme of the rehabilitation instructor. The rehabilitation instructor’s degree provides the ability to perform guidance, counselling, planning, coordination and development tasks in various areas of rehabilitation in the public, private and third sectors and as an entrepreneur. The rehabilitation instructor is able to evaluate and promote the everyday survival and working opportunities of people of different ages and people in different life situations. The rehabilitation instructor implements and coordinates rehabilitation in cooperation with other rehabilitation professionals and has versatile guidance and counselling skills. He is also familiar with the multidisciplinary knowledge base, rehabilitation practices as well as the current legislation on rehabilitation and is able to use the international ICF reference framework, which relates to functional, functional and health issues. It really was a shame that the rehabilitation counselor had to wait until he was legalized, but now it is. True, their activity image and field of activity is extensive and very important in Finland. The need for rehabilitation instructors is also further emphasised here in an ageing Finland where rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities are of great importance. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, in your speech you raised a very important concern about the way in which the rehabilitation director is taken into account in health care, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, of which I myself am a member, will certainly deal with this issue in a very diverse way. But we also have this problem with many other professional titles, and genomics are one of them. We are social welfare workers, not in the health records at all, and that is something that might have to be considered in some way as to whether it would then be there in education, that those who have completed the training of a social welfare genomician, for example, would study some more of the health care sector itself, such as medical care and so on. But it is a very good thing that now this legislative issue is progressing and rehabilitation counselors can continue their studies and then happily consider that they also have the opportunity to work under a legalized professional title.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u45	Mr President! This is where Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen was concerned about the employment situation and prospects of the rehabilitation instructors. Now that social welfare and health care are being reformed, the aim is to integrate social welfare and health care services. That is why I would see that this counselling of rehabilitation is indeed the sector of the future, because it does indeed combine both the social and health care sectors and objectives. For example, in Siu’s war, which is one of such a model of social welfare reform, there is strong counselling on rehabilitation in its own sector, which therefore provides guidance and advice in connection with the rehabilitation and service system, and people, customers in the Siu’s social welfare area can contact the rehabilitation counselor directly without a referral, and thus receive support, advice and guidance for operations. At the same time, they act as a contact person between a hospital, home, day care centre, school or professionals taking part in rehabilitation and various service systems, as if they were long-term ill or disabled or other rehabilitation workers. I see that in the future there will be a demand for rehabilitation guidance and rehabilitation instructors as the population ages and the need for rehabilitation increases anyway. In that sense, we are talking about the profession of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u46	Mr President! This is a very good proposal in that, as Mr Juvonen said, this bill will put the main professional groups in social services on a legal level. In his speech, Mr Juvonen also said that this problem I raised concerns other occupational groups than those responsible for rehabilitation, and that is why this must be addressed in the future. The current work input of rehabilitation instructors is quite often on the health care side, and there is exactly the same problem in your mess, for example, that rehabilitation counselors have informed me that it is a little difficult to get that job because it is hoped and assumed that there would also be a health care professional in order to be able to make the relevant changes or entries in health care patient and customer registers, and this now becomes a problem, which is why I said that employment can be difficult. So I fully agree with Mr Räsänen that the director of rehabilitation will be a very important and important professional group in the future, and its importance will become even more important when the reform of social welfare and health care and all the new challenges come from that side. But that is the problem of employment if the employer considers that you should also be a health care professional.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u47	Mr President! Just as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has said in his speech, this is a very important issue and there are many questions still at all with different qualifications, how to proceed. The transitional period provided for by the law in force last year, which entered into force and legalised social welfare workers, is extended in such a way that the rehabilitation directors now have sufficient time to apply for the right to pursue a professional activity from the Social Welfare and Health Administration, Valvira, i.e. to place an application there and then come to know about this right. It is also proposed to extend the transitional period in order to safeguard the rights of other persons seeking the right of employment or the right to title protection in the event of a possible delay in the processing of applications — thus extending this transitional period, which is a very good thing. Over the last few days, we in Parliament have been discussing, among other things, the situation of the rehabilitation of veterans and the supplementary budget will provide them with that additional resources. There has been a problem and there has been a message from many localities that there are no workers, there are no people who take it home from rehabilitation, for example, to a veteran's home. The rehabilitation director is one person who can take a booth on this issue, so there is a great need and order for them. When we talk all the time that rolling stone is not mossed and should be a rehabilitative labour force and that we can live longer and longer in that home, that means that guidance and support are needed for it, and the rehabilitation director is the right person for it. But I am sure that the committee will deal with this very well, and that would be the dream and dream that we will then also be able to get these people into this health register. I fear that it will not succeed, but we will and will continue to work hard in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u48	Mr President! It is certainly a good thing that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also examines this concern as to how the rehabilitation instructors might also be able to obtain that status as a health care professional. It also, of course, requires the necessary training, particularly in the health sector. From the point of view of customers, patients, it is very important that access to rehabilitation should be as strict as possible, which is why I raised this example of Siu's health care, where you can get to the rehabilitation director without a referral, and I think that this practice should be everywhere. In this connection, I would also like to highlight the problem that, in order to get to the physical therapist, for example, we often have to get a referral from a doctor and queue for this referral. For example, in Helsinki, it has been estimated that when occupational health in Helsinki has opened the direct reception of physiotherapists, it has saved several million euros in sick absence costs and has received tens of thousands of additional days of workable work. I think that this direct reception practice would be justified in the context of the social welfare reform as a purely national practice — for example, the right of access to the direct reception of physiotherapist is enshrined in the legislation in Norway — and the same applies, of course, to rehabilitation instructors, which are often needed when more complex problems are involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u49	Mr President! In conclusion, I just hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will take a positive view and take a position on this matter in principle and, in its report, even if Mr Räsänen has mentioned the possibilities of developing education, that this issue should be brought forward and that it will not stop there. In that sense, the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health could make a difference in terms of the approach the committee takes on this issue. Of course, in the short term, this employment issue would be facilitated if we could have some changes to these recording practices, that is, if it were possible to have these registrations also in the health care customer and patient registers. From the point of view of overall care, I understand this difficulty that if the registrations of a very important occupational group, such as the rehabilitation instructors, are not reflected in the total registration, then it will be a slight obstacle to working there in everyday health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u50	Mr President! Of course, this bill, as in everything, has the economic impact, and that is what we always think about here, what it is like. Here, of course, the immediate financial consequences come from the decision-making process in relation to the granting of the right to self-employment of rehabilitation directors. In other words, we are talking about those who are now taking these decisions, in other words Valvira, whose resources need to be taken into account. I believe that every bill, which is done in such a way that it affects Valvira, must also ensure that they have the resources to then take those measures there and act as an authority. Then, of course, one small thing that affects the nurse herself who applies for access to the register and legalized title protection is that it pays this student. In other words, the fact that the petition is sent and at the same time paid — electronically these things are happening today — is always such a small gap in the purse. Students and those who have just graduated from the profession often have a tight financial situation, and then they always have to criticise extra fees for those in the beginning of their profession, and I am, of course, criticising this now. But I'm glad we can get this professional register done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u51	Mr President! Indeed, this bill is welcome and expected. The position of social welfare managers in the current labour market is indeed uncertain, and employers have taken a very reserved attitude towards hiring non-legalised professionals who previously required the eligibility of a social director. Indeed, this bill, as has certainly been mentioned in previous speeches, proposes to amend the law on social welfare professionals, and indeed that law will be supplemented by a director of rehabilitation. But what I would like to point out here is that it is very important that in future consideration should be given to integrating the social welfare professional register and the health professional register into one single register. I think this would be very important. Now that we are in the process of reforming social welfare and health care — I hope it will go to the finish line — it is really important that we also have this single register. I hope that the government will make rapid progress here. I am in favour of this bill, but of course we are going through this carefully in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and if there are any need for change and the changes are justified, then we will do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u52	Mr President! The point of view that has not yet been raised here in the debate is customer safety. In practice, this registration also means that these professionals can be monitored in the future, their qualifications and their activities can be monitored. After all, we have these registers of professionals in public debate, mainly through fake doctors and fake nurses, and then in the future we could not have fake rehabilitation instructors, but would be carefully registered and monitored to ensure that those persons who act as counselors of rehabilitation have received appropriate training and appropriate permits. Of course, this will also be able to maintain the high level and high level of competence and strengthen the customer safety of social care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u53	Mr President! It is very important that these rehabilitation counselors come into the category of legalized professional titles and thus into the social welfare register. But here I had a background discussion with a few colleagues. Usually a doctor sends a referral here, and this is largely the public sector activity, but when these people do not have the health care registration, i.e. they are not on that side of the register, then obviously the Kela substitution of these treatments is not possible if someone from there in private would like to go to the rehabilitation director's packages and ask what to do. So, in the sense that Mr Sarkomaa raised this issue here, should these registers have to be entered in one common register, this is probably a longer-term issue too. But that is what I would like to see if a colleague here has a clear view of this, whether or not there is this Kela substitution for these treatments. Of course, when it comes to the doctor’s referral and we are on that side, that is the case, but if, as a private person, I would like to ask what kind of rehabilitation programme should be followed, then this type of rehabilitation could not be compensated on the Kela side either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u54	Mr President! Indeed, this registration will help to provide effective guidance and supervision for social care professionals, as Mrs Räsänen said. So, of course, this guarantees the right of social services customers to good social care. This proposal would indeed improve the registration of social care carers and provide appropriate guidance for the supervision and supervision of the authorities. According to several studies, these direct receptions, which are available to physiotherapists and nurses, are effective for the ability to work, for example the direct reception of physiotherapists, and they save resources but also increase job satisfaction. Above all, the patient’s treatment will improve. And it is very important that, as a whole, when the reform of social welfare and health care is carried out, the sections are made in such a way that direct reception is possible. The Kela compensation is now due to leave. Of course, there's not much left of it because it's been cut. I do not think it has been justified, it has been a good way to promote freedom of choice. The legal reform of social welfare and health care needs to consider very carefully that direct reception is possible. This will make best use of the full range of social and health care professionals. Of course, the activities for which a doctor’s referral is needed are his own team, but direct reception is the future. I hope that our social welfare reform will not be doctor-oriented, but will make use of the skills of all the social services staff. This is particularly important in rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u55	Mr President! Mr Päivi Räsänen, you pointed out exactly what is at the heart of these registers and issues, namely customer safety, patient safety and the fact that the customer knows that the person caring for him, whether a doctor or a nurse, is indeed educated and has a profession. Social care professionals are registered in the Public Favorite Register and health care professionals are registered in the JulkiTerhikki Register. It works so fast that here I typed my own information — I am an assistant nurse, a carer and a genomician — and I found my own information here. So by clicking on the person’s name so quickly, you can get the clarity that the person close to you must have gone to training. So these registers always have their place. How, then, does the person who may not be registered pass the information — both to students and also to those who have been in employment for a long time now — that such a possibility is at the moment that it does not happen then that you are not accidentally registered and then there is no information on these sites? What is very worrying is that it has not been so long since there was another case like this that was not a nurse but appeared as a nurse, did the nursing work. In other words, we need to be vigilant, and we need to make registers for that. It is a great thing that you raised a very important point, Mr Sarkomaa, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: Why could these registers not be combined? Why do you have to be two different? Of course, that would certainly make things easier for us to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u56	Mr President! I would like to refer to that speech by Mr Sarkomaa. Even before that, I raised this physical therapist's direct reception activities, and I have also raised a written question about it recently. Indeed, I hope that it will be promoted, because it has had very good experiences. There is, of course, also this whole issue of rehabilitation guidance, and I also hope that in the future we will have access to all the social welfare areas without a referral to the rehabilitation director, who will be able to look at large entities from the point of view of this person and his family, the kind of services he needs in different contexts. If you think only of musculo-skeletal diseases, they plague one in five people of working age, more than one in three pensioners. More than a million Finns have a long-term musculo-skeletal disease, i.e. they already need rehabilitation and rehabilitation guidance, not to mention that rehabilitation is not only related to the physical health of a person. It has to do with how to act in different social situations, and it also has to do with mental health problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u57	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 9/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general discussion begins — Mr Tolvanen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u58	Mr President! We are dealing with the government's proposal for legislation on the combination of penalties, and I shall now outline the main points of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The Government's proposal proposes to replace the full sentence in prison with a combined sentence consisting of unconditional imprisonment and a probation period of one year immediately thereafter. This is a new penal code in which the sentenced person has no possibility of discretionary parole or probation. The conditions for the conviction of a combined sentence are the same as the current conditions for the execution of the entire sentence in prison. Compared to the current situation, there is a one-year period of supervision aimed at supporting the planned and gradual release of the prisoner, thereby maintaining and promoting the capacity of the person to be supervised to become part of society and thus to reduce the number of repeat offenders. A penalty period plan will be drawn up for the probationary period, the subject matter of which is assessed by the Prisoner’s Health Service as a risk of committing a violent crime. During the probation period, a person is required to remain in an apartment approved by the Criminal Sanctions Agency, to remain intoxicant in activities related to the execution of the sentence, and to participate in activities assigned to the prisoner that contribute to his or her social capacity and ability to live a life without crime. During the monitoring period, compliance with the penalty period plan will be monitored by technical means, in practice by means of an electrically located footband, as well as by personal contacts. The probation period is part of the combined sentence and does not require the consent of the prisoner. A serious breach of obligations results in the court turning the probation period into absolute imprisonment. The mandatory probation period of one year immediately following the sentence of imprisonment is more severe for the target group than the current execution of the entire sentence in prison. Therefore, the new provisions can only be applied to a crime committed after the entry into force of this law — that is to say, we follow the principle of a less stringent law, and that is why the results of this law will not be visible until the next decade. Prisoners who have completed the entire sentence, namely those who have been identified as the most dangerous to the life and health of another, will, as a rule, be released from prison to society without support and supervision. According to the committee, it is a problem for these very prisoners to be released without a period of social integration and training for a life without crime. According to the proposal, the use of new means of control is supported by the relatively high risk of renewal of the group of prisoners and, in particular, the grossness of the offences to be repeated. In practice, however, this regulation applies to a very small number of prisoners. According to the report, 33 people are currently serving the entire sentence and only about 3 are released each year. According to the report received by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, new offences committed by those who have carried out the entire sentence after release are generally serious. Most have been aggravated assaults, but also other serious crimes of violence and sex. There have been three attempts at killing. This renewal has mainly taken place within a year of liberalisation, which is significant because the proposed monitoring period would cover this very date. According to the reports, it appears that the repetition of crimes has been less frequent for prisoners who have been released through some form of control than for those who have been released directly from prison. This can be seen as a positive factor and thus as a supporting factor in the use of means of control. Mr President! Having assessed the above as a whole, the committee considers that it is necessary to improve the release of the entire group of convicts who carry out the sentence, including through increased supervision and support. The committee considers this to be justified and appropriate by the introduction of a combined penalty proposed by the government. In the assessment of the sanction presented, the committee has drawn attention to the fact that the whole sentence requires the renewal of serious crimes in itself, and that the repeated acts following the execution of the sentence are, as a general rule, serious. It is therefore a specific target group that needs to be taken into account in terms of liberalisation, control and support. The fact that the crime renewal has taken place mainly within one year of the full sentence is in favour of imposing control measures specifically for the period of one year after imprisonment. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights asked the Constitutional Committee for an opinion on this matter. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the proposed regulation is alien to the system of criminal law, since the reprehensibility of a criminal act and the related threat of punishment are laid down in a well-established manner in the context of each offence. The fact that the maximum length of the sentence resulting from the crime is not reflected in the penalty provision for the offence is not, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, entirely unproblematic. In short, however, the Constitutional Committee has seen this regulation as possible. At this stage, I would like to say that this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs contains a clause on two articles with amendments. This objection has been made here in the Chamber by Vice-President Biaudet and Mr Laukkanen, who supported it, so we will probably hear more about this statement from the Constitutional Committee later on. The Committee on Legal Affairs is proposing the adoption of this report and has indeed tabled amendments to the law — 1, 2 and 5. the draft law — but the other laws attached to it are presented for adoption as unaltered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u59	Mr President! This combined penal code has been a very demanding package, it has been prepared for six years. In other words, there has been no wind hat in the legislation, but really something of a nature whose content has not been quite self-evident. The committee also dealt with this for almost a year, and at this stage, Mr President, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee advisers for having received, in my opinion, a very careful report. The procedure was difficult, demanding, and yet the committee did a careful job, brought about changes that improved and supplemented the proposal: the distribution of costs was clarified; the cost of living was clearly introduced into the law, which is responsible; the control of intoxication became more precise, it became one with which we could think that we could move forward. The combined sentence, in which the sentence of imprisonment is immediately followed by a mandatory probation period of one year, is more severe for the target group than the current sentence in prison. Therefore, the new provisions can only be applied to a criminal offence committed after the entry into force of the law. The objective of releasing prisoners who are extremely dangerous to life and health to society without risk is very important. For example, Sasu Tyn’s doctoral dissertation last year found that the effectiveness of prison care should be targeted according to the estimated level of risk of the offender. As the chairman of the committee has said here, this proposal means a very small group of people and about three or four such people are being released back into society every year, and it is significant that any support action that succeeds in their integration and return to society after a long period of imprisonment is desirable — not easy but desirable. The legislative proposal on the combination of penalties requires extensive legislative amendments. The proposal proposes amendments to a total of 12 laws and 69 articles, of which 39 are completely new. Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, has already mentioned that we, together with Mrs Biaudet, have raised an objection to this, and this objection is based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And while the Constitutional Committee's idea of what kind of changes should be made to this was neither very significant nor very long, and it is attached here, the principle which addressed us here with Mr Biaudet was the value that Parliament and the committees attach to the opinions of the Constitutional Committee. In a way, for the sake of this appreciation and, if I am to be frank, for the sake of the marching order, we felt it was important and stressed that what the Constitutional Committee was saying should also be taken into account when the Constitutional Committee did not insist on something but gave a hint as to which direction it would be good to go. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out to the Committee on Legal Affairs that it would be possible for the combined penalty to exceed the maximum sentence for the offence. For example, manslaughter can be sentenced to a maximum of eight years in prison. If the District Court condemns the killing of a full eight-year prison sentence and a further one-year probation period, the total sentence is 9 years. Thus, the maximum length of the sentence is different from what appears in the section of the offence. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that 'the proposed regulation is possible from a constitutional point of view, although it should be treated with great caution' — hint number 1. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights should consider amending section 2 so that 'the maximum length of the combined penalty remains within the penalty scale of each provision'. We believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs should take the recommendations of the Constitutional Committee seriously into account now and in the future. We therefore believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs should have come up with a solution which amends the article as proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In view of the above, we propose that the legislative proposals be adopted otherwise than in accordance with the committee's report, except for Sections 11 and 2 of Chapters 2c and 6 of the draft law. modified, which will then make this text more explicit. I believe that Mr Biaudet' s speech will further deepen this view and bring new perspectives to this, as will then be the subject of the debate. Finally, this report is so demanding and rich in content that, although it had been discussed for a year, it still had to be read more than once in order to fully get in on how well our competent committee advisers can prepare these matters, under the leadership of an excellent chairman, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u60	Mr President! As the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, pointed out in the presentation text, this would be a new sentence consisting of unconditional imprisonment and subsequent supervision. This combined penalty could be condemned to a repeater of a serious crime, who must be regarded as extremely dangerous to the life, health or freedom of another person. Indeed, the proposal has been prepared for a long time, and it is understandable in itself because it takes a stand on so many laws and amends a considerable number of laws. The adoption of the combined penalty proposed will mean the introduction of a new type of punishment with control. The Committee on Legal Affairs heard a number of experts on this issue and also considered simplifying the name of the combined penalty, since the sanctions system already has a number of different types of sanctions, which include different types of supervision. The Committee believes that this is precisely the point of view which should be considered in the future, since our system is already quite complex and difficult to outline. The term 'combination penalty' reflects the composition of the sentence in various elements, but it does not clearly describe the combination of imprisonment now being presented and the period of supervision that followed. However, we did not find any other solution, so the Committee on Legal Affairs said that we would end up adopting it. But this is an important question because it is precisely the task of the legislation to create those rules of the game and to tell us what is right and wrong, and the legislation is also intended to guide the action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u61	Ärade talman, Mr President! Even if I'd rather say "President." Let this be said today in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u62	Mr President! As already mentioned by the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, who, by the way, I think is the best expert on the subject of this motion in the Chamber, having been the head of a violent crime unit in the police department, has already presented this motion, which is intended to bring into the criminal code provisions on a combined penalty and to lay down a law on the enforcement of a combined penalty. This new form of punishment would apply to repeaters of serious crime, who must be regarded as extremely dangerous to the life, health or freedom of another person. It is noteworthy that the content of the probation period would be defined, inter alia, on the basis of an individual risk assessment by the prisoner. The law would lay down obligations on staying in the dwelling, intoxication at events related to the implementation of the probation period, participation in activities and commitment to supervision. If these obligations were seriously violated, the final control period could be sentenced to absolute imprisonment. This gross infringement would include, inter alia, the repeated arrival of intoxicated alerts to an event related to the control issue, the attempt to block the operation of the technical control instrument or, for example, to stay outside the area authorised by the plan. On the other hand, on the other hand, smaller infringements would be a written warning and very minor infringements would be the subject of an oral remark. Mr President! This government proposal is intended to reduce repeat crime, which is unfortunately often serious crime in those who have been released. The systematic and gradual release of the prisoner will help the person to be reunited in society and thus prevent crime. Mr President! I support this government proposal, which indeed, as has already been mentioned, includes a number of other amendments to a number of laws, the criminal record law, the prison law and so on. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the view that we have people in Finland today, either victims of a violent prisoner or relatives of those who fear the day when the prisoner is released. That is why it is important, as is the intention of this government's proposal, to reduce the number of repeat crimes. When a little has been called for the effectiveness of the punishment, I myself would say that it is, thank God, that we in Finland do not currently have any larger samples of people who have committed serious crimes who could then assess the effectiveness of these penalties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u63	Mr President! This provides for a new form of punishment, a combined sentence combining unconditional imprisonment and the post-conservation period. As has been pointed out in previous speeches, it is a rather small number of people who are affected by this punishment, but it can be said that these are not the girls and boys of yesterday's teas to whom this applies. In other words, this applies to violent and sexual offenders, and this can be condemned to a repeater of a serious crime who is considered to be extremely dangerous to the life, health or freedom of another person. The purpose of the year's probation period is to support the planned and gradual release of the prisoner and at the same time prepare for society. This requires that the prisoner has an apartment and is intoxicated in the activities and participations related to the punishment when he participates in the assigned activity. A certain amount of discussion took place in committee as to whether intoxication should apply to this whole period of supervision, all year long, but I myself am realistic on this issue, and perhaps it is reasonable to insist that there should be intoxication at these control meetings and at other educational, rehabilitation and work events. Well, if these obligations are violated, then they will be sent back to prison. Until now, this target group has generally not been able to be placed in controlled test freedom and the problem has been that they have broadly entered the street without training in a life without crime. I believe that in the future it will be a good thing for this proposal to be supported. But there is also the problem of the diversity of penalties in general — without now joining this proposal in particular. We are beginning to have quite a variety of penalties; it is good that we can keep up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u64	Mr President! The proposal for a combined penalty is a completely new form of punishment. A combined penalty could be imposed on a repeat offender who must be regarded as extremely dangerous to the life, health or freedom of another person. There have been 41 such repeat offenders in a serious crime in the last 10 years. In short, a combined sentence means that a criminal is in prison after a year's stay at home under the supervision of the collar and is involved in a programme including social assistance and possibly work. It has been found that the repeat of the crime usually takes place within a year and is easier for those who are released directly from prison for freedom. Those who gain a controlled freedom with a collar will be easier to integrate into society. Controlled freedom is now available for six months from the application, unless it is stipulated that the whole sentence must be served in prison. Thus, it most often affects first-timers. In this new combined penalty, the time at home with the collar is one year and is mandatory. I consider it essential that the perpetrators of this form of punishment are in an equal position, and it is very important to support the return of the prisoner to normal life and prevent crimes. This does not interfere with the power of judges to impose penalties. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs is thorough and underlines the support for prisoners. Among other things, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights notes that it is essential for the success of the period of supervision of the combined sentence that the necessary rehabilitation and support activities should be organised for the prisoner during the period of imprisonment and that such activities should also be organised during the period of supervision. What's important is that we take care of the release of the prisoner's apartment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u65	Mr President! When this matter was discussed, I was in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Government, and now I am no longer in either, but I am behind this motion. This is good in that sense, given that we have no supervision at all when a person is released from prison, and here comes this new issue. The main responsibilities of supervision here would be to stay in the dwelling at certain times, intoxication at times related to the control period, participation in rehabilitation or other activities, and commitment to technical supervision, for example by means of a footband. A serious breach of supervisory obligations could be condemned to the remaining period of control as an absolute imprisonment. This new legislation seeks to reduce the risk of recurrence of serious crimes, and it is proposed that the gradual release and support provided for it will help the prisoner to settle in society after the sentence period. This is all for a good purpose. The fact that we can monitor and see how things are going is all right. However, I personally feel that our sentences and sentences are so short in general. They should be multiplied. For example, life in prison should be a life sentence. I would like to see the majority of people in this Chamber who, for example, would give convictions for sexual offences that are actually reasonable in relation to that act. I hope that day will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u66	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a combined penalty is very good and well-founded. After all, this law applies to the most severe criminals who have committed serious crimes. For them, this new legislation is creating a new form of punishment, which, of course, rests on the corresponding previous law, so that nothing new can be found in itself, but a new way of punishing these serious criminals and then trying to deal with these people in some way as socially viable. I believe that, in some sense, it will also be successful. As far as criminality is concerned, it is clear that the people who have committed such serious crimes must then try to find entirely new ways of helping these people to put their lives in order, and that is what this combined penal code is really good at. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has referred to the fact that this legislation as such is precise and precise, there is no problem. The main problem with that opinion was that, after this so-called probation period, which follows the period of imprisonment, the actual time spent in prison, if during the period of supervision there is some violation of the rules or even a crime, the period of supervision will, after all, become a direct sentence of imprisonment. Then, to the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was necessary to have precise and precise regulations if, during the period of supervision, a person has been sent back to prison and then behaves properly and is in a position to be released from prison for controlled freedom. It called for precision and punctuality. I'm sure it's come true in this performance. This bill is very good and worthy of support. It is clear that when a person has committed serious crimes and has been in prison for a long time, it is right that society then guides him with a strong hand to freedom and a better life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u67	Mr President! This proposal is very welcome and I myself have raised questions and initiatives in this regard in previous years. When there is talk of serious crimes of violence and sex, there is unfortunately also a great deal of risk of recurrence — especially when a person has a substance abuse problem. I very much appreciate Mr Laukkanen's and Mr Biaudet's thorough attention to this proposal and also the deep respect for the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I would, however, prefer the majority of the committee. My argument is that these exceptional situations are now at stake when the offender is considered to be extremely dangerous to the life, health and freedom of another person. If this were to be changed in such a way that the maximum length of the combined penalty would remain within that penalty scale, it would in practice mean that the length of the probation period would be reduced precisely in these most serious cases within that penalty scale, and I do not consider it appropriate for this controlled own adjustment, if it remains for just a few months and I do not consider it appropriate for the protection of the rest of society either. That is why, on the basis of this information which I have received from this report, I would be in favour of what the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u68	Mr President! I'm kind of struggling with those thoughts of Mr. Räsänen. In our group, we did not have a debate on this final content of the report, nor did we have a debate on the reasons for the objection. I understand these constitutional aspects in this situation, but just like Mr Räsänen, I think in a way of saying the opposite, that is to say that if we go through this protest, we will be sending out the signal that, in the most serious cases, this penalty scale will be reduced. As such, this combined punishment is welcome and a good way to bring a person back to that society, and here these housing, intoxication and job opportunities that have been brought into it are really the key issues that, when you come out of prison into society, are of paramount importance. When these paths can be followed, man has the opportunity to return to society. In this context, I would like to highlight the fact that I have taken the initiative in dealing with budget initiatives in relation to such an association called ViaDia: it is a Christian association with a free church background, which is doing extremely good work in Tampere — and they have offices all over Finland. It is precisely at the point when you get out of prison that you are involved in that life situation, that you offer work opportunities and supported work and that you have the opportunity to live in that apartment, and then this substance abuse and substance abuse rehabilitation is also part of this program. The European Social Fund has also taken into account that they are doing this valuable work, and we just have to hope that in Finland too
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u69	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen said quite well that the aim of the motion is to make the perpetrators of serious crimes once again socially viable. I refer to the risk assessment I mentioned in my previous speech, which would define the content of the monitoring period, and in this prevention of repeat offences it is, first of all, the most essential and it can be difficult at times. Some of the serious crimes are so-called passion crimes, which do not necessarily have such a risk of renewal, but then on the other hand it is said that there are people who are — I use the language of the people — sort of like hopeless cases. How, then, to make them socially viable is certainly very challenging.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u71	Mr President! The aim and purpose of this whole proposal is to be supported by 101%. It is exactly what one can hope for in this situation when one considers how to help these so-called most dangerous prisoners to adapt. The problem is that we do not have a constitutional court, we have a single body to assess when a proposal is so important in relation to the Constitution that it needs to be corrected. Now, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not say directly that it was necessary to correct it, but it made it very clear in three points underlined that this might open the door to something that we, as legislators, may not want to see that situations often arise when the Constitutional Committee makes a statement on a proposal, but then the Special Committee does not take sufficient account of it. That is what Mr Biaudet and I were wondering: a situation is now emerging which could have been remedied in such a way that, even if it were provided for, it would be compulsory for the last year of imprisonment, which has been imposed proportionately in relation to the crime — as is the case with this professional term — that it would then have been done, even if it was 15 years and the last year ago, compulsory home or somewhere, and not always that there is the penalty that has been imposed, plus one year. And this may have been more a question of whether this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u72	Mr President! Thank you for all the good lunches and, in particular, for the good debate and also for the excellent preparation of the members of the committee. Indeed, this report of ours was considered for a long time and a great deal of work was done — thanks, of course, to the committee advisers. After all, there are many kinds of prisoners in prison, and this group, to which this applies, is small, but it is extremely dangerous to other people in society. This is quite a positive thing that now this kind of mandatory surveillance time for them comes after they are released from prison, because if they are kicked from the prison gate to the street, they have no chance of success. Now they may have support — but there are also controls, because this group of people also needs borders and controls. And that would be great if this legislation could prevent, for example, one rape or one aggravated assault or attempted killing. Since this group of persons has been found guilty of a serious crime of this kind again during the year, in that sense this time is acceptable, not to mention the target group. It can be said that we can even save human life in this matter when this legislation comes into force. In my opinion, this government proposal and the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs have one very, very serious deficiency. That lack is that the effects of this will only be visible in the long term, in the next decade. According to the basic principles, we will, of course, follow a lighter law, and when this is a stricter law, then really, when you are sentenced to punishment after this law, the effects will not be seen until next decade. In other words, it is a serious shortcoming, and unfortunately we do not immediately achieve these effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u73	Mr President! Indeed, in this house we do not get involved with the judiciary and we do not go on to say what the penalty for each prisoner should be, but the fact that the law provides and provides for the same length of control, however, as stated here in the explanatory statement, increases the predictability of the system, and it brings the prisoners equally to the same line and also brings clarity to this. In that sense, I understand the committee's arguments as to why it is of just a certain length and why it has been agreed in this way that it will then be there at the end of the sentence. Just as the chairman of the committee pointed out, the biggest problem in this target group is the recurrence of crime and the very fact that people are being freed on the face of nothing and do not have those points of reference. And in these cases, when it comes to ordinary criminals and people to whom this is certainly not the first sentence, we need more clear and, in a certain way, more binding measures to get back into society. In that sense, when you look at this whole picture, that there is indeed a place of residence and intoxication and work situations, these are the most important and the best way to bring people back to society. I would like to reiterate that I hope that the organisations and associations in this house too will find insight and sympathy in order to ease the financial situation of those who are working to help these very people who are released from prison. In other words, if it is where, then the euro will certainly come back, because it will be possible to prevent the recurrence of serious crimes and other crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u74	Mr President! Mr Biaudet gave very good reasons for the content of that objection, but I would be concerned that, in practice, the proposal for an objection would mean that it would in practice be in this group of serious offenders that the period of control would be reduced from one year to a few months. Personally, I see that even a year is quite a short period of time for supervision when considering situations where the risk of renewal is serious and the consequences for the surrounding society can be very serious if the crime is repeated. What is missing in this debate — I tried to study this proposal — is international experience and comparative experiences from other countries. I myself believe that there are considerably longer control periods in some countries. I am sure that the chairman of the committee would be better able to remember these experiences, but I do not consider this year to be an exaggerated period, and that is why I think it is important for all those who have been convicted to actually have a control period of that year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u75	Madam President! As a result of the introduction of the combined penal code, attention must be paid to the role of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in that the Constitutional Committee itself does not interfere with this content of the law. It only evaluates that law in the sense that it has any conflict with fundamental human rights and related matters. In this regard, attention was drawn to the issue of the controlled period of freedom, which is that when a person’s freedom is restricted — of course, after being released from prison, when he is in a controlled freedom — the definitions contained therein are precise and precise. The Constitutional Committee itself is not going to champion the articles, but merely to examine from the point of view of fundamental rights whether the law is in conformity with the Constitution. Now that this law specifically applies to these people who commit the most serious crimes, it is always worth remembering that society always has the right to be protected by strong legislation on account of those who commit serious crimes. Such controlled freedom is a very good thing, because that is where a person who has already suffered part of the sentence and has been given controlled freedom is such guidance; the happiest situation would be when, for example, the person in question got to work and got to the sidelines of life, made a living and gradually started to create a social safety net for himself, that would be the best possible situation. But, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not go into detail to assess matters, but only to assess whether it implements human rights treaties and fundamental rights for freedom. After all, the Constitution guarantees § 7 the fact that each person has a right to freedom and the That freedom can, of course, be restricted if it is considered to be proportionate to the loss that is taking place here, and precisely when it is committed, then the offender will certainly take a risk in terms of his freedom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u76	Mr President! I would also like to take on board Mrs Essayah's reference to how we can support prisoners who have already been found to be dangerous in society with the help of various organisations and others. It reminded me of Captain Salo of the Police School, who's incarcerated that drugs can get rid of two roads, and there's a cross at the end of both: death or belief. After all, the church is already doing very valuable work with marginalised families and so on. Here, too, with the released prisoners, surely the church would have much to offer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u77	Mr President! Mr Räsänen asked a good question. Now I have to say that I do not remember whether this government proposal or something else has compared these different conditions, mainly in Europe, with prison conditions, but so on, for example, Norway, which is considered to be a model country for prison care in Europe. Of course, there are a great many different control mechanisms and rehabilitation mechanisms, and I believe they are included in the sentence. But there is the difference that when the punishments are there very much longer, talk about 20 years and so on, then they are somewhat different systems. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not take any further positions on this in this report as to how this should be developed in this respect. But the position was taken, as Mr Ojala-Niemelä has already said here, that the system of criminal sanctions is very complex and confusing, and quite honestly I recognise and also Vice-Judge Ojala-Niemela acknowledged that we are not following all the consequences there is, that is to say, that it needs to be developed. For example, there is such a good form of punishment as juvenile punishment, but unfortunately, whether it was last year or the other year when it was discussed in committee, it was found that it has been demanded by prosecutors, in Finland only five times a year — only five times a year. It is a good system, but it has not gone through itself, and it was now a matter of training and information. Then it's very hard for the prosecutors, so maybe that's not why they asked for it. But I would like to conclude by saying that this system of sanctions needs much bigger renovation, and I am sure that for those who will then be in the forthcoming government negotiations, a good tip is that you should bring it up there, that is development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u78	Mr President! I would particularly like to say 'President' now, but I will not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u81	Madam President! In fact, I said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not going to go into detail but simply to say whether it is constitutional or not. The wise substance committee, which this time is the Legal Committee, and its excellent chairman, Mr Tolvane, as a top professional expert in this country, will certainly know how to put these articles into their final form, with the favourable guidance of the committee advisers. Here's the solution. The Constitutional Committee is not going to change the paragraphs, it is the substance committee. To put it that solemnly, you could say as you say in Sinuhe: "This has been the case, and this will always be the case."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u82	Mr President! Thank you, Hoskose, for your beautiful words. That there is no misunderstanding, so the Legal Affairs Committee certainly did not wipe the table lightly with this statement from the Constitutional Committee, we will think carefully about it and we will appreciate it from Vice-President Biaudet and the representative. Mr Laukkanen's views on this matter were carefully considered. However, the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs then felt that there was such great interest in protecting bystanders and, of course, there is a need for the possibility of obtaining the most difficult cases of prisons, prisoners who sit, so to speak, day after day, with the support and control of what Mr Essayah has here made very worthy. And that's why the name of this one, though bad, must be a supervisory penalty. I would also like to say that there was careful consideration here, and that is the end result.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u83	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 16/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u84	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal No. 92 is only a change in the date of the start of the delegation's term of office and then also a possibility of using these contractual guarantees. This is the legislation of the Municipal Guarantee Centre, and the Municipal Guarantee Centre is a significant and special type of municipal economic operator. Other legislation in progress relating to the Municipal Guarantee Centre must indeed be prepared in such a way that the legislation will safeguard the functioning and risk classification of this Municipal Guarantee Centre in the future. The Administrative Committee has nothing else to do with this, and the report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u85	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 17/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u86	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on strong electronic identification and trust services by setting a maximum price for the chaining of initial recognition data for a five-year period. The aim of the proposal is to promote not only the creation of a growth environment for digital business but also the development of an electronic identification market. Unreasonably high prices for the transmission of initial identification data have made it difficult to use existing identification tools to acquire new identification tools. According to this proposal, a provider of a means of identification may collect fair and fair compensation for sending information on the initial recognition it has made to the provider of another means of identification for the purpose of granting a new means of identification. The price is based on the median price, and FICORA would decide on the maximum level of this price. According to the proposal, the maximum price should be reduced by 25 % per year, with a minimum of 35 cents and a maximum of EUR 5. In the committee hearings, the need for maximum price regulation was called into question in part. Some operators considered the price level to be too high and some too low. However, the maximum price is a compromise which is expected to contribute to the development of the market at this stage. We very much regretted in committee that, although the regulation of the trust network already entered into force on 1 May 2017, the problems related to the pricing of first recognition still seem to be very topical. It is also known that, for various reasons today, not everyone has access to an electronic means of identification, and it must be possible to find solutions to this, even in the name of equality among citizens. The lack of identification tools also tends to displace people from society’s sled. As banks currently have a quasi-monopoly position in the market for identification instruments, it is essential that banks are more actively involved in this work than they have been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u87	Madam President! This bill is an important step towards electronic identification and the development of electronic services. After all, in practice, banks have had some kind of monopoly on this electronic identification, and it is therefore important to promote healthy competition for the provision of eID services. In this context, it must be noted that in our neighbouring country, Estonia, electronic services have developed very quickly, largely because this electronic identification was made practically compulsory for all citizens through this electronic identity card, the compulsory identity card, and it was very quickly able to promote the use of these electronic services. In practice, we certainly do not have a return to this system, but I believe that this bill for its part is developing this system in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u88	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 18/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u89	Madam President! This government proposal is very welcome, the aim of the proposal is to improve Finland's competitiveness. The fairway fee has been halved from 2015 to 2017 due to the 2014 Spring Framework Decision to compensate for the costs of limiting the sulphur content of fuel and supported the 2013 labour market solution. The freight rail tax has been abolished for the same reason for the same years 2015-2017. The aim has thus been to reduce the cost burden on industry, especially industry. The Government’s strategic programme states that the competitiveness of industry will be safeguarded by extending the duration of reduced bus charges and the abolition of the rail tax on freight for the remainder of 2018. It is therefore now a matter of an extension of the year. The economic impact on the State in terms of the reduction of the fairway charge and the continuation of the depreciation of the freight rail tax totals approximately EUR 55 million in 2018. The reduced fairway charge will result in cost savings of approximately EUR 40 million for shipping and thus for business compared to the situation where the fairway charge would be fully charged. The industry and the transport sector are under pressure to continue beyond halves and removals, at least until 2019. That is why, in the text of the committee's report, we felt it was very important that the proposed measures could be extended beyond 2018. Similarly, as a committee, we felt that the various environmental aspects should in future be regarded as criteria for reduced payments or tax reductions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u90	Madam President! Indeed, as Mr Taimela rightly said, there is compensation for the sulphur directive on fairway charges, which in time was perhaps even expected to impose a greater cost burden on Finnish industry than what has happened in the final games. But it must be said that it is very good for both the railways and the fairway charges that this is a way of supporting Finnish industry and business. And as we always say, Finland is like an island when we go to see how goods can be transported from here to elsewhere, to the world. Now that the debate has taken place here this autumn and it has then been decided to set up a parliamentary working party to clean up subsidies for companies, it must be said that there is no reason to do this. In other words, these are the kind of support for which there will certainly be clear support throughout this Chamber, and these should also be continued over the next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u91	Madam President! This proposal must be supported from the perspective of Finnish business and entrepreneurs. This is indeed a positive factor for the entire national economy. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, on the one hand, from the point of view of entrepreneurs and the industry, these decisions are to be made on a fixed-term basis and rather short-term — even now just a year is to be continued — brings their own challenges, because in the long term, for example, it would be good to have certainty about the costs that are coming to fruition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u92	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u93	Mr President! Over time, many people in this Chamber must have dreamed of being presidents, and there are many candidates in today's representatives in the process of campaigning for elections. I myself was reminded of my forgotten dream in the summer when a childhood friend asked me if I remembered that I was writing "What I'm going to become when I grow up" in his book of friends in the 1980s, that I was going to be Finland's first female president. Well, thanks to the radical reform that took place in Finland in 1906, the dream of being president has been possible for little girls for 111 years, in most of Europe in fact less time. In Athens, the cradle of democracy, only wealthy free men born in Athens could dream of running for election. So, what about today in Finland? "Why does Finland have such a rule, the President? Really? Can you change that?" So asked my seven-year-old goddaughter. Sofia and her twin brother Jaakko are first-graders from Helsinki. They were born in Colombia, became Finnish citizens as babies. How would you answer Sofia? What's the rule that he couldn't be president? That is what this bill is about, Mr President. According to the Finnish Constitution, only native Finnish citizens can be elected President of the Republic. A similar requirement does not apply, for example, to the Prime Minister, other ministers or to the President of Parliament. Above all, the Finnish legal system does not distinguish between natives or those who later acquired Finnish citizenship except in the case of the President. For ministers, the birth requirement was abolished for the last millennium. In addition, the majority of EU countries are not demanding the birthplace of the presidential elections; citizenship is sufficient. According to our report with the Parliamentary Information Service, births are currently required in Lithuania, Portugal and Estonia. Mr President! I have received three types of critical feedback on this bill. People have asked if Parliament has nothing better to do. Some colleagues have suggested that there is no justification for trying to change the Constitution by means of a legislative initiative. Third, there is concern about what the world is like, where the President can be anyone. I am very happy to answer these questions. So is it big or small? When I started preparing the bill at hand, I thought it would be a proper correction of the obsolete law. It has become clear during the preparatory work that this is not only a matter of principle but also a very symbolic issue. The last few days and the shared nation’s baby cheer have at the latest illustrated how hard the Finns attach themselves to the President. The position is the most symbolic in the country, even though there is less power today than the Prime Minister, for example. That is why it is important that in Finland in the 2020s, all Finnish citizens can run for president. Well, then, this constitutional perspective. We 200 Members of Parliament are responsible for ensuring that society is as fair as possible. In practice, it means to myself that if you encounter something that I think is wrong, I will use the possibilities of my station power to correct it. The citizens have held us responsible and have also authorized us to exercise this power. There is a need for rapid access to the amendment of the Constitution. We need to get this dossier in preparation so that this Parliament will be able to deal with it and the next Parliament will then finalise it so that it can enter into force for the likely presidential elections in 2024, in a democracy when, in addition to being elected, it is very important who has the right to stand. That is why this initiative is taking place. The third criticism has been the hardest. I have received both factual and highly inappropriate messages explaining why the President of Finland must be born here in an ox. Similarly, in 1906 many felt that women did not belong to the Parliament. I understand the feeling that there's an idea of who the president is supposed to be. However, I believe that that feeling will change over time, just as society has changed so far. And what is more important than emotion, Mr President, is that legislation must be such that it does not discriminate. Equality and opportunities belong to everyone. Expert information will also be available on this subject when the committee's deliberations begin. Professor of World Politics Teivo Teivainen discusses the subject in his recent book World Political National Walking, and Professor of Law Tuomas Ojanen has raised the subject to debate on several occasions. The OSCE has also criticised Finland for this point of law and considered it discriminatory. Mr President! Today is World Girls' Day, Girls Takeover. For example, 14-year-old Priya Härkönen is the head of the social delivery of YLE news. According to current legislation, he can never run for President of Finland, just like my daughter Sofia. I think it is wrong, that is why the law needs to be changed and it is in our hands and it is our responsibility. I hope that the committee will be successful in preparing the matter for further action, so that it will then arrive in this Chamber to be decided in due course. Happy girls' day, everybody! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u94	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is beautiful in Finland that anyone can become anything. Our children can dream of different professions and progress in society. We have a relatively equal society where, for example, social growth is possible. A person from a low income family may dream of getting better incomes, for example. He can dream of different professions. But there are also structures in Finland that put people in a position of inequality, and this requirement of the President's birth is one of them. In Finland, as pointed out in that speech, a person born as a Finnish citizen can run for president, meaning that it is not possible for all Finns to run for president and become president. You may think that whatever it is, this is a minor flaw — but no. Equality matters enormously. It's a huge thing. There's a lot of meaning to the symbol. We have previously corrected these points in our law, which have not treated all Finns equally. In the past, the minister was supposed to be a native Finnish, and we have found that this is a problematic point, and we have changed it. For example, a person such as myself, who moved to Finland as a teenager, may one day dream of a minister's place and perhaps of a prime minister's place, perhaps, if the people so desire. And I want, for example, that a little girl who moved to Finland at the age of two can dream of a president's place or that a little boy adopted in Finland at the age of five or, like Ben Zyskowicz, a person born in Finland as a citizen of another country may dream of a president's place. These are quite relevant questions. You don't just get to be president. It's up to the people. If a person has built such trust in Finnish society that he is wanted for office as president, this should be possible, and the fact that a person has been born somewhere else in the world before moving to Finland should not limit this possibility. But it's up to the people. We also have parties here that use the slogan 'people decide' — well, let the people decide. If a person has built up such trust, I can see that this puts a clear limit on who can enter these posts. It is about equality and equality, what kind of signal the current legislation sends. Even those born elsewhere or born in Finland as a foreign citizen can act as President of Finland and represent Finland equally well. This should be the message of our law, and at the moment it is not. For example, I would be proud to be a person with an immigrant background who came to Finland at the age of 14, for example, as the President of Finland, if that were the case. I would give everything I have for this country, and now this opportunity is forbidden to me. I am talking about myself here simply because I want to illustrate these things to you. That when we talk about immigration or equality in general, I feel that we are talking about masses, but perhaps a living example can give a better direction to what is the present state. If this or the future parliament is unable to change the law, perhaps instead of me my children, who will be native Finns, may one day dream of being completely equal in this kind of reflection. Thank you very much to Mr Pilvi Torst for his bill. While waiting for a more equal Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u95	Mr President! After all, the German prince was about to be elected to Finland. The plan failed, and then they wanted to guarantee important governmental tasks to native Finns. The birth requirement seems to be linked to the nation state concept and the safeguarding of its independence, for example, for sleepers agents. The Finnish state, an independent state, is only 100 years old, and the Finnish people... There is such a thing as "overgenerational us". My grandparents, for example, defended Finland's independence, and it raises the obligation to this country: what kind of Finland has given us and what kind of Finland we leave behind. In the United States, Estonia and Lithuania there is this same requirement of origin, and I do not feel that it is unfair or unequal. If I were to move to these countries, I would respect the decisions of that state: what tradition that state holds on to, and on what basis can you apply for any post there. I do not think this is a relic, it is a tradition, and it has a strong symbolic value. It is therefore a good idea to discuss whether the President should be given more powers. I think we should.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u96	Mr President! My name is not here among the signatories to the bill. Mr Pilvi Torsti and Mr Ozan Yanar, here too, did well to justify this initiative. However, I think that the amendment of the Constitution in this regard, in view of the presidency, will certainly be quite the work to be done if we want to move in this direction. The question I have to ask myself is the author of this initiative's view of dual citizenship in the presidential office. I personally believe that it is important that in certain posts which are central to security, i.e. central to national security, and especially in the office of President, the person is merely a Finnish citizen, so that there is no potential conflict of interest between the various nationalities. I would be happy to hear Mr Pilvi Torst's view of the presidency: do you think that a double citizen could be a possible president?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u97	Madam President! I would have told Congressman Huhtasaari that tradition is a bad argument. But when he probably knew he had bad arguments, he left. With regard to the argument that those who come from other countries should respect unequal status, I do not now agree. Yes, people can strive for equality. I think it is good to be aware that this was also removed from the ministers. I am now a living example in front of you, that perhaps one day I too will be able to dream of being a minister, and I would do everything in that position. My loyalty or something else — I don’t think anyone in this Chamber would doubt it. To this dual nationality point, as far as I know, a dual citizen can also be the President of Finland if he is native Finnish. So it is assumed that if you are a person born native to Finland, even if in Helsinki, which has one parent from somewhere else, you can also get another citizenship, then you can become president. But people who have become Finnish after that cannot, and it is not enough to be born in Finland. For example, the situation for persons such as Ben Zyskowicz is that even if a person is born in Finland as a citizen of another country, he is not born in Finland or is classified as such and is not entitled to stand. — Mr Zyskowicz is not present. It would have been good to have his opinion on this interesting matter too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u98	Mr President! I'll take three things. First briefly to Mr Huhtasaari: It is very serious to talk about tradition when we talk about thousands of children coming to Finland through international adoption, for example. They have their traditions, they're Finns. These are speeches that really seem cut up to these children and their parents and loved ones. I may not have understood it myself when I was doing this bill, but the contacts I have received, and indeed the feedback from my own ghost girl has made this very clear. Indeed, in this Chamber, we also bear responsibility for our speeches. Thank you, Mr Räsänen, for the question, and I say to Mr Räsänen on this constitutional issue: It is clear that this is behind the work, and I myself was thinking about whether this is the right way to promote it, but, as I have already said, things must be changed by the means we have been given. But it is a matter of principle, and it is now up to the Constitutional Committee to take this issue, which is clearly this kind of equality issue, and to consult experts and take it forward, so that it can be dealt with with by the two parliaments and actually entered into force in the 2020s. In a way, sometimes you have to start, think that the moment is right here in this room. As far as this dual citizenship is concerned, yes, this has come up. Perhaps it is also the case that the birth requirement and dual citizenship sometimes become mixed up in people's ideas, as Mr Yanar pointed out, with the dual nationality requirement here, the legislation is different today. For example, such ideas have come from Professor Teivo Teivainen, who has indeed dealt with the subject in his book, that we can, for example, demand from a person elected as a double citizen that he should give up the citizenship of another country in that situation. This is quite possible and it might be worth considering — as we also call for the party book to be abandoned. That’s kind of a similar situation that wants this kind of person to be in that way formally neutral. Professor Teivainen also put forward this kind of perhaps interesting view that could one think that the citizenship requirement is 18 years of continued citizenship. These are things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u99	Mr President! I would also like to say that I believe that this draft law can indeed be well thought out and I do not wish to be directly opposed to it. I believe that if we had this kind of legislation, we would hardly be opposed to it now, that is to say, we would have been quite used to that system, even if we were very likely to have such legislation, but we would still be elected Presidents who are native Finnish citizens. It might be more likely, but then it would be. But as far as this dual citizenship is concerned, a project was launched during the last parliamentary term, including by the Ministry of the Interior, to identify conflicts of interest in key security-related high-level missions, which could result from dual citizenship. Personally, I believe that we need legislation that restricts the possibility for dual citizens to apply for these posts in certain posts and, indeed, it would be possible for us to give up that second nationality when applying for such a post.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u100	Mr President! Perhaps to underline this difference between dual citizenship and the requirement for birth, I actually took the floor on this point raised by Mr Räsänen in the previous period. I am also somewhat familiar with this issue myself. In particular, when this is a referral debate, I hope that we will not be mixing birth requirements and dual citizenship, because they are two very different things, as is the case with the representative. Räsänen also very well pointed out, and we would address this requirement of origin in this particular sense of equality and equality, in a symbolic sense, which is undoubtedly so that all our citizens who came here through international adoption and for other reasons, living in Finnish society can dream of a president's role, whether it is likely or not — that is not necessarily the question here, but what we really think about is that everyone is equal from the point of view of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u101	Madam President! I agree with this mixing of dual citizenship with this, because, as I have just said, a person who is a double citizen can now become President of Finland if the people so wish and so on. That this is a completely different conversation. I would like to end by saying that you cannot just become president. As has just been said, it is quite a job, building trust. We have to get over 50% of the votes. The Finnish people must be behind you, which means that it is quite a job. I think it is wrong that if the Finnish people want to vote for a person who has built this trust, they would be deprived of this right because this person has happened to come to Finland at the age of two or was born in Finland with a false passport — it just does not fit in my head. I believe that the Constitutional Committee should have a good debate on this issue, and I hope that a change in modern society will take place, but if not this period, then perhaps sometimes. In the meantime. Perhaps in this debate of dual citizenship and even in this debate, this is not a matter of loyalty. Yes, a person with an immigrant background is also completely loyal to Finland. That too must be borne in mind in these discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u102	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u103	Madam President! This bill to maintain child reduction is part of the Christian Democrats' alternative budget, which will then be discussed later in the form of budget initiatives, and some of these legislative initiatives have already been presented here in the Chamber. In other words, this is a child-reduction tax made by the Christian Democrats during the last term of the government, which compensates for the child-retirement allowance for families with small and medium incomes. Now, in presenting this budget, this government, led by the Finance Minister Petteri Orpo, stated that the taxation of any group of citizens is not being tightened up, and that is not true, as has been shown later in the debate here in the Chamber, because it is precisely this abolition of the child allowance until the end of this year — if the government does not continue to do so as it has not proposed to continue — that it is the families with children that will be the only group of people whose taxation will increase and, in particular, for those with low and medium incomes. Of course, here the government presented the forms of support for families with children, such as a single parent's child supplement of EUR 5 per child, but given that this compensation, which comes in the form of a child allowance, is capable of being a single parent with four minors, with a maximum of EUR 400 per year, and this increase, in turn, is EUR 240, and a single parent with four children loses EUR 160. And, of course, the reduction in child care fees is welcomed with joy, but it must be noted that not all families receiving this child-retirement allowance have children of day-care age, which means that these compensations do not necessarily hit the same families. So in the case of one family, these government activities may become compensation and in the case of others only, only surgery. The Christian Democrats have, of course, justified this not only by showing it in the family purse, but also as an incentive to accept the work. In other words, this effective tax rate, which is crucial at the point when considering whether it is worthwhile to accept work, is rising very quickly with small earnings. And in view of these day - care fees, these together make it worthwhile to weigh many times in the family as to whether it makes sense to return to work there. And as these subsidies decrease, day care fees increase and working costs increase, this is usually done there with very small earnings, and in that sense this may also be a so-called incentive trap. The Christian Democrats have also presented their own basic security system, which would then also be the kind of system in which every euro that a person deserves, after reductions in support and increased taxation, would always leave more in hand. This will, of course, be the solution that would help in this type of situation in the future. The Incomes Register, which is being planned for Finland, in a way creates the basis for the introduction of such systems, social security systems. This is a model for the future that we will be happy to present, and we hope that it will also be taken into account when this debate on social security reform takes place. But we need this child relief system, at the very least, until the financial situation of families does not deteriorate and, on the other hand, this incentive problem does not arise. Perhaps even so, this provision, which has been presented here in the section, does indeed take account of this increase in household income, and then this will be reduced as income increases. In other words, this is a reduction in low and medium incomes, and when this is a tax reduction, then, of course, in a situation where taxes are low or zero due to low incomes, no deduction can be made. So, in a way, this works with the same logic as, say, a household allowance. Mr President! I hope that, in the Committee on Budgets, this reduction in children will be taken seriously and understood that this is, indeed, the way in which the government's promise to ensure that the taxation of any group of people will not increase. If this is not accepted, then the government's message is that families with children, especially families with children with low and medium incomes, are those who are being fiscally penalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u104	Madam President! I am very much in favour of this bill, which is indeed part of the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats. This child-reduction system has been very important to us because we were creating it when we were in the government, and it was created to compensate for the unfortunate surgery on child supplements. However, from the point of view of families with children, I very much regret that this compensation is now being abolished without taking this into account in child supplements. There has been concern in this Chamber that the birth rate has fallen to the level of years of hunger. In my opinion, this tightening of the taxation of families with children, the abolition of child deduction, is a rather bad signal for families at a time like this. On the contrary, we would need positive messages so that families can dare to have children as much as they dream. We know from the studies that families would like more children than they can produce in practice. Indeed, the problem for us in Finland is that families with children are severely taxed compared to many European countries because we do not have effective family taxation systems. That is why I think it is a great pity that the government is now abolishing this system of child-reduction, because this would be a good first step for us to be in the process of developing a family-friendly tax system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-11-ps-102.u105	Madam President! I do not want to prolong the debate, but when Mr Räsänen mentioned the family taxation system, the Christian Democrats have been in Finland in previous parliamentary periods thinking about it and presented such a reduction in earnings, a reduction in children's income, on the basis of which this model, which was largely implemented last season, has been developed. I remember when, during the period 2003-2007, when I was the chairman of the parliamentary group myself, we brought little of this, could you say, to this great hall for the first time, because we found that we lack a fiscal element in Finland that could support families with children. In that sense it was, as it were, the first opening in this direction. It has to be said that this model, which has been implemented in the last period, is a good one, given that the progressive approach must also be taken into account in such a way that it is targeted specifically at families with children with low and medium incomes. In that sense, the continuation of this would be extremely welcome. These so-called 'classical family tax models', which, for example, divide the income of one income earner between two, have the problems of treating different forms of family unequally. In that sense I would say that I personally consider such deductions to be better targeted, especially when they can also take account of income scales and just click them and incentive effects are better in these. I would therefore like to see Finland continue to discuss these forms of fiscal support, because there is a shortage of different family tax models in Europe and some of them are successful, some of them less successful, but we in Finland, in fact, through taxation, did not want to take any position on this issue. In that sense, too, this model is commendable.
