ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u1	The second point of the order of business is oral Question Time, so I would ask the ministers present to take their place in the ministerial box. Then I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u2	Congressman Kantola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u3	Mr President! It's time to find out who did this, and it's time to work together. It's time for us to work together. The indoor air problems of public spaces, such as schools, are once again on display in the media. In Kiiming, children’s parents and schoolchildren are on strike because of indoor air problems. There's a similar situation in Akaa. In Siuntio it has been revealed that all the schools in the municipality suffer from mold. Children’s parents and staff are fiercely fighting for healthy indoor air. The concern for children's health is enormous. Mr President! We in this Parliament cannot simply stand by and watch or roll responsibility on the shoulders of the municipalities; responsibility for the health and well-being of the citizens rests with the state. We need to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u4	Mr President! This is the government Question Time, and this proposal now concerns the parties. But if a government is needed to convene parties, then the government can call the parties together on any matter, for example this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u6	Mr President! I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. That gave us hope. Overall, the cost of health damage caused by mold damage in public buildings is estimated at EUR 450 million per year. The costs of home and moisture problems must be considered as a whole from the point of view of both local government finances and central government finances. At the end of January this year, the construction industry presented its own solution to the problems of moisture and mould in public spaces. All over the country, we have good practices in Homestalks. These good experiences should now be shared. For example: In Kuhmo, all parties have joined forces, and there is a new wooden school rising rapidly. If This is what we can do, so why can't we work together with the parties here when the government calls us together, the opposition parties, to cooperate with the government? Prime Minister, are you prepared, on behalf of your government, to convene opposition parties to discuss the launch of such a project?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u8	Mr President! I do now feel that I have already answered this question positively. So I will say yes again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u9	Mr President! Indeed, the news of the last few days has been shocking, and in particular the fact that these problems concern schools of mass size where children and young people are exposed to mold and also the teachers, the staff. There are schools with hundreds of people dealing with these problems and people have had to withdraw completely from working life because of this mold problem. The Parliamentary Audit Committee has done a great deal of work here, and last season, under the leadership of Mr Tuija Brax, as an obligation for the government to have a larger programme of measures. It involved, among other things, these hydrants, the renewal of building regulations, and also the renewal of health care in these mold cases, because many have suffered from failure to get treatment and are not taken seriously by doctors with these occupational mold problems. I would like to ask the Minister for Housing: are there any construction-related decisions planned to increase the responsibility of the builders in order to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u10	Mr President! This issue of the quality of construction is the most topical and, just as the questioner said, it must be of serious concern to us all, because it affects young people, children and workers there in public spaces, such as schools. The Government is under the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment to renew the building regulations. For example, this renewal of building regulations is intended to ensure that the wood construction, which Mr Kantola raised, is brought to the same line as other materials. Regardless of the material, much depends on the quality of the construction. We do have the good practices, for example in the Oulu region, such as Drychain 10, where, as it were, in protected areas things are done, the end result is certain. This type of operating model should be introduced, and the Ministry of the Environment also prepares, renews and sends guidelines to municipalities to ensure the quality of construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u11	Mr President! Unfortunately, at the moment, our children are really going to have to go to schools with mold, and I would really like children in schools, in primary schools, to be those who live to be almost 100 years old like Finland, preferably even over a year or two. It is quite possible, but it is not possible if children get ill prematurely. This mold problem is such a big problem, it may be pushed away a little so that we know that it will cost a lot if we really start to renovate it. But I can assure you that it will cost even more when the teachers get sick and the children get sick. I would now like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you are prepared to raise this issue in the board of directors and to move it forward in such a way that no child would have to go to mold school every single morning and then come out from the fourth grade at the latest, as an asthma child, so that children could be in a place where they do not get sick.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u12	Mr President! I am very pleased that we have the opportunity here in Parliament to discuss this difficult issue. It is estimated that as many as 60000 to 90000 comprehensive school pupils and their teachers are exposed every day to home and indoor problems in schools. This is an absolutely intolerable situation, and it must be a strict and unconditional policy, which means that municipalities as providers of education have a responsibility to ensure that learning environments are healthy and safe. The law says that every child and student has the right to a safe and healthy learning environment, and of course it also applies to their teachers and other school staff. So here we need a comprehensive whole, covering the whole of Finland, in which the municipalities bear this responsibility. During the previous government term, the funding of school establishment projects was transferred from the state to the central government shares of municipalities in order to enable municipalities to cope with this task. It is now important that this responsibility is actually borne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u13	Mr President! I would like to add that the owner is responsible for the premises. That is why, knowing that the problems of mould and moisture have been in the past for decades — they were not really believed in earlier times, but it has long been the case that everyone knows that this is true — if the municipality, whether it is a school building or another building, finds that there is a problem of moisture and mould, then immediately and openly need to address it and look for substitutes for healthy facilities, so that people’s health is not further compromised. But, as I say, the owner is in charge of the premises, and then the first responsibility will always lie with the municipality if it is a municipal building.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u14	Mr President! I want to ask you a question, Prime Minister. From the point of view of your reply to Mr Kantola's question. It is not, therefore, a question of us wishing to have some joint coffee between parties on this issue, but of us wanting parliamentary cooperation, seeking the right solutions to this serious big problem. According to a study carried out by the Parliamentary Audit Committee, the cost of home and moisture damage alone is about half a billion euros, i.e. half a billion euros, in society every year. Costs arise from research and treatment of symptoms and diseases, absenteeism, loss of working capacity and lower working efficiency and productivity. So it is a major problem, a big one, a big one for human health, but also for the national economy. That is why we want parliamentary cooperation to solve this problem. Will you take it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u15	Mr President! This is a major problem, we are talking about a problem of 10 billion, tens of billions, and it has brought difficulties to many people's everyday lives because indoor air problems cause a wide range of diseases. Municipalities have taken this exactly as they should, many municipalities have made bold decisions. In addition to Kuhmo, Pudasjärvi also has a great new wooden school, and when I go there, the indoor air was in really good condition. We have a very wide-ranging problem of quality in public construction, and I have set up a working group, a one-man task force. Erkki At the end of next month, Liikanen will submit his report, which will focus specifically on public construction... — — — — Now I'm saying the wrong thing. Virtanen, of course, Erkki Virtanen. With Mr. Liikanen, I'll be in a meeting next week on other matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u16	Värderade Talman! We recently decided on a nearly zero energy package which became quite good, largely because the Ministry of the Environment listened to the feedback received. The planned blackmails, which would have made things like the log school in Pudasjärvi impossible, were cancelled — fortunately. Energy saving in buildings is important, but the focus on theoretical minimisation of energy consumption leads to risk building according to studies conducted by the University of Tampere. So we have to get out of it. In order to genuinely favour wood construction, we should be able to assess the carbon footprint of the entire life cycle of the building. For example, it would contribute to the construction of solid wood, which is a sure, healthy way of carrying out, for example, a school or a day-care centre. Minister! At what point can we replace the whole life cycle of the E-century building measuring theoretical energy consumption by a carbon footprint figure?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u17	Mr President! The representative asked a good and succinct question and, of course, thank you for thanking us for the fact that this almost zero-energy construction and that legislation really took account of the fact that, for example, it will be possible to continue to build massive logs. This broader life cycle review rather than just energy efficiency or energy consumption: I've started that job at the Ministry of the Environment. It will not be a very quick and easy job, but I estimate that in about four to five years' time we could have the theoretical information available to use this carbon footprint during the life cycle rather than just calculated energy efficiency. Work is under way and it is a necessary reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u18	Madam President! When problems have arisen in schools or public buildings, we often start — and quite rightly so — by conducting studies on indoor air quality. When these studies are in use, situations have arisen in some municipalities that the public and the parents of the students do not have access to them. However, when the municipal law and the law of publicity start from the need to act pro-publicity, have municipalities in this regard been instructed to act openly and pro-publicity? Perhaps the Minister. A Vehviläinen can answer this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u19	Mr President! It was in my previous reply that I said that we must immediately be open when we have these problems. The same applies, of course, to the information that must be given to the children's parents or staff, regardless of the school or any building, the briefing that such things have been observed. Similarly, I think it is quite obvious that the results of the studies should also be reported. On the road to transparency — under no circumstances should this information be kept secret.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u20	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, these moldy buildings are indeed a huge problem. During the last term, the Audit Committee addressed this problem and made a number of recommendations as to how we should be able to avoid this in the future. The Audit Committee also proposed quite massive support for municipalities — for a long period of time, for many years, extra money that could be applied for from the State — so that the municipalities will be able to repair these buildings in the future, but unfortunately this money has been reduced. But not only the municipalities, but also the state, have a lot of buildings: we have garrisons that suffer from mold problems, we have police, courts, state agencies. How will the State itself take care of these buildings and their condition?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u21	Mr President! In exactly the same way: the owner has responsibility for it. And if it is observed that there are such moisture or mold problems in a state-owned building, then the same must be done, and we know, of course, over the years, even two to thirty years, that very quickly a number of healthy facilities have been found. It is always the first step to get those healthy spaces, alternative facilities, and then go to repair and renovation, possibly even new construction. That it's perfectly normal procedures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u22	Mr President! The Social Democrats had an alternative budget of EUR 100 million for home schools, day care centres and other public buildings. Of course, this is the primary purpose of providing healthy facilities. The second point is that at the same time we will also have jobs in different regions. Mr Housing Minister, when we were discussing this same subject in the autumn and when you presented a proposal to abolish health-disadvantage payments, which have now taken place since the beginning of this year, you said here that the government has these health-disadvantages. The committee unanimously stated that such a form of assistance is needed for families who are in a very difficult situation in these home problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u23	Mr President! Indeed, renovation grants can still be granted to individuals. But as far as these schools and public buildings are concerned, it is quite true that it is the responsibility of the municipalities, which own that building, to make sure that they are healthy enough to study and work there. And when it comes to state aid, people’s health does not expect whether or not the government will receive the support of a penny. There is no point in waiting for the government to give a small slice to fix the mold school. The municipality must start working on its own and immediately. This is what we do, for example, in my former municipality of residence in Ruokolahti: a new school is in preparation. For example, in Helsinki, about 50 schools have indoor air problems, and they are still waiting for the renovation. Municipalities must tackle this problem themselves and not wait for it to become a small subsidy from the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u24	Next question, Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u25	Madam President! The Human Rights Organization Amnesty published its annual report yesterday. It criticised the government for undermining the human rights of asylum seekers. As we remember, the government took away the opportunity of family reunification from many already protected here by setting high income limits last summer. So the government closed the doors to women and children in need. In addition, the government limited legal aid for asylum seekers and reduced the time for appeals, thereby increasing the risk of human rights violations for those returned. And this human rights-depleting development has a human price. It is now visible in the centre of Helsinki, where asylum seekers have spent two weeks in the cold. Minister of the Interior: what concrete steps will the government take to remedy the human rights problems identified in the Amnesty report?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u26	Madam President! Yes, these assessments are very serious. We have to take into account that we have, of course, corrected and we are always looking at this type of feedback. However, all the laws which have been brought here and which you mentioned have also been tested in the Constitutional Committee, and they have also been passed there, and the law is being applied. We are not different from other countries. We have rules very similar to those in other similar countries. If there is such a complaint, of course it will be taken seriously. I would also like to correct your misconception that those income limits have been raised. These income limits have already been in place, and then last spring there was no increase in the income limits, only an increase in the number of families to be covered. And as far as this situation is concerned, these people who are currently in that station square, according to the information I have received — when I visited them — are those who have received a negative decision and have now complained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u27	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u28	Mr President! In his report, Amnesty highlights as one of the longer-term human rights problems in Finland the need to change the translation. It is shocking that Finland legally drives men and women to sterilisation in 2017. This is a shameful stain on Finland's reputation and a dark piece of our history in a few decades' time. Minister Ruhula, you have been adamantly telling the public that you have changed your position on the transfiguration and are prepared to present to Parliament a new transfiguration that would improve the position of gender minorities: when will the government remedy this shameful human rights problem in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u29	Madam President! At Government Question Time, at Government Question Time, the Government responds with the mouth of its ministers on behalf of the entire Government. And with regard to this transfiguration, there is a situation where the agreement of this government that the law can proceed is not, at least not at the moment. Secondly, the representative asks the question, which is true in substance, that the situation in 2003 and 2007 has changed in person. And the situation has changed due, among other things, to appeals from human rights petitions and human rights organisations and, above all, to international agreements that we have concluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u30	Mr President! This Amnesty report on human rights must be taken seriously. Finland is the best country for all of us when the human rights and fundamental rights of everyone are cared for as well as possible, so it was the care of the elderly, the rights of people with disabilities, gender minorities or the legal protection of asylum seekers. When the legal security and fundamental rights of all are taken care of, everyone in Finland has the opportunity to survive. With regard to this situation of asylum seekers, I would like to point out that there has been a legal gap, a group of undocumented people, on the basis of this decision taken by the government of the last and last term of government, which does not grant temporary residence permits to persons who receive a negative decision in Finland in the asylum procedure but who cannot be sent to their country of origin if there is a life-threatening situation. This has created this gap where it seems that these people are not receiving support or security from Finland, and there are also rumours that some of them are being forced into Iraq. What's the situation, Minister of the Interior? How Finland ensures that these people can receive support in Finland, and whether Finland is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u31	Madam President! We have taken very seriously the country-specific information that has come from Iraq and, for example, when the administrative court has accepted its complaint and we have noted it, Migri has then taken it into account in its decisions. It's exactly this geography that always works. If there is a serious situation in the region, then they will not be sent there, just as other countries do in the same way, so will Finland. I believe that we have now been able to correct those situations according to geography, and it is always worth complaining about them if such a wrong decision has been taken, but it is well that these decisions taken by Migri have remained in the administrative court, but of course if the geography changes, then it will be changed, and now Migri has changed its decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u32	Mr President! The number of asylum seekers fell considerably last year from what they were in 2015, and this year there are still fewer figures in the beginning of the year. The quality of decisions has also improved, and an increasing percentage will receive a residence permit, so something has been done quite correctly. At the end of 2015, the government published a multi-item program promising further blackmail. However, not all of them have yet been implemented, and I would like to ask the corresponding minister at this point in time when these long-awaited measures are being prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u33	Madam President! At the time, different possibilities have been assessed, just as they exist in other countries, and at the moment there have been studies. We have dealt with them in the ministerial group, and, for example, in this area of family reunification, which has been done, it has been considered that this condition of economic livelihood is so high that it overshadows those other things that have been proposed at the time. That is why, at least at this stage, we do not have any preparation, but we will of course continue with the reports, because that is what has been decided at that time, but at least at this point we are not making any other blackmails.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u34	Madam President! We know that the human rights situation in Afghanistan is so weak at the moment that asylum seekers who have left Islam and converted into Christians cannot be returned at all. These communities are subject to sharia legislation and the risk of life is obvious if this conversion and baptism are known. Now that the staff of the Immigration Service are addressing these people, it is quite obvious that it is not easy to establish that religious belief, and some of these Christians, baptized Afghans, have, in my opinion, been given a negative decision in an incomprehensible way. I assume that, in part, this is about the fact that when you have had to recruit employees at a rapid pace in the Finnish Immigration Service, there is also a question of incompetence. I would now like to ask you: in what way this interview will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u35	Madam President! This is an important observation that the interview and the debate must be attended by well-informed people. And now that you bring up religion and the fact that if you have been baptized in Finland, whether it affects it, however, we must, in principle, always look at whether a person needs protection, whether he meets the criteria. Baptism in Finland cannot be the only reason. Then you always have to look at what is the argument that would give him asylum. We have also invested very much in the quality of the interview and also in taking into account religious convictions. But as you will certainly understand as a former Minister of the Interior, religion cannot be the only reason why a person would be given asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u36	Mr President! Indeed, during this parliamentary term, we have on several occasions changed the legislation on immigration. Finland has tightened its own legislation like the rest of Europe, and surely some of the blackmails are justified and some are not. However, it is worth noting that we have been able to read the public word throughout the autumn and this spring also about the human tragedies that have been caused by Finland’s tightening legislation and about the individuals who suffer from this strained legislation. I would have asked the government and the corresponding Minister Risiko: would it be reasonable for the government, in this situation, to carry out an overall assessment of the impact of these amended legislation on the legal security and status of asylum seekers in Finland, in order to make this whole thing clear and avoid these human tragedies being heard in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u37	Madam President! Our agreements require that people be treated fairly. Our law requires that we always look at the personal situation. We're collecting ground data. We are certainly trying and trying to ensure that people are properly treated in Finland. We certainly want to help people in a situation of need. But then, of course, there are these, to which the individual cases to which you refer, unfortunately I am unable to take a position, and I cannot take a position because those decisions have been taken on the part of the civil service and they are making their own decisions. But this estimate: We are constantly evaluating it in relation to the practices of other countries, and we are constantly evaluating what these affect in Finland. We have a lot of information about how these affect us. Unfortunately, what happens to people in that country is not something we can follow for everyone. We have a volunteer organization called the IOM, which gives us some reports. But everything
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u38	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u39	Mr President! About a month ago I visited Oulu, where I talked to a young girl who is studying at a local vocational school. She told me that she was planning a Make amis great again campaign because she is so concerned about the quality of Finnish vocational education and she also told me that she only receives 13 hours of contact teaching a week at her own vocational institution. Mr Minister for Education and Culture, 13 hours of contact teaching per week is simply far too little. According to the OAJ, the number of local vocational education courses has collapsed in Finland from approximately 36 weekly hours to 22 to 24 weekly hours, or even below, as in this example in Oulu. This is so limited that it also threatens the actual opportunities of professional students to apply for further studies. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, by what means does the government intend to raise local education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u40	Mr President! Thank you for this greeting from the field, which also responds well to my own view of the fact that the reduction in the number of local education is of great concern. Of course, it is also linked to the fact that vocational education and training today is much more diverse than it has been in the past, so it has even been hoped that we will move towards more open learning environments, that learning will take place more in the workplace, where there will be practical working life, where you will then also be able to have contacts with working life. In addition, learning is indeed quite diverse today, there are collaborative projects and so on. But that cannot mean that students' support for learning and that sufficient contact education would not come about. The government is currently preparing a major legislative reform of vocational education and training, a reform of vocational education and training, which is currently being finalised. It will bring new tools to organise vocational training even better in line with the needs of future working life and so that individual paths can be realised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u41	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u42	Mr President! Our concern is that not all students who study in vocational education are students who can cope with these individual study paths, but students also need support, they need the community and the guidance, the teaching the teachers give there. Our concern now is that this reform of vocational education and training does not solve these major problems related to resources, which is currently in vocational education and training in Finland. The reform of vocational education and training is therefore due to come into force from the beginning of next year, but this year the funding of vocational education and training will be cut by 220 million. What is the government's assessment of how well these reform objectives of increasing learning in the workplace or individual learning paths can be achieved while simultaneously reducing resources? And what is happening in this reform in need of special support?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u43	Mr President! Just as I said, the aim of this reform of vocational education and training is also to provide tools for training providers to organise such training so that, for example, this important local education can be secured for everyone. And when I was talking about individual learning paths, that is precisely what it means to take greater account of the needs of all students, including those students who need more support for their learning. We have a huge problem in vocational education and training, which is precisely the factor leading to the exclusion and fallout of young people outside education and employment. I believe that with this reform of vocational education and training we can make a difference. There are very many tools there specifically to reduce the suspension and increase its support for students who need it more. The economic situation in Finland is, of course, tight at the moment, and vocational education and training also suffers from this, but this reform of vocational education and training is well-expected in the field and brings new tools.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u44	Madam President! The joint application process for upper secondary schools and vocational schools has started. Yes, tens of thousands of 9th graders from all over the country are affected by a joint search each year. From this year on, however, as part of the historical cuts in education, the government cuts EUR 190 million each year from vocational schools, taking about one tenth of the funding away. According to experts, this means that educational institutions will have to think about reducing the number of educational places. I ask you, Minister: Can young people in Finland, in the midst of historic education cuts, trust that all young people who finish their comprehensive school will be able to have a study place after comprehensive school? What will happen to our youth guarantee?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u45	Mr President! Young people, those who have completed their comprehensive school, can count on the opening up of these roads to vocational education and upper secondary school. In Finland, the month of education is what we want to hold on to, i.e. every person who has completed comprehensive school will have a place of further study, or, for example, if there are mental health, substance abuse or other problems, then another solution must be found for the young person. There is a great deal of investment in this. Yesterday I visited Lahti, Ohjaamo, which is a service that aims to provide our young people with the service from one door so that such bounces, youth bounces, stop, and adults would catch up on the difficult situations that our young people may then have. As far as these appropriations for vocational education and training are concerned, this whole Parliament has been making these budgetary decisions. In other words, for the first time, the previous government decided on these reductions in the appropriations for vocational education and training, and this government, unfortunately, inherited it when that motion fell that last week before the parliamentary elections. I'm sure none of us want to remember that week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u46	Madam President! There has been much talk of missing men in recent days — that is, those who do not have education, do not have a job, do not really belong to any system. Many of these have been displaced specifically in primary school or immediately after primary school in secondary school. Especially at the vocational secondary level, interruption rates have been high, and if you do not have a degree, it is difficult to find work, difficult to find a place in society. Now that, in this situation — the government was not forced in any way, but made a choice of values — it is cut off from the professional side, it means that local education will be further reduced. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, how do you think that marginalisation will be reduced, the suspension will be reduced, the lack of working life will be reduced, if, at the same time, you cut back on the resources that should be used specifically to give the local education lessons with which everyone is involved in education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u47	Mr President! I have already described this reform of vocational education and training, which will also provide more tools to address the problem of the drop-out of education and the problem you well described, namely that we have an unfortunately high proportion of the age group falling outside education and working life. And this is a national emergency, and that is something you can say without exaggerating. In other words, we need to be able to find effective ways of tackling the social exclusion of young people, and that is why the government has launched cross-ministerial cooperation in bringing together a more effective range of means to prevent social exclusion among young people. What is such a fact that should be taken into account in this work is that when experienced professionals, teachers, ask, they say that the most visible change in the school world over the last few decades has been the increase in problems outside of school, and in many cases they are rooted in that early childhood and the many unfortunate problems of families. This is what we need to be able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u48	Mr President! The Minister said here that reform should bring new tools to the institutions which organise this vocational training. And the field was really looking forward to this flexibility, because it is known that the cuts are large and the content is being renewed, the funding is being renewed. However, when I have met quite a few representatives of the field, they are disappointed that this did not become a reform that genuinely brings this flexibility, but that the government now pretty much directs this activity in detail. What happened, Minister, along the way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u49	Mr President! In that sense, it may be a little difficult to understand this question, because the proposal has not yet been submitted. So there's no bill yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u53	Madam Speaker! It's a tough situation, isn't it? How this has come about is quite the common story of the parliamentary parties. I think that the way forward should also be something for us to do together. And there are provisions for that in that reform. In particular, there are at least two answers to where Mr Andersson started, namely how to get more of that local education. The first is, of course, that this reform now personalises everyone's study path. It needs to be designed individually. For those who need more education in the form of educational institutions, it must also be possible to provide it. Secondly, this is an incentive for the organiser of education to step up training while maintaining further qualifications. I think we should answer this, too. But it is true that there are pain spots in regional equality, in the survival of the weaker and in the number of local education. Isn't that right, Minister? We'll take care of these things? We believe in our young people and take care of them with this reform and make the necessary decisions that Finland will survive in this respect too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u54	Mr President! It is easy to say to the chairman of the Committee on Education that we are in exactly the same line here, and I believe that we will achieve a reform of vocational education and training, which will take this education in the most important steps and will also enable it to be supported. And I would like to add one more aspect, and that is that one of the objectives of the reform is to increase that job learning, i.e. to transfer it to workplaces too, to genuine learning environments, to learning it. And, for example, in countries where wider workplace learning is available, youth unemployment is lower and it has also been able to have a positive impact on the attitudes of young people towards learning. And of course it is not without problems, and it is not always there, and it is challenging, but nevertheless we accept the challenge and assume that we also respond to the expectations of the young people who feel that after primary school they really want to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u55	Mr President! The essence of this important debate is the quality of vocational education and training. In Tampere, I was invited to explore the state of professional education in the field of electricity, and there were both employers, business life and teachers extremely concerned that due to the cutting of local education and other tasks, those who graduate from the profession will not be able to perform their electrician duties. The most important question now is that reformilaki is to be expected, and from this very point of view of quality, Minister, I would like the Committee on Education to have the necessary time to assess the full scope of the reform, which relates to vocational training. And now I ask: when is the government supposed to give Parliament this government proposal so that there is enough time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u56	Mr President! As soon as that high-quality legislation is completed. We have tried as well as possible to take account of the feedback received in the opinions. The Legislative Evaluation Council is currently examining the draft law and, as soon as it is completed, it will of course be delivered as soon as possible, so that the providers of training will also have time to plan their activities in line with the new legislation. The legislation has also taken into account sufficient transitional periods to the extent necessary. Then I would also like to say that it has been particularly focused on this legislation and that all the providers of education are also going to demand such a systematic quality assessment and continuous development. Of course, one measure of its quality is how students after training become employed. This will also become one of the criteria for funding, which is to guide the organisers of education and training in such a high-quality way that our young and also adult learners will be able to catch up with working life there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u57	There are so many other debates going on here that I would ask you to concentrate on completing this Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u58	Mr President! It must be pointed out to Mr Puumala that this decision to cut off education, especially vocational training, is not a joint decision, nor is it a common choice of values, but is the decision of this government and the choice of values that you defend. It is also difficult to see how these additional cuts, which are now being made this year, would increase the amount of local education when they come on top of the savings and cuts that have already been made. Can the Minister of Education and Culture open this for us? These qualitative problems already exist in vocational education and training. This is a longer-term development, which should be translated into a reduction in resources from local education and vocational training. Is the Minister for Education and Culture still able to concreteise in what way and by what means do we use less resources to achieve more local education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u59	Mr President! There are certain structural factors in current vocational training which lead to a lot of duplication, a lot of administrative work, and different organisations. We have separate legislation for young adults. The recognition of previously acquired skills there works badly, as well as the processes of personalisation. They do a really good job there, but in these matters we can still improve our running and travel, and this reform of vocational education and training will now bring those tools specifically to meet these challenges, i.e. to invest more in, for example, contact teaching. I'm not going to tell you here that this isn't a challenging situation. It's definitely that. Financially, we have a challenging situation in Finland as a whole. Similarly, training providers face major challenges in fulfilling the task, because it is demanding. But that is precisely why we must now build a common functioning vocational education and training system that is more flexible in responding to future expectations and skills needs, and this reform is all in all not only necessary but also well-expected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u60	Next question, Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u61	Madam President, the värderade talman! Vård- och landskapsreformen lär vara på väg hit till ricksdage inom några veckor, men en viktig del av patientens valfrihet kommer hit först i ett senare skde. Jourreformen har vi redan behandlat och tydligen är nya pusselbitar på komande.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u62	Mr President! Thank you for raising this issue, but I have to correct what has been said here. The government decided a year ago on 5.4. When adopting political policies, it is necessary to clarify separately at the end of this parliamentary term and beyond 2019 what conditions would be possible to determine whether the provinces are also subject to tax rights, and such a policy has been adopted jointly by the government. This decision has not yet been taken, in the form in which all the questions are put. We will certainly do so in the government this spring, at the latest in the autumn. But then this parliamentary aspect of this is personal thinking. I think that if a major change is made to the tax system, then it would be good if all the parliamentary parties were involved in this inquiry in some way. This is indeed the idea that there could be some kind of steering group, but the expert group must do the research itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u63	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u64	Madam President! The government is bringing an historic reform in pieces here in Parliament. That's not a good thing at all. Sote reform, regional reform, freedom of choice, on-call reform and related financing solutions are all linked. Why aren't they being handled at the same time? Why are we in such a hurry? Yes, the left hand should know what the right hand is doing, and vice versa. On Tuesday, we discussed the quality of the drafting of legislation, and the Minister of Justice, for example, said at the time that there was a time when it was too busy, when we had to be able to think for a while about what we were doing. That's where Minister Lindström was absolutely right. Therefore, would it not be sensible to pause for a moment when it comes to the reform of social security? It is not too much to demand that Parliament should deal with the whole reform of social security as a whole. I would ask the Minister if it would not be a good idea to put on a little brake so that the various parts of the social welfare reform can be dealt with at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u65	Secretary Vehviläinen first.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u66	Mr President! In fact, this whole is huge, both in terms of social and regional reform, and now, hopefully, we will be able to have a referral debate within a couple of weeks on this first phase of regional social reform, which includes 34 different laws as a package. At the same time, we are also constantly preparing for more stuff here in Parliament, and Minister Rehula can say more on the side of this mess. It is right that there will also be more here later this spring, in the form of a supplementary government proposal, in order to assess this whole, the Constitutional Committee will be able to assess this whole and then all the special committees concerned, and it will also be particularly important in relation to this funding. At this first stage we will have a proposal for funding for social welfare and rescue, and then shortly afterwards we will have to consider this proposal for funding for other tasks in the provinces as a supplement to this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u67	Madam President! To that extent, I will continue to say to Mr Vehviläinen that I would like to ask what is the whole package that should be brought to Parliament so that it can be evaluated as a whole. Why am I asking this question? Because we are now giving Parliament the foundations, the body with the funding, the administration and the framework with which the regional preparation, the regional work goes forward. We have a great deal to do in the ministries as well as in Parliament during this parliamentary term to update the content legislation relating to the change in social welfare and health care. You referred to the amendment of the Health Care Act, in other words, the so-called hospital law, which is one example. Secondly, yesterday I appointed a working group to prepare customer charges. We are going to reform more than a hundred laws under the heading of the law because these foundations, which are now being given to Parliament and which are still being decided by Parliament this spring, will bring about:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u68	Mr President! I think this is a very good question. We know from the last parliamentary term that funding is a very important part of the organisation of social and health services and, if we recall what the questions that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs felt were very problematic about the government's proposals at the time, they were about funding and how the residents of the municipality will then be able to influence their vote on how the services are organised. Yes, I share the concern that now that the issue of this taxation is introduced separately, how will Parliament be able to decide this whole thing? I think the Minister said well, very well listed the factors that are part of the whole of the social welfare proposal, but is it not precisely this right of taxation that is one of the very fundamental aspects of democracy in this package?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u70	Mr President! Yes, I repeat that we in the government have taken the line that we are going to report on this possible tax law. But then I would like to say that, when this package that will come into force in 2019 is already hugely extensive, I personally think that it is better that we do not now bring that tax law into this whole in 2019. In other words, as everyone in this Chamber knows, so that we can make this regional funding — the wars and then all the other tasks — there is a huge transfer of funds in this area, a transfer of income from the municipal tax revenue, plus a transfer of state resources through the state back to the provinces. This is a complex whole, and I think it will take better control in such a way that this early stage is through state funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u71	Värderade fru talman! Det är alldeles självfallet att finansieringen av hela vårdreformen, hela landskapsreformen är ytterst central. Om vi inte i dag vet hur det rai ska se ut om några år, då är vi nog uute på hal is. Jag förstår att regeringen vill utreda en Skatt, men jag tycker att man inte borde föra hela packagetet hit förrän man faktiskt har alla bitar på papper och kan bedöma consekvenserna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u72	Yes, indeed, I do think that we already have quite a large package as it stands, which is what has been outlined at this stage. In its Government Programme, the Government has set out two major principles for regional funding for these social benefits: the overall tax rate must not increase and the taxation of labour must not be tightened. We have also had them in this context when we have made all these decisions. If we are talking about the hallmarks of self-government, we all know that tax law is one of them, but it is only one of them, and we municipalities have a very large degree of self-government. But as far as the provinces are concerned, we do not have the same detailed provisions in the Constitution, which should be the self-governance of the provinces. At this stage, it means that the provincial council is the supreme decision-making body and that the decision-makers are elected there directly through the regional elections, and this is where we move forward. I do think that, and I have heard that there are quite a few people here who think that, as a sufficiently challenging whole, this is already the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u73	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Then let's move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u74	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and colleagues and others present! Today we are debating the Lex Malmi citizens' initiative. Personally, I have been a friend of Malmi for a long time and I think that if the termination of Malmi Airport is progressing, then we are making an irreversible mistake. In fact, the new aviation technology in the world is restoring to active use the Malmi-type airports, which are surrounded by urban structures, and the so-called urban airports that have been condemned for closure have also been re-introduced throughout the world. The reopening and rapid development of Bromma's field, which is located in the middle of Stockholm, and which was in fact also due to an end, is an excellent example of what the world is going to do at the moment. That is why I am concerned about what is now being done in Finland with regard to Malmi. I do not see any reasonable reason why such an airport — in fact the only airport in Helsinki — should be closed down. Of course, Helsinki Airport's international scheduled airport would continue to operate, but after the end of Malmi, the city would be the only city in its size class without a airport such as Malmi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u79	Madam President! I have never seen any bill that is as thorough, versatile and convincing as the Lex Malmi Act. This bill lists countless fact-based arguments as to why Helsinki-Malmi Airport should remain in aviation use. Now the citizens' initiative has come to Parliament for our representatives to decide, and I hope that all parties will support a rational solution to maintain Malmi Airport in aviation use. For years, the Finns of Helsinki have systematically defended the preservation of Malmi Airport in aviation use. The Centre Party has supported the maintenance of Malmi Airport in an upright, consistent and determined manner, and in this way deserves to be commended for the good work it has done. I would like to see a similar posture from the Government Party in favour of preserving Malmi Airport. I would also like to thank Mr Heino for his excellent speech and I hope that there will be more representatives like Mr Heinonen in the assembly. The RKP deserves special thanks for its support at the Helsinki Council for maintaining Malmi Airport. There are also individual representatives from other parties who support this rational solution. I hope you will also convince the other representatives of your parliamentary group that Malmi Airport must survive. Madam President! The Helsinki people don't want Malmi Airport destroyed. According to the poll commissioned by TNS Gallup in 2016, the majority of Uusimaa residents are opposed to the destruction of Malmi Airport. According to TNS Gallup, only 13 % The residents of Uusimaa are in favour of it if the needs of housing construction can be met differently. I understand that it can sometimes be difficult to perceive big entities, but I appeal to all the opponents of Malmi Airport to reconsider their position and to listen to the will of the majority of the people. Areas such as Malmi Airport need to be specifically developed. We don't know what the future holds. For example, future technology, unmanned drones and robotization potential in aviation technology also need the infrastructure and knowledge base already available at Malmi Airport. Madam President! Malmi Airport can only be destroyed once. The consequences of such an irresponsible policy are permanent. Now we are in a situation where a small group wants to solve the housing shortage in Helsinki by building apartments on Malmi Airport. Helsinki cannot solve the problem of expensive housing alone, but larger solutions, such as municipal mergers, are needed to reduce housing prices. Building a cultural heritage site like Malmi Airport would be like building houses in Esplanade Park. This is no solution. I hope that Parliament will be vigilant in making decisions to preserve Malmi Airport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u80	Mr President! Two good speeches were already heard, with the correct message. I wonder, though, what the City of Helsinki has to say on this matter, whether Helsinki will not see the resources and opportunities that are attached to Malmi Airport. Frankly, I would like to appeal to the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki: Change your mind on this. I believe that in the long run, you will thank me if Malmi remains.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u83	As you have already noticed, it is now possible to register for the debate, so let us do so — here are a number of speakers who have made themselves known, so Mr Terho is next.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u84	Mr President! Good speeches have already been made here before the debate on the permanent value of Malmi Airport. It provides connections to the regions and promotes the reachability of Finland as a whole. Similarly, it was rightly pointed out here that in the long term the value of the field, both its value of use and, of course, its unique cultural value, will remain and grow. The airport also supports the growth of commercial air traffic in general, but also security of supply and resilience to crisis. It can be used for rescue operations. So the range of criteria is very wide in order to maintain this field. It is also, as I said, a unique national heritage site. And as has been well said, it can only be destroyed once, it cannot be brought back if it is now quickly out of hand. With these arguments, I would also like to warmly support the search for all the means and solutions to maintain the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u85	Mr President! We should thank those who have taken the initiative for their excellent and important work. It also makes it possible to discuss this issue here. At the same time, it is worth recalling where this debate started. In 2014, the Government made a decision to divest the State of its operations in Malmi Airport. And the government explicitly stated at that time that this area would be taken for housing purposes from the point of view of the government, i.e. the state. That government was led by Prime Minister Katainen. Since then, the City of Helsinki has made a new general formula and acted in accordance with this government's request. Now, of course, the ministers of the present government are the key. It's great that Prime Minister Sipilä is here on the spot. I expect him to tell me whether the government has plans to change this 2014 decision, whether the state is returning its operations, such as the Border Guard, to Malmi Airport, so that it has a wider use. With regard to state activities, the Government also has the keys as an airport operator to tell us what the State thinks will be done in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u86	Madam President! As can be deduced from the citizens' initiative, a strong public opinion is in favour of maintaining and developing the field. The conscious dismantling of the airport and its handling, especially in the City Council of Helsinki, have been very sad to observe, especially when it is known that 59 per cent of the residents of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area would maintain Malmi's operations. Fortunately, however, the fate of Malmi has not yet been completed. Personally, I absolutely believe that Malmi Airport should be kept in aviation use. A number of reasons are in favour of this, and many speakers have already heard these reasons today. The importance of aviation is far from diminishing, but will continue to grow in the future. The historical value and nature values of the field must also be taken into account. And Malmi is really not just a Helsinki matter, it is precisely the whole of Finland. It is madness to destroy a workable, valuable field, and hopefully Parliament will now have this matter in its head.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u87	Mr President! Some believe that this question of the future of Malmi Airport is mainly a matter of local policy, but the fact that the state and the Government have been involved along the way, and the fact that this citizens' initiative is now here in Parliament, makes this a national issue. A few years ago, the City of Helsinki expropriated part of Sipoo, inter alia, by claiming that this planning of Malmi's business is not moving forward. Well, now this need for construction at Malmi Airport is justified, among other things, by the fact that things do not move forward in the expropriated Sipoo area. That's quite a circular conclusion. I personally welcome the aim of Lex Malmi's citizens' initiative and I hope that it can be resolved through the exchange of land or, for example, through the model presented by Mr Heinonen in such a way that air operations on Malmi Airport will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u88	Madam President! There have been some excellent speeches here. Sometimes it is just that the decision-makers are unable to make decisions that reflect the national modesty that has taken place in the case of Malmi Airport. The fact that in time the Katainen government decided to abandon this was a big mistake, and now there is a chance of correcting it. It is true that the uniqueness of this airport is something that may not even apply to Finland alone, but is an important area at European level. I am absolutely in favour of continuing to operate this field and I believe that there are many good models here to implement it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u89	Then Prime Minister Sipilä, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u90	Madam President! I agree that the 2014 decision was a mistake. What has the government done since then? First of all, we looked into whether that agreement could be dissolved and, in accordance with the instructions of the Chancellor of Justice, we came to the conclusion that it was impossible. Since then, we have had a number of discussions with the City of Helsinki about whether a voluntary road or a voluntary road to trade would be found in this country, and that road has not led to anything. The City of Helsinki has not been ready for this route of migration. All in all, this is an area of cultural historical importance. It's important for flight training, it's important for hobby activities. There's maintenance, there's a couple hundred jobs. It is an extremely important part of Helsinki, and when the people around it and the vast majority feel that it is worthwhile to keep it there, I think that we should now find ways forward to find a solution. And, as we have said several times, this government is prepared to take this matter, to save Malmi Airport, if we find a partner in the City of Helsinki in that, for example, through the exchange of land, we will find a substitute area or if we are able to dismantle this agreement. This, of course, largely depends on the new elected City Councillors in Helsinki. That's where these decisions are eventually made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u91	Mr President! It is good to hear the Prime Minister say this situation and say where it actually stands. The field of Malmi has been defended in many ways. That's what I've been doing, and I'm still defending it. There's one thing that's been very rarely raised: In the case of these public aviation activities, and The Finnish Defence Forces' aviation operations are moving out of there and, for us, the ability of Helsinki Airport to operate is all the more important, so the transfer of these operations to Helsinki Airport can at its worst jeopardise the expansion of Helsinki Airport and the smooth functioning of the flight connections to the east. So this too is one thing that should be taken into account in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u92	Madam President! During this week I have looked at Helsinki from a bird perspective several times. Helsinki, our capital, is very wooded, and there are a lot of big areas here where residential construction could certainly be better than in that area of Malmi Airport. Helsinki must also be seen as a comfortable recreation area and a park-like area in addition to living and working in the economy. Although this airport itself falls under the decision of the municipal self-government of the City of Helsinki, i.e. planning and land use, this airport has a national significance. I therefore appeal, as the Prime Minister also said, to the decision-makers of Helsinki, representatives of the City of Helsinki, to take a spoon in their beautiful hands and to consider once again whether there is an agreement between the state and the city that, for example, this change of land areas should:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u93	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank the authors of the Lex Malmi initiative, always active in the form of a citizens' initiative is admirable, and I would like to stress that in the Committee on Transport and Communications this initiative will receive good and proper treatment and extensive consultation. Now that Minister Tiilikainen is on the spot as Minister of Housing, I would like to ask whether you see a problem in terms of the MAL agreement that has been concluded in this area, because, according to the MAL agreement, Helsinki is committed to producing 60,000 new dwellings, of which 25,500 are designed in accordance with planning and other requirements to that area of Malmi Airport. Do you see a contradiction here, now that you are still a candidate for Helsinki?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u94	Minister Tiilikainen, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u95	Mr President! The current MAL agreement concluded by the State with the City of Helsinki extends until 2019. During this period there would be no time to build the first apartment at Malmi Airport, i.e. the current MAL agreement and its construction objectives will be fully feasible without the construction of Malmi Airport. By the way, the Raide-Joker project — perhaps I am a little behind it — will provide tens of thousands of new residential buildings, apartments and building options over time. Further construction, which the City of Helsinki will in fact raise as a major way of producing more residential building, is also a good way of producing more apartments along the existing infrastructure, and the Government will try to speed it up by streamlining the planning of the building, and hopefully the amendments to the Companies Act will also be able to move in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u96	Madam President! It is important that this issue is now on the table. This has to do with a lot of things. This has to do with housing policy, it has to do with cultural policy, it has to do with transport policy, it has to do with security of supply. When Mr Heinäluoma began to complain about Prime Minister Katai, it must be remembered that Minister Viitanen was in the same government as the Minister of Housing and there was Minister of Transport Kyllönen and the Minister of Finance Urpilainen and the Minister of Culture Arhinmäki, which means that many more than the Prime Minister are responsible for this. It is also important to remember that the climate and regional objectives of housing construction include building as much as possible on the rail link and in that connection. This area is by no means that. Building a rubber-wheel neighborhood with 25,000 inhabitants, at the same time the green ones are narrowing the entrance routes into the boulevards. In other words, these regional use targets must also be borne in mind when housing construction is taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u97	Mr President! It should be said that I did not criticise the former representative, Mr Katais. I merely stated that this decision was taken in 2014, when the Prime Minister was Mrs Katainen, and there were other parties in that government from the RKP, whether or not she was involved in the Left Alliance. [TimoHeinonen : Let's say the demos!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u98	Madam President! It is a pity that the Prime Minister went away, and I would have been able to publicly thank him just as Mr Heinäluomaa did when they discovered that a mistake had been made in 2014. I don't thank you for that mistake, but I do appreciate the fact that they know how to fix it. That would be shocking if we were only stubbornly held to the fact that something has been done and the authority does not allow it to change. That is why I think it is thanks to the public to be able to correct obvious mistakes. This own argument, which is why I am on the side of this airport, is that it is an international airport and it is a cultural heritage site. They are enough to maintain this airport, because it is by no means a matter for a municipality or a city, whether it will or not, because it is of far greater and wider significance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u99	Instead of looking back on what has been done and not done, we must remember that electric aircraft are coming, Skyüber services are coming. We need an airfield that does not work at Helsinki Airport, which has scheduled air traffic, and in that sense I will also compare Malmi to the Bromma in Stockholm. I've often flown there, it's a pretty good field, it's close to the city. Such city fields will now be the future, and we would make a unique mistake if we stopped Malmi Airport. The aviation training that is there and this general aviation is also a very important issue. It is also a funk building, which has been one of these protected sites, so it is certainly worth preserving and developing this field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u100	Värderade fru talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen har förståelse och delar strävandena att bevara Malms flygplats som flygplats. Som man i medborgariativet constaterar har flygplatsen en nationalell betydelse för luftfarten i Finland och flygplatsens roll som landningsplats för mindre affärsflyg har under Senare år bara ökat. Utöver det finns det den kulturhistoriska aspekten som bör respekteras när besluten fattas. Frågan är dock inte helt ocomplicerad. Vi bör i alla lägen spectera den kommunala planeringsautomin. Svenska riksdagsgruppen anser ändå att centers förslag att lösa frågan är construktivt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u101	Mr President! Thank you very much for the quality of the citizens' initiative. I've only been here a few years and I haven't seen anything so well written yet. Thank you for that. It's been a lot of effort. Various solutions have been sought here, including the search for the transfer of recreational aviation at Hyvinkää and Nummela airports. This was the subject of a report by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which was completed at the end of 2014 and stated that this was not possible. For example, Hyvinkää, where I come from, has no air traffic control, should be built, and there are groundwater areas and there is planning next to, and there are also such permanent noise restrictions. Of course it could have been a good thing for us in Hyvinkää, I'm not saying in that sense, but yes this position as an international field and cultural heritage is so important that we would lose this kind of city-field, as someone has already mentioned here. And I am absolutely in favour of this citizens' initiative and I hope that this issue will now be resolved in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u102	Madam President! I myself am also in favour of maintaining Malmi Airport for the purpose of flying, and I hope that the Helsinki-based decision-makers, who are currently relatively little present in this Chamber, will understand the importance of this issue. Malmi is a culturally valuable field, but Malmi Airport is in favour of its place, especially for air enthusiasts. The Lex Malmi issue would probably guarantee continued operations, and I hope that the City of Helsinki will be able to accept properly this offer of land change, which Mr Sipilä offered in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u103	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank you for the citizens' initiative. I think that they are always a good thing, because there is a sense of initiative among the citizens. And citizens' initiatives always deserve proper consideration in Parliament as well. President! However, I would also like to continue this debate from the point of view that I think Mrs Heinäluoma has raised quite well and illustratively in the past. The situation is now that this issue is in the debate here on the state side. And now, of course, it is essential to get an answer to the question that what is the government going to do for itself, because here the government just became, as it were, this kind of sympathy for the initiative. In other words, it would be essential to get an answer now to the question whether the State, whether the government, has now taken steps to re-establish the various activities in this area — flight operations, the Border Guard, all of these — that is, whether any of these decisions or plans have now been taken by the State itself, by the Government, in the course of this couple of years, since this matter has now been in the hands of this government. I think it's absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u104	Madam President! If I have understood correctly, no speech has yet opposed this citizens' initiative, and that is historic. And I think it is the first time that the Prime Minister has also given such a strong message and support to the citizens' initiative, thanks also for that. There is also the Minister of Housing here, but also the Minister of Transport Berner. You are a minister with a strong eye for the future. Could you briefly tell us what you think of Malmi and its potential for future mobility? And if I am ever surprised, as Mr Viitane does, I am surprised that there is not a single green one here. However, this is a unique green area in Helsinki. They have all opposed this initiative, that is to say, they have supported the end of this Malmi in Helsinki, and now that we are trying to defend it and save it, they are not here. The election campaigns are now so tight that we cannot be here to defend this very important green area, where there is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u105	Madam President! Citizens' initiative In order to preserve Malmi Airport, it is very well done and must have been spent a great deal of time. It is also worth it, so it is easy to support this issue. When it comes to the last term of office and the year 2014, it must be said that even then the centre was unanimously in favour of maintaining Malmi Airport in its present form. When the Committee on Transport and Communications submitted a report on it then, we were in favour of maintaining it in air operations. The maintenance of Malmi Airport is supported by a number of factors, including transport, cultural and recreational matters. And Malmi Airport is not just a matter for Helsinki — it is a matter for the whole country, for the whole of Finland. The city centre wants to maintain its operations, airports throughout Finland, and that is why we also hope that Malmi Airport will remain operational.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u106	Madam President! However, this is a very important cultural environment. Of course, such voluntary solutions are always welcome to maintain Malmi Airport, but nevertheless the decisions of the City of Helsinki may not be counted here. This is precisely, as has been said many times here, the whole of Finland. Malmi Airport serves the whole of Finland. I could compare to such a situation if the city of Savonlinna decided to dismantle Olavinlinna: it is not a matter for the city of Savonlinna, but it is a matter for the whole of Finland. The destruction of this remarkable cultural heritage must be influenced by the Finnish Parliament. I therefore hope that there will also be a unified position in this area. The Finns of Peru are in favour of conservation and apparently the centre as a whole, and this is very dependent on whether Malmi Airport will survive, then it will be up to the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u107	Mr President! After all, this is Finland's first international airport, but its future, especially in the long term, benefits and supports the growth of the national product of Finland's regions, but also Helsinki. The cultural value it holds and the value of buildings and their environmental value have been mentioned many times here, so I personally believe that it would be particularly useful to preserve it for the future. I would like to ask the Minister, and in particular for the committee, whether there has been no coordination in this area since 2014.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u108	Madam President! The objective of this Lex Malmi is good and right, and it is very strange that the capital region wants to be overrun by this historic and significant airport. I believe there is room for this construction elsewhere. This decision by Malmi, as has already been mentioned here, does have a dramatic impact on Finland as a whole, aviation and aviation activities, business flying and so on. Because of this central role, it has been used by both aviation enthusiasts and the Border Guard. Experiences exist when airports are closed: this was also the case in South Ostrobothnia due to the closure of Kauhava Air Force School. In this context, I believe that an overall analysis of air transport as a whole should be carried out, with the aim of ensuring smooth, cost-effective training, business and air transport. This study could be carried out in cooperation between several ministries: the Ministry of Defence, Education and Culture, the Ministry of Transport and so on. I hope that action can be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u109	Madam President! In time, I myself have been sailing, and now I am still an active successor to aviation. I have never met such a large number of politicians who speak in favour of recreational aviation in such a positive way before, especially when, as an aviation enthusiast, I was trying to influence the development of the conditions for recreational aviation. I do not know whether it is because of this early spring or the approaching municipal elections that there is so much support, but it is good that there is. I, too, have great sympathy for recreational aviation and, above all, in this case, for Malmi, and that is a good thing. But I would also like to ask the Prime Minister's answer as to whether the State intends to return these activities and activities to Malmi. As a member of the Administrative Committee, I have been able to visit the Border Guard base at Malmi and, of course, I would still miss that base there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u110	Madam President! I would like to compare this with the Olympic Stadium. The most advantageous option would probably have been for the stadium to be dismantled and built new. This was not the case and the way forward is the right way forward. Cultural history, building history has an important role to play in people's environment and understanding of the whole. Safety, security of supply, crisis situations have been highlighted here. You can't overemphasize them. From an environmental point of view, I would like to point out that if this activity were to be stopped, then we would have to find an alternative solution. I would not like to see that debate when a new airport is being set up in the virgin region. There will certainly be unacceptable environmental challenges, resistance and excessive extra costs for the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u111	Madam President! I'm not a congressman from Helsinki. I do come from a town in southern Finland that is four times bigger than Helsinki’s surface area. When we went to Malmi with the delegation from the central parliamentary group, we said that there is room to build in Helsinki and there is Vantaa right next to it. So there's room to build. Indeed, it has been well said here that air transport is now changing, coming from electric motors, coming from taxi traffic. Even for the regions, there is a need to have an airport here in Helsinki that can become scheduled traffic. So this is a question for Finland, and I really hope that the people of Helsinki now understand this whole. With perhaps new decision-makers coming to see this in a different way, I hope that the state and Helsinki can now move forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u112	Madam President! It would be very sad if such an historic resort, an aerodrome, were to be closed down. I hope that this initiative will indeed go through — a very well-managed citizens' initiative. There are many things that Helsinki always justifies, and there have been museums and libraries based on the fact that these are national projects, but this is only a national project. I can see that this is where the network is connected on the part of aviation enthusiasts across the whole of Finland. It also allows us to develop these regional fields. For example, we have At the moment, there is a strong rise in Sassi’s field for zoning and other purposes. As far as tourism is concerned, it is really a big thing that we also have an international field here near the city of Helsinki, from which we can fly. Here is the big money for tourism in the future, including this electronic air transport and also taxi transport. I'm also an aviation enthusiast, but more I'm gonna come down with a rag from that sky.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u113	Madam President! Indeed, it is rare that there are so many people on the ground discussing the citizens' initiative, and it is rare that the ministers concerned are here to listen to what is being discussed and also to respond. The reason why Members of Parliament are here to speak about the issue in the Helsinki region is certainly due to the fact that aviation enthusiasts all over Finland are really getting in touch with us parliamentarians and are asking for help in this regard. This is not yet lost. As the Prime Minister said, several options have been offered to Helsinki from the point of view of the state as to how to proceed. The central party is in favour of hoping to find a solution that will preserve Malmi. Now there is actually a scepter in the hands of the municipal decision-makers in Helsinki, and I hope that Helsinki will catch it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u114	Madam President! As has been said here in many speeches, this Malmi Airport is of great national importance and, when it is of national importance, it cannot be a matter of decision-making alone in an individual municipality. We have also heard about the needs of future aviation and, of course, the capital region plays a very important role in our aviation activities. We also know that the airport of Helsinki Airport has become an increasingly growing airport in line with international needs, and as a result, so-called inland transport and the use of single-engined aircraft and commercial jets within the country is not so suitable for the airport, as it will then be detrimental to this international operation again. That's why we need another field for the capital region. Malmi is a ready field, and I warmly support the approval of this Lex Malmi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u115	One speech before Mr Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u116	Mr President! The key question in this respect is whether the State is now restoring activities to Malmi — this is the core issue — if and when agreement is reached with the City of Helsinki, otherwise this is the decision-making power of the City of Helsinki. And it is now necessary to be honest enough to say that I do not consider it very good that the decision on the municipal planning rather than the administrative right is being appealed to Parliament by means of a citizens' initiative. Well, we've gone wrong then, haven't we? As long as this matter falls within the zoning framework of the City of Helsinki and the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki are responsible for it, so long the City of Helsinki will actually take that decision. Here you can then start to influence the candidates who are nominated for the City Council of Helsinki. But when I look at it, not many of us are going there. I would have asked the Minister how you respond to the fact that many legal scholars have found such separate laws quite difficult to regulate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u117	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u118	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The future of Malmi Airport has been discussed for a long time. The current situation has come to an end as a result of previous studies and decisions taken on the basis of them. In spring 2014, the Government decided in the budgetary plan for 2015-2018 that Malmi Airport will be taken into use for housing purposes and that the state activities in the field area will be discontinued as soon as possible, at the latest by 2020. In addition, the agreement between the state and the municipalities of the Helsinki Region on support for major infrastructure projects and the promotion of housing was approved at the Government General Assembly in November 2014. The agreement states that the State will close its operations at Malmi Airport during 2016, but by the end of 2020 at the latest, after which the area will return to the City of Helsinki. In other words, there has been no significant role for the state in this parliamentary term. The city of Helsinki’s land use target has long been the consolidation and rehabilitation of the urban structure. The need for the City of Helsinki to respond to the growing housing needs of the capital has been in the background. The city has seen Helsinki-Malmi Airport as a good place for housing construction. The City Council of Helsinki approved a new general formula in October last year. The general formula enables Helsinki to grow into a city of approximately 860,000 inhabitants by 2050. Malmi Airport is the most important new construction area in the new Helsinki general plan, and it has been thought that apartments will be located for up to 25,000 inhabitants over the next decades. The airport area of Malmi has been rented from the City of Helsinki, to which Finavia has sold the property it owns in the area. Finavia had an administrative right to these premises and land until the end of 2016. Finavia and its operations have withdrawn from the airport at the beginning of 2017. The use of Helsinki-Malmi Airport will be decided in the future by the City of Helsinki. The City of Helsinki Property Board decided to rent the area on Malmi Airport to Malmi Airport Association for the maintenance of an unsupervised aerodrome and leisure and general aviation operations from the beginning of 2017. The Finnish Transport Safety Agency Trafi has granted an operating permit to Malmi Airport Association. The permit is valid for an indefinite period or until the right to use the land as an aerodrome expires. The rental period ends at the latest at the end of 2019. The purpose of the citizens' initiative, Lex Malmi, is to maintain Malmi Airport in aviation use. Lex Malmi is proposing restrictions on the aerodrome or the state's right to redeem the area. The citizens' initiative submitted to Parliament shows that there is widespread interest and concern about the future of Malmi Airport. The Lex Malmi initiative emphasises the significant importance of Malmi Airport for the Finnish aviation industry, cultural landscapes, natural values, recreational needs of residents, accessibility and security of supply in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. The Lex Malmi citizens' initiative now allows Parliament to assess the means of maintaining an airport that has not been fully available at the moment. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has also considered the options by which Helsinki abandons the target for residential and recreational use in the Malmi Airport area — this would enable the airport to be maintained as a transport area in the general plan — or that an agreement would alternatively arise between the City of Helsinki and the State. These are different possibilities we have forked, but Helsinki has not voluntarily chosen to give up taking the area for residential use, and the state has offered various opportunities to launch discussions on a possible compensatory land area. All in all, air transport is one mode of transport that is significantly changing and developing among others. Services are on the increase, air taxis are being created, and entrepreneurship is being created to create new forms of service. In the second phase of the transport cycle, we are trying to support this development again from a regulatory point of view. At the same time, digitalisation and technological development will also enable air navigation as a service to be produced in another way than has been possible at present. All of this creates the conditions for new instruments, new possibilities for assessing and making decisions for the maintenance of an airport. Parliament has a very great opportunity here to support this project and also to bring in the means through which these decisions can be made. However, Patria and the Border Guard make independent decisions
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u119	And Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u120	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Berner described how efforts have been made to change that situation during this period on the part of the government by offering land exchanges or the possibility to terminate that agreement. If a citizens' initiative leads to a result in this Parliament and, for example, through the exchange of land, it is progressing, then of course it will also be in a new situation with regard to these negotiations. Mr Heinonen asked mainly about these natural values in the area, and you yourself mentioned something about the species in the area in your excellent opening speech. For example, you mentioned the fact that there is a little toy in the area, Lanius collurio, and a bush pocket, Saxicola rubetra, both of which are nesting species in such open, meadowlike areas, who thrive in the periphery. They are also long - distance migrants, which means that with climate change their global position is at risk, and that is why these nesting sites need to be taken care of. You also mentioned rye, Crex crex. In addition, in these meadow areas, I think there are sightings of quail, Coturnix coturnix. However, there is no certainty as to the nesting of these sights. In addition to these open areas, there are also valuable deciduous forests on the east side of the region, which also have a relatively large number of shovels, and there are these types of indicators, which reflect these natural values, such as the tiny woodpecker, Dendrocopos minor and the small picket fence, the Ficedula flock, which require such areas to be able to live. Unfortunately, I have not done a more systematic analysis of this in that area, but I would recall that there are at least such natural values in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u122	Is there still a pressing need for a debut?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u123	Mr President! When I listened to Minister Tiilikainen's speech, it occurred to me that there was now a "Politics populus" in the toilet, but I was not quite sure of that outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u126	Mr President! This view of Helsinki focuses on housing construction. At the same time, however, it is forgotten that the forms of mobility are developing and changing rapidly. The problem of housing can also be solved by maintaining and developing mobility opportunities. So this is one point of view, which also supports Malmi and responds to this need for housing. Similarly, such small fields, specifically in the vicinity of cities, are also popular in the European Union, and that too should be taken into account. But as chairman of the committee, everyone here has been in favour as a rule, so the City of Helsinki can:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u127	Madam President! It is very valuable that the Prime Minister and the Government have expressed their views here and their ambition to maintain Malmi Airport. When Sipoo was once incorporated into Helsinki, Helsinki based itself on the "significant regional causes" section of the law. Then, as the matter progressed to the Supreme Administrative Court, the argument also lasted there. Ladies and gentlemen of Helsinki, it is now a matter of major national and supranational reasons, which should also weigh on the thinking of Helsinki's decision-makers. The Helsinki people themselves have already expressed their views, but only the decision-makers do not seem to be hearing their voters now. It is sad that the decision-makers in Helsinki are so narrow-minded in this regard. Two million people will soon live here in the capital region. I'm sure we can use Malmi Airport here. Under no circumstances should Malmi Airport be removed from aviation use.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u128	Mr President! I am not particularly central to the decision-making process in Helsinki, but I have been monitoring the progress of this project and I say that this is a bit unreasonable for Helsinki. First, the government of the country says — three years ago — that the state will abandon Malmi's operations and move all its activities out of it, does not need Malmi Airport, and calls on the city to use this for housing purposes in an area where the price level of dwellings is very high due to the lack of sufficient housing. And when the city does this, then they come and say that it's terrible how Helsinki doesn't understand cultural values. I mean, it's weird.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u131	Mr President! Yes, it has seemed to me that the City of Helsinki was quite active before that 2014 decision when the air operations were to be shut down there. This is the direction the train has wanted to take, and unfortunately this train has already reached. But although there has been a lot of understanding here about the continuation of Malmi and I have listened to the views of the SDP representatives in particular, because the SDP is a very important party in Helsinki, I am not quite sure how you are going to deal with this extension of Malmi Airport: do you want to continue the airport there, or do you think it is better not to continue? Could we have a clearer position on this now? It would be a very important and dramatic turn of events if the SDP now announced that they too wanted Malmi to continue its operations as before. This would be very welcome news because it would also change the situation in the city of Helsinki and this is exactly the kind of twist we want. But maybe
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u132	Mr President! I cannot now state the position of the SDP, but I can say that, in this debate, I too will come to the conclusion that, to some extent, we are beginning to feel that this is being adjusted for the debate on municipal elections, for the debate on municipal elections, for which we are talking proudly here, but then, when there is all the power — which is the power of the parties that are currently in the government of the country — nothing really is being done about it. The Centre Party, the Coalition Party, are sitting in this government, have been sitting for two years now, and we have heard today that none of these state activities are going to be maintained at Malmi, which has been decided to take away from it. And that is why it seems a little strange to ask what the SDP is doing when all the power is in this matter for the government whose largest party, centre, parliamentary group is led by Antti Kaikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u133	Mr President! All these decisions that led to the abolition of Malmi have been taken during the previous term of government — all taken during the previous term of government. As was said here, the government has tried to negotiate with Helsinki a different position, but the City of Helsinki has not changed its mind. And now it is essential that the City of Helsinki change its mind, and that is what I have appealed to, and many others here. I don't think the founders of Lex Malmi, the citizens' initiative, have been thinking about municipal elections, let alone that it's a downtown plot, that's not the point. The central position on behalf of Malmi has been for a long time, it has been for years, at least ten years, the same as it is at present. But I still did not hear the position of the SDP: do you want Malmi to be saved, or do you not?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u134	Mr President! Indeed, here Mr Kaikkonen asked for the views of the demars. I understand why Mrs Kaikkonen is asking this, because the only negative winds from this Chamber to this initiative have come from that direction, so this position is somewhat unclear. It is quite clear that the Finns of Finland defend Malmi Airport, have defended it last season, this season both in the Helsinki Council and in Parliament, and that line is quite clear. Remember, I'm not quite sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u135	One more response, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u136	Mr President! I am in favour of speaking here in the same way as what is being done in the government. When the government took this decision unanimously in 2014, there were very many parties in that government that are now talking about things quite differently from what they did then, and I do not think it is right or fair. Then I ask whether the government is doing something real in this matter, where regional decision-makers, in this case the City of Helsinki, could be confident that these mean that there is indeed a return to aviation operations at Malmi. It can't be a museum. It can't be a museum. It is clear that the Malmi Airport building itself will be preserved. It is obvious that it will not be dismantled, just as it is not Olavinlinna. Well, now there's no more ministers on the ground. So the government has used its own speech, which it is thinking of using, made such a vague promise, but then does not tell what it does in the activities that are in its decision-making power and which would be necessary,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u137	Mr President! As I said in my previous speech, now that we are discussing this issue in this forum,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u144	Mr President! It is interesting to listen to what Mr Viitanen and Mr Heinäluoma have to say when the government does not propose amendments. Do you think that the current government should change the decisions taken by the previous government? Last week there was another vote here on the same issue, and it was not allowed to change. Now, in this matter of Malmi Airport, the decision made by the last government should be changed. This is not a very coherent policy either. In his own speech, Mr Kari drew attention to the amount of support given to airports and Malmi Airport. It is indeed the case that there is a lively activity in the provinces, and we have five airports in Kymenlaakso, for example, which is a great deal. We have a very active hobby. In this connection, it must be mentioned that if the people of Helsinki do not understand how to maintain Malmi Airport, Pyhtää will already be able to make a new airport within an hour's drive and the operations will be transferred there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u145	Mr President! Yes, Mr Heinäluoma is now a little unreasonably accusing, as if it were not an active one. It has been more desired to see that Helsinki as an independent city would have understood what Finland as a whole wishes and what the majority of Helsinki residents would like Malmi to be preserved. It is not always the responsibility to put it on government or governments, but to trust that some kind of body language of this whole kingdom would have been passed on to the decision-makers in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u146	I have also made contributions to the representatives of Meri, Torniainen, Kari and Kiuru, and I see that Savolak asks and Räsänen, and at least at this point they will break up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u147	Mr President! We had the first hour or two of a rather pleasant one-way discussion, and it was said from the mouths of many, until then the SDP started this debate on whether there is a municipal election campaign going on here. As far as I am aware, there is a citizens' initiative going on here, and the SDP also included the question of whether the right of appeal is already here in the form of a decision. No, it's not. This is a citizens' initiative under the citizens' initiative law. You can bring it here if you get over 50,000 names. We have a duty to deal with it properly, unless it is inappropriate or contrary to good manners. This is a normal citizens' initiative. Then, here, the SDP called for unanimous decisions to be taken during the last term of government. Well, the Finns have not been in the government at the time. It is recalled that we have a first term of government and we have not been involved with certainty. We have opposed this dismantling of the field both in the municipalities and here, and we will continue along the same lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u148	Mr President! When this debate on the preservation of Malmi Airport has taken place, at the beginning I understood that here the hall is very unanimous in its preservation. But now it seems that the SDP's mind and position have changed and they will return to what they have decided in the last parliamentary term in the then government. It must be noted that the Centre last season opposed the closure of Malmi Airport. We were in favour of preserving it even then. When Mr Heinäluoma made the point here that the ministers are not present, it has to be said that three central ministers have also been involved in this debate and are in favour of maintaining Malmi Airport in its current operations. It's a big deal. As the Prime Minister also said, he and also the government have had discussions with the City of Helsinki about the fact that the City of Helsinki and the
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u149	Mr President! This representative colleague from downtown has just proved that the centre has been in favour of preserving Malmi for more than two years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u152	Mr President! In the budget reading, EUR 400000 was added to the Border Guard — that at least such a positive view was found there. Instead of mutual blame and a little purposeful recollection, it is perhaps the most important thing to internalize and understand the message that comes out of this citizens' initiative, which is the opinion of the public, what new perspectives have now crystallised and to move on from it. Helsing should be expected to be humble, to reconsider. If 1.5 per cent of Helsinki’s population were located in the Malmi region in 2050, it would be strange if it could not be resolved in another area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u153	Mr President! The will here has at least been shown by the desire to preserve Malmi Airport. The centre is in favour of it, the Finns are in favour of it. The SDP is now mostly clinging to the past, accusing of this
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u154	Mr President! I have to be a little surprised that the SDP is now being accused of this. That once this debate has been held here and the ministers have been consulted, Minister Berner quite unequivocally stated that nothing has been planned, not that the activities should be moved back. However, as I understand it, he is still a minister of the Central Party, and the Central Party, when it is the largest party in Finland here in Parliament at the moment, is now accused of not moving any activities. After all, it has to be seen that here the SDP defends local self-government, which is more or less built on the backbone of the downtown people, that too is wrong. Yes, all the different spectrals have been seen in this debate, [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u155	Mr President! This matter itself is extremely serious and essential. So it concerns the employment of hundreds of people, the interests of thousands of people, then it concerns our air transport and our airport network. It does not fit such a yo-yo line that you do something for a while, then something else that you don't really know what you're doing. That is why I have asked for it that is there a serious plan in this government to do things differently from what has been decided in 2014. I think this is a legitimate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u158	Mr President! The situation is that there is no longer the Border Guard or Finavia's operations there. It is enough to maintain this as an aerodrome, an airport for voluntary aviation enthusiasts. And as Minister Berner has said here, there is no plan to transfer activities there — okay, this is the case, but it is quite possible that it will serve an ever-increasing need on the amateur side. We must remember that it is the second busiest airport in Finland for landings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u159	Mr President! Malmi will probably be able to operate without these state functions, and I understand that the government will not be able to take new decisions to reinvest state functions in Malmi once the transactions have been concluded, the names are on paper and the whole area is going to Helsinki. Of course, until this changes, it cannot be thought that the state's activities will be invested there. If we can change this, then I'm sure it can come to this and hopefully it will. But Helsinki needs to change its position on this matter, then we can only move forward. If Helsinki is ready to cancel the deal, I'm sure the government will tell you right away that you got caught, you'll get the money back, and the whole thing's in the bag. The City of Helsinki's position here needs to be changed, and that is why it is very important that the position in the City of Helsinki changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u160	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u161	Mr President! My speech is not long, but when it is the first of my current term of office, I would like to speak solemnly about this toilet. I would like to say from the outset that, like the parliamentary group in the centre, I certainly support the maintenance of Malmi Airport, and I would have liked to have taken part in this colorful debate, but when I was next on the list of speakers, I waited. I find it somewhat repugnant if there is so much political pecking about this. Now we should talk in this Chamber about what will be done with Malmi in the future. The debate has dealt very well with the various reasons why Malmi should continue to operate, especially from the aviation point of view, and, as has been said, this initiative, together with its justification, is very well done. Malmi Airport has a truly versatile and growing role for a new kind of aviation activity, which cannot be replaced by, for example, Helsinki Airport's large-scale transport station. This really is a national matter, this is a Malmi issue. It has also been said in this debate that the European trend is precisely the strengthening of urban areas for local and small transport. Take Bromma in Stockholm or City Airport in London. In the future, Malmi could better serve not only the needs of Helsinki but also the needs of the entire economy of the country. As far as this alternative use of housing is concerned, it has been found that 95% of Helsinki’s land area is not built, and if parks and similar areas are removed, 85% are not built. There's a lot of building blocks. What is the rage to visit the parks and green areas of Helsinki to destroy? I understand that the ground floor at Malmi Airport is also very difficult for housing construction, and if it is built it would be very expensive. But in addition to these important arguments, I would like to add my voice to those that have highlighted the cultural, recreational and well-being values of the region of Malmi. The field area is also an important green area for citizens. The area has a very diverse and valuable nature, plants and birds. The nature path is very popular and provides a good opportunity to get in touch with biodiversity, which has not only refreshing but also health effects, as new allergy studies have shown, for example. The route around the field is popular for outdoor activities and healthy exercise. Mr President! I would therefore like to express my support for the retention of Malmi Airport as an aerodrome under the Aviation Act, as the majority of Helsinkiers seem to hope, and for the continuation of Malmi to be secured. When you listen to this debate in this Chamber, it does not seem that anyone is really against it. The committee can therefore consider the administrative arrangements that are needed and the question of how to promote agreement between the state and the city on these matters, to which the Prime Minister referred. I would like to remind you once again that this Maintaining Malmi Airport would be important not only for aviation, which is important and which has been mentioned a lot here, but also for the health and well-being of citizens. Parks and green areas should not be cut in Helsinki or elsewhere in the country, but rather increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u162	Mr President! Thank you again for taking the initiative. It's a pleasure to watch this. This is just as good as the government's proposals, and there are impact assessments here too, they are often read by the government, and here they are found. When we start thinking about this whole initiative, we have had very good speeches here, and it is good to see that Malmi supports the growth of commercial air traffic and therefore the ambition of Finland as a whole. Helsinki Airport focuses on air traffic between Europe and Asia. The conditions for a congested airport to serve fast-growing scheduled traffic are deteriorating year by year. Malmi Airport offers an efficient and cost-effective alternative to scheduled air traffic, such as business flight, and regional route traffic. Malmi Airport can serve both national and international air transport. The capacity offered by Malmi Airport for commercial aircraft, short distance scheduled aircraft and helicopter traffic will also allow Helsinki Airport to grow in the future. As has already been said a few times, Malmi Airport is the second busiest airport in Finland, measured by the number of landings, and the main hub of flight training. Malmi Airport serves both the reachability of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and flight connections to the regions. In addition, it makes it possible to engage in poorly-suited unmanned aviation activities, which serve the needs of logistics as well as the needs of the authorities. The EU has also taken a stand in favour of the preservation of urban and general aviation airports in the European Parliament's resolution 3. The President It has been found that general and commercial aviation are the fastest growing sectors of civil aviation in Europe and are complementary to commercial air transport, thus providing specific social and economic benefits by increasing the opportunities for citizens to move, business and territorial cohesion. The adequacy of airport capacity is also a strategic concern of the EU. It has also been stated here that within a 150 km radius of Helsinki there is no airport serving air transport other than Helsinki-Malmi Airport. Decision-makers must have sufficient information and statistics at their disposal on general and business aviation to fully understand and regulate the aviation sector. In my earlier speech, I mentioned that alternatives were sought for this recreational aviation at Malmi Airport through the study of the Ministry of Transport and Communications in 2014, including Nummela and Hyvinkää. To Hyvinkää, where I come from, it could not be transferred for many different reasons, such as environmental reasons. It is a groundwater area and there are no conditions for such a site. And also the location of the airport that is now in the vicinity of the capital region is not transferable To Hyvinkää or Nummela. There has also been talk here that this is a valuable cultural environment. Malmi Airport, together with funk objects built in the 30th century, such as Olympic Stadium and Lasipalatsi, constitutes a unique architectural entity on a world scale with an incalculable cultural historical value. By decision of the Government, Malmi has been listed as a functioning airport as a nationally significant cultural environment. There has also been talk of air safety and security of supply. Maintaining Helsinki-Malmi Airport in aviation use improves security of supply in the Helsinki region. It can also serve as a back-up field for some of the equipment operating at Helsinki Airport. In 1986, domestic scheduled services were flown from Helsinki-Malmi airport for several weeks during the official strike that closed Helsinki Airport. The Border Guard also uses Malmi and does not fit in Helsinki Airport. It has also served as a base for various projects. The City of Helsinki explained, commissioned a study on what construction would cost. Soil studies showed that housing construction would require impalement up to 29 meters [29 m] in depth. Building would then be very expensive. I am therefore in favour of this citizens' initiative and I hope that we will find some solution here. The City of Helsinki has the key to this solution, as has been said here in several speeches. This is not a municipal election policy, even though some people here are trying to twist it. I think it is somewhat disparaging towards these citizens' initiative makers. They have been concerned about this matter, like many citizens, and we should deal with it with dignity and not ourselves to talk about municipal elections, even though they are at the door, and if one of them feels that the municipal heat is rising to the head, it does not mean that everyone else is getting involved in it. Still, many people know how to handle things consistently. I think that Mr Turunen said well when he talked about municipal self-determination here, that we would certainly all intervene if the town of Savonlinna really started dismantling Olavinlinna. We would certainly intervene here, and we would not think that it does not matter, let municipal politicians do so there. The Finns have consistently supported this, they will, and hopefully there will be a solution for this. When we are at least so united here, I hope that all those who can influence the Helsinki delegates will do so. This is what we have done in our group, and the basic Finns of the City of Helsinki have consistently opposed the abolition of this field. Thanks to the people who took the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u163	Mr President! I have to say to the previous speaker that don't worry about it, not one municipality will leave. To dismantle Olavinlinna, no municipality, including the City of Helsinki, will leave Malmi Airport to dismantle. That can be quite unconcerned in this debate. Perhaps it is also possible to comment in that way that I believe that this is now somewhat related to future municipal elections, because at least I have given myself the impression that today's decision-makers in the City of Helsinki will hardly change their position on this. It is probably now a certain goal to have municipal decision-makers in the City Council of Helsinki who would think differently about this. Mr President! This debate has gone through this important whole with great openness and merit, both the Malmi Airport itself and the air transport sector and the wider aviation industry, and has addressed the cultural historical value of this region. I myself did not think about going through these things in my own speech, but rather about what this proper marching order would be. The fact is that this story dates back to 2014, when the state made its own decision to move its operations away from Malmi Airport, and in this context the City of Helsinki agreed with the City of Helsinki that the city of Helsinki would then take this area and it would come for housing, and this is what the City of Helsinki has made these decisions in its own planning decisions. Well, as you can imagine, these formula decisions have given rise to a lot of debate in the city of Helsinki, and that is certainly what this citizens' initiative is coming from, at least in part, and now we are discussing these issues here in Parliament's plenary session. In the course of this plenary session, it has been very symbolic that, when asked whether the State is now planning to return to Malmi, which it has withdrawn from it on the basis of the previous decision, there is no such plan. Well, in this situation, the marching order is pretty clear. As I understand it, the state can try to negotiate with the City of Helsinki a replacement area and a change of land. The City of Helsinki has not agreed to this, so decision-making now rests quite a bit in the hands of the City of Helsinki and in the hands of the City of Helsinki decision-makers. The municipal elections are now on the way, and this can be addressed through the elections. But if the City of Helsinki does not change its own decision, it is probably quite clear that we will continue to do so as previously decided. Mr President! Then I have a few comments to make about the fact that we are now trying to address this issue with a citizens' initiative. This is, of course, a formula decision which we now wish to appeal to the Parliament to adopt a separate law to impose this area for another use. I am probably not the only one who has noted the comments made by the legal scholars in relation to this, that there is talk of a rather exceptional measure that the state would go through with a separate law to regulate something that goes beyond the municipal self-government and the municipal formula monopoly. That's extraordinary. And then everyone can think that if this were actually done, what Pandora's box would it open: would it be so in the future that every decision taken by a municipality — when the surest way of seeking justice is no longer to appeal to a court of law where legal scholars go through the matter — would be taken up with a citizens' initiative and then apply for a separate law from Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u169	Mr President! I would like to start by thanking you for the activity that has also been required to implement this citizens' initiative. We must also praise the initiative, because it is really very carefully prepared. And I would like to say that this citizens' initiative must receive a careful, good and sufficiently wide consultation of experts in the Committee on Transport, where I also have an influence. I would also like to thank Minister Berner for his good history on this point. History is still quite recent, as we heard. Mr President! Aviation activities must be made possible and the areas of activity that are important to them secured. I think this is unambiguous. Equally unambiguous in my view is respect for the right to self-control in the municipal community. The Finnish Government has decided in 2014 that it will transfer its operations from Malmi Airport and that the City of Helsinki will decide on the use of Malmi Airport. Of course, it is the responsibility of the City of Helsinki’s decision-makers to decide how it manages the use of its regions through its planning. We know that the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki have decided to use the area for housing production. The target is 25,000 affordable new apartments. I also understand very well that those who are disappointed in this decision want to seek any change to this decision, and yes, the citizens' initiative as such is a perfectly useful way of doing so. A large number of citizens have signed the initiative. The Finnish Government now has to decide whether it will remain in the decisions taken or whether it will be prepared to repeal the decisions taken. Today history has already been made in the history of citizens' initiatives. No other citizens' initiative has immediately received such strong support from the Prime Minister in a referral debate. The Prime Minister stated that the state had made a mistake and promised to use all the means available to correct the error. The government will therefore have to decide on a number of issues, such as whether it will take the decision from Helsinki, whether it will transfer its operations back to Malmi Airport and, if the initiative is implemented, who will act as a future operator at Malmi Airport. Will this citizens' initiative be a precedent in which the government, as it were, walks over the municipal decision-making power? Answers to these questions must be sought, and then government proposals are needed. Simply put, the Finnish Government has transferred power to the City of Helsinki. The city has maintained its democratic position. The Finnish Government must therefore decide whether to take the power away. It is now in the hands of the government, and it is, of course, worth the question if the government wants a radical change, why, for two years now, has the government not taken any further steps to withdraw existing decisions. I look forward to the government's answers and proposals. The truth is that if the government had made withdrawal proposals in the last two years, in line with today's proven position, the entire citizens' initiative would not have been needed. It is the responsibility of the City of Helsinki to decide on the use of its areas, as I have said many times, but it is equally the responsibility of the City of Helsinki to support functional leisure opportunities and to demonstrate an appropriate environment for them. I would like to go back to the beginning and say that the citizens' initiative, Lex Malmi, needs and deserves an objective, careful and adequate discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u170	President! With regard to the two previous speeches, I would just like to say that this: Malmi's case isn't just any ordinary formula decision. This is an important national issue, as has been proven in many ways here, and I therefore think it is very good that instead of playing ball, we are now taking the initiative seriously to find out what can be done to secure Malmi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u171	Mr President! That is what we now have to say when the previous speech stated that the government has not done anything for two years to bring this matter to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u175	Mr President! This Lex Malmi citizens' initiative has been discussed here and has already given rise to a lively debate today. It is an extremely important matter, and the importance of this issue is not only here for people from Helsinki, for users from Helsinki, but for the whole of Finland, and that is why it has certainly been so widely addressed here. With regard to this significance, when you start with these local values here, in addition to being used in aviation, all this other ancillary activities, cultural history, environmental values and, through it, the recreational use of the residents of Malmi Airport to which the area has been used are extremely important, and it is also very strong in favour of the fact that this airport area over there must be preserved. In the background here are the bad decisions that have been taken during the previous parliamentary term to abandon this traffic use and the town of Helsinki's planning decisions to bring this residential area there. When I came from a less populated rural area, I wonder if there would be no better areas for residential building in Helsinki or elsewhere in Finland than that area of Malmi Airport, and when I have looked down on Helsinki myself several times from the plane, that forest seems to be enough and the area of living here is sufficient. A few years ago, the Sipoo area was transferred to Helsinki as an area specifically suitable for residential use. Just as Minister Tiilikainen has said here, Raide-Joker has been built specifically to facilitate residential building. In other words, there are quite a lot more possibilities here than just this area of Malmi, and that is why we now see the dramatic damage that would be happening to the whole thing if this were to happen to the end that Malmi Airport would cease in the sense that it is at present. Mr. Speaker! In fact, there has been a great deal of contact between the airmen, and this is a central field in Helsinki from those regions to come to Helsinki for amateurs. With regard to international flying, business flying, taxi flying, there is also a lot of future in this field if we want to give it that future. Flight instruction is being arranged in that field. Now we have to look specifically to the future in this matter and think about the possibilities at Malmi Airport, and not just the threats and obstacles that have now been experienced, mainly in this area of planning and housing, particularly here in Helsinki. That is why this wisdom is now to be hoped for in the decision-making process in Helsinki, and it is quite right that this has been brought to us in the form of a citizens' initiative for parliamentary consideration. Mr. Speaker! These closures of airports were not very rare in the last period. In southern Ostrobothnia, it was decided to lock up Kauhava Airport with the abolition of the Air Force School for the purpose of the Air Force School. There was a field there, and there is an infrastructure, and there is still very much technology, and there is certainly a need for this field. As southern Ostrobothnia is also considered as a province and its operations, internationalism is increasing and has already increased. A medical helicopter is planned for the hospital, and it needs a base, a maintenance station, and so on. In other words, on behalf of these fasiliities, but also on behalf of the need for use, Kauhava Airport could be opened up at any time. That is why this comprehensive study of aviation in Finland, the future of air transport — which is the best way to carry out cost-effective training, the future of these business flights, the future of leisure aviation — came about in order to take a look at this whole. A comprehensive analysis of these should be carried out. Now this aviation is very compartmentalized with us when it comes to raising these issues. The Air Force operates under the Defence Forces, under the Ministry of Transport and Communications is part of the decision-making process, under the Ministry of Education and Culture is part of the decision-making process. This comprehensive study would provide a framework for seeing where things should be organised, and I believe that, within this framework, the future of Malmi Airport would be secured as well as the future of these provincial airports, such as Kauhava Airport, could be shown that it exists and should be opened up again. To the authors of this Lex Malmi, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the fact that this initiative has been taken here and brought to our attention. It will be properly dealt with by the committees and, as has already been said here, at least two main government parties are united behind it at this stage. Now the great work is that once this has been dealt with, the negotiations with the City of Helsinki’s decision-makers will continue and, for example, this land exchange agreement between the state and the City of Helsinki will be possible. I'm sure that's important and our will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u176	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on the debate on the citizens' initiative by saying that the initiative before us is an example of what good this system can do. The citizens have prepared an excellent and well-founded legislative initiative on a matter of profound concern to them. Thank you to the authors of the initiative! Then the content itself. Minister of Transport Merja of the previous government Kyllönen once angered the air enthusiasts by saying that in the case of Malmi Airport it was a hobby of a few dozen people and an affordable living together. In reality, we are talking about hundreds of amateurs and thousands of members of aviation clubs. In addition, Helsinki is full of unbuilt land. Mari Votovaara, professor of urban geography, estimates that only 5% of Helsinki's surface area is covered by buildings. Furthermore, when these parks and similar areas are removed, 85% of the unbuilt area remains. The issues that concern me most in the fate of Malmi are security of supply, risk tolerance and safety aspects. The main air base of the Border Guard has already been transferred from Malmi to a commercially busy Helsinki Airport. In addition to the urgent action of the Border Guard to create uplifting situations for commercial flights, the flight time of offshore operations has increased by a few minutes. In that greatest crisis, those few minutes are long, sometimes very crucial. In addition to the Border Guard, Malmi has served as the main operating base of the Helsinki Rescue Department and as a base for the police helicopter. Malmi Airport is the only emergency landing and crisis time field in Finland's most important area, within the capital. Discontinuation of use of Helsinki Airport or traffic connections to Helsinki Airport in unexpected situations or in exceptional circumstances, for example as a result of an accident or strike, would paralyse air traffic in the entire metropolitan area. Under wartime conditions, military aircraft, such as fighters, can be operated from the field if necessary. In addition, the Finnish Defence Forces have used Malmi Airport for joint exercises involving special forces and helicopters. Mr President! Maintaining Malmi Airport is not just a matter for the capital region. As a representative of the Häme province itself, I see Malmi as an extremely important hub between Häme and Helsinki as well as between the other provinces and the capital. The freedom of timetable at Malmi Airport enables flexible small aircraft connections to the capital and from there to abroad. Centralisation of air traffic in the entire Helsinki region at Helsinki Airport reduces the flexibility of passenger traffic and at the same time hampers flight tasks related to rescue, search, hospital transport and other safety activities. The starting speed from Malmi is much better in an emergency, and it is often a matter of minutes or even seconds. With these arguments, I am in favour of maintaining Malmi in its current activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u177	Mr President! Less than three years ago, the Board of Directors of Jyrki Katainen decided that the state would withdraw from Helsinki-Malmi Airport by 2016 and will then leave Finavia's network. In November of the same year, the City Council of Helsinki decided to purchase from Finavia the real estate of Malmi Airport and the land owned by Finavia and to take control of the airport from the beginning of 2017. Fortunately, at the end of last year, the Helsinki Real Estate Board decided to rent an area in Malmi Airport to Malmi Airport Association for the purpose of maintaining an unsupervised aerodrome for leisure and general aviation operations. Now this citizens' initiative comes at the right time and I support it. This debate called for operations removed from Malmi Airport to be returned to the airport. It would certainly be good if that were to happen, but it is noteworthy that the volume of operations transferred from there is only about 15 per cent of the volume of traffic in the airport, i.e. this volume can be patched up through the operation of increased air activity. As far as the future is concerned, I can see that Malmi Airport will serve recreational aviation in Finland as a propeller, transport jet and helicopter field. There are many companies and amateurs in the provinces who want to come to the capital region with their own machines. And as has been said in many speeches, this is the second busiest field in Finland, where tens, hundreds of millions have been placed in previous years, and it is so affordable in location that no substitute field can be found at such an affordable location as:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u178	Mr President! Shows a very good civic interest that the citizens' initiative to preserve Malmi Airport has now been brought before Parliament. Indeed, the possible abolition of Malmi Airport is not just an internal issue in the capital region, although it has sometimes been discussed in public as such — fortunately not in this plenary. True Finns have been united in maintaining the airport, and according to an opinion poll, only 13 per cent of residents in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area want housing to replace the airport. Contacts for maintaining the airport have also come from other parts of Finland. European air transport is on the rise and is expected to continue for decades to come. Malmi Airport is a very important general aviation aerodrome, and as private business aviation increases in the field, it is essential for Finland’s accessibility. One important argument is to guarantee security of supply and defence issues more generally, and their importance is particularly highlighted in the exceptional circumstances that Mr Ronkainen has dealt with with with with merit. Malmi Airport also serves not only the residents of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, but all small aviation and therefore aviation enthusiasts throughout the country. Since the field directly and indirectly provides more than 600 jobs, the significant employment impact of the field activities should also be taken into account when the final decision is taken. And in other respects, the impact of the field on the whole of Finland's business life is significant, and there is no reason to underestimate the importance of the field in terms of the competence and development of aviation. Of course, the population growth in the metropolitan area is putting pressure on further construction and the introduction of new areas, but it would be very shortsighted to abolish Malmi Airport on this basis in our sparsely populated country. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u179	Mr President! I would like to begin by emphasising the historical and cultural value of Malmi Airport. Helsinki-Malmi Airport, which has been preserved in its original use, is also a very significant cultural environment built nationally and internationally. It is the first airport in the capital region and served as an important military airport in the defence of Helsinki during the war. The field also has considerable natural values and serves as a recreation area for people living in the area. In addition, it is important for security of supply and security in Helsinki. In this context, it is good to bear in mind that aviation is becoming increasingly important in Europe, but the number of airports in Finland seems to be decreasing. There's a contradiction. The fact that Malmi Airport cannot be designated as a substitute for the Helsinki Metropolitan Area also makes it problematic to stop operating at the airport. In addition to operations, a large number of jobs would be lost along the field. When a significant number of flight instructors operate part-time, the future of aviation training for the whole country is threatened. Part-time flight instructors are hardly going to train new pilots hundreds of miles away. As part of the Finnish aviation infrastructure, it plays an indispensable role as the only link suitable for general aviation traffic between the capital and the rest of Finland. The airport therefore serves not only the inhabitants of the SME region, but all small-scale aviation and therefore aviation enthusiasts throughout Finland. Mr President! Housing production around Helsinki must be increased, that is clear. There are other areas in Helsinki where housing can be built. The field area is very watery, which came up when the field was built. So the area is suitable for the construction of large residential buildings? In addition, public transport between Malmi Airport and the rest of Helsinki is limited and currently does not meet the requirements for the number of public transport in the settlements. Citizens have been active in the preservation of Malmi Airport, as evidenced by a strong and thorough opinion and opinion in the form of a citizens' initiative — thanks to those who took the initiative. The Finns of Finland, both in the City Council of Helsinki and in the Parliamentary Group, are strongly supporting the Lex Malmi citizens' initiative. In the light of the debate that has taken place today in this Chamber, you would think that Malmi Airport will continue to exist in the future, but apparently there have been no voices spoken by the opponents — they have not been there if there are any. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u180	Mr President! I would not like to comment directly on Lex Malmi in this speech, but, with your permission, Mr President, I would like to consider the need for the development of the institution of citizens' initiatives. After all, at a general level, the citizens' initiative institution has worked well and thus the public's influence has improved even further. Even society has already been transformed by this new institution: without the citizens' initiative adopted in the last period, next Wednesday we would not introduce an updated law on marriage. On the other hand, Mr President, as with other institutions, I believe that a few years of experience with the citizens' initiative has given rise to a healthy debate on the development of this institution. The Lex Malmi we are discussing today has been one of the creators of this debate. In my view, it is quite right to discuss whether the citizens' initiative, as an institution, is the right place to pursue local issues, in this case the internal question of one city. In other words, should the criteria for citizens' initiatives be changed and tightened up in this regard? A second, bigger debate is certainly needed on the status of so-called counter-initiatives. Today, yesterday in this Chamber, we finally overturned an initiative aimed at overturning the citizens' initiative adopted by the previous Parliament. How to deal with these in general terms is a question on which it would be useful to seek a common view in parliamentary terms. A third, perhaps even an eternity debate, relates to whether the number of signatures required for the citizens' initiative should be increased from the current 50,000 to 100,000, for example. Here too, wide-ranging parliamentary reflection could be appropriate, and I hope that these will also be achieved during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u181	Värderade Herr Talman! Som min colleague ledamot Löfström koh tidigare constaterade stöder svenska riksdagsgruppen strävandena att bevara Malms flygplats, och som man i det ox originalt constaterar har flygplatsen nog en nationalell betydelse för luftfarten i Finland och flygplatsens roll som landningsplats för mindre affärsflyg har under senare tid bara ökat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u182	Mr President! Thank you first of all for the citizens' initiative: a truly well-managed citizens' initiative base, with all its environmental assessments and also its cultural and related history. In other words, with regard to Malmi Airport's aerodrome, it has been very active for a long time, until now it has been emptied by the State in these areas, but this recreational aviation still works strongly there. It would be very sad if Malmi Airport were closed down and turned into a housing area. Even for a residential area, it is a little inconvenient because of these soft soils, and it would also be unduly expensive. Helsinki usually sells these items to us provincial people, so that these are national destinations, when it comes to museums, libraries and other things that are built here, but this, if anything, is also a national destination, which can be moved from international airports to Finland. But I can see that at the heart of the whole is this development of regional airports. In other words, accessibility must be viewed in both directions, from here to the province and from the province to here, as has been mentioned in several speeches about how, for example, private machines in our business life can come to Helsinki and vice versa. Taxi transport — the so-called 'city-field advantage' here. The electronic planes are on their way. And many other things will change this air transport in the future. This is also active in other activities, amateur aviation centre operations. And probably from such a place this close to the city can no longer be built, so this proximity of the city is very important. We have some similar plans in Mänttä-Vilppula. We have a Sassi field in Mänttä, which is now owned by the city. It is built in, and there is zoning — you can visit the Internet to see even if the words "The Sassi Field" are the formulas of it — that it is created in such an oarpark that you can come by plane there, enjoy your own cottage and then go from the beach directly to the fish or come to the water level there. In other words, these destinations are being developed elsewhere in Finland, but these destinations need this from our capital hub’s hobby aviation side as well. And somehow I would see that here too, if something were to be built, there would be this type of activity perhaps, which would then be linked to this aviation activity. This has a big part to play in this tourism itself, but I say that tourism also affects this economy, that is, how Helsinki attracts us and how we get to Helsinki. One other area of activity that our town of Mänttä-Vilppula has is museums. For example, how do we get from Helsinki or elsewhere to there and from there to here again? So Lex Malmi is a good performance, and I support it, like the whole Central Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u183	Mr President! However, what I have just said clearly did not serve as a catalyst for the debate. But when there is indeed a representative Strand next to me who is currently chairing the Vaasa Council, if a similar case were to come to Vaasa, for example, in such a way that Vaasa would plan a particular area and there would be a decision to build residential houses and then there would be a citizens' initiative, which would then be discussed here, and it would be so that the state would start to expropriate this area from Vaasa, I would really like to ask what kind of feelings would arise there in relation to this kind of thing. That, quite contradictoryly, we are now going ahead of just one area, and here the role of the State is being questioned quite a bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u184	Mr President! Thank you for the question. It depends, of course, on how it would be viewed, but normally outside advice is not so much needed. And if we are talking about state control and the kind of intervention in municipal activities, if you leave the creation of value itself, it does bother us that, in certain laws, we are now being banned from developing our own money, the money we bring into the country itself, for example, special medical care at a level that is part of a globally competing ecosystem that can be viewed on many different sides. Perhaps it also reflects how bad we are in this house to consider the economic dynamic effects. Even now we are talking about Helsinki, even though it is air transport, if something is trans-national and is strongly linked to trade. There will probably be plenty of head offices and offices here in Helsinki in the future if there is business elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u185	Mr President! Mr Wallinheimo challenges us to discuss this system of citizens' initiatives, and I agree with him very much that we should look at it. Let us now take this equal marriage law and the flexibilities associated with it, that there will be initiatives and counter-initiatives and will probably still be. Are these citizens' initiatives, it is said, the number of writings — now in 50,000 — too low when we parliamentarians — if we count the number of MPs, 100 MPs, about 5,000 votes per citizen — are required to support half a million people in this legislative initiative of our Parliament that we can get it even somewhere forward? The threshold must be considered and then the way in which this citizens' initiative operates. But this project and many others: I have recently voted in favour of these citizens' initiatives. As a system it is good, but it is good to refine it and see that there should not be such ping pong games in this area of our legislation. It is not good legislation again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u186	Mr President! I just saw how Mr Pirttila explained this. I think that we need the chairmen of the parliamentary groups or some sort of parliamentary assembly now quickly, or perhaps even the Council of Presidents could raise this issue. This institution should now be dealt with in a good way, because this is a good new form. On the other hand, at the moment, I feel that we are already going to a little bit of a lilukansel, although I also think that this citizens' initiative is a good citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-23-ps-12.u187	Värderade Herr Talman! Helt kort bara vad gäller det ox medborgarinitiativet. Jag håller själv med både kollegerna Pirttilahti och Wallinheimo om att det inte får bli en pingpongeffekt. Å andra sidan är det bra att det nu finns den raus vägen för medborgarna. Om man drunker sig riktigt djupt kränkt över någonting så är det ändå en väg att ta.
