ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2017 vp of the Audit Committee. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 February 2017. In the debate, Johanna Ojala-Niemela, supported by Paavo Arhinmäki, has tabled a motion of censure against Minister Anne Berner. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u2	Finally, a motion of censure must be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u3	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u4	Mr President! So this is about the military security missions. Propose amendments to the Defence Forces Act and add provisions on the Defence Forces' security tasks. Security tasks are, after all, the protection of the safety of persons in need of special protection and the integrity of the movement of special assets of the Defence Forces, who are staff of the Defence Forces, and also those of foreign states that are foreign to the Defence Forces, and representatives of international organisations. We have had a significant change in the threat situation. The Committee on Defence dealt with this issue, and now the aim is to extend this right beyond these areas of the Defence Forces. In other words, it would no longer be necessary to apply for such permission from the police separately for these measures, but the Defence Forces would be able to take care of them without a request for assistance. President! This will make the situation much easier and easier, and the committee felt that the proposal was necessary and appropriate. Police resources were also at the heart of this. We pointed out that our police resources are currently undersized in terms of tasks. The European average is one police officer per 400 inhabitants. In Finland, the ratio is currently one fair per 700 Finns. That's why it makes sense now to release policemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u5	Mr President! This amendment of the law is justified by itself, i.e. changes in the security of the Defence Forces are to be welcomed and it is difficult to see anything that would prevent the adoption of the law. At the same time, however, it is necessary to raise the issue of how the Defence Forces comply with existing legislation in general. This has been a rather worrying debate in recent days and weeks. It has become apparent that in one case the Defence Forces have started to anticipate legislative changes in recruitment cases in the training of conscripts, and it has also been said that possibly in the recruitment of permanent staff. This relates to this debate on dual citizenship. It is important that matters are clarified, but it is equally important that all Finns should be able to rely in absolute terms on the Defence Forces to act in accordance with current legislation and civil rights are respected. I drew attention to the fact that, according to the report of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, Kouvola had gone so far that the kitchen staff could not work if there was a double citizen. When it is known that we also have dual citizens in the country's government, it tells me that there is no reason in any way to cast doubt on the basis of dual citizenship on the people's desire to serve Finland and the Finnish State. This is particularly true after people have been tempted to take dual citizenship and Finnish passports — as well as Finns who are abroad, but also those who are here and who have originally been citizens of another country. In other words, the fact that the Defence Forces comply with existing legislation is a very important issue and I hope that the whole of Parliament will be able to be clearly informed in this respect about how to deal with public opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u6	Mr President! There is much in the debate that relates to the Defence Forces, the needs at the moment and the future. However, I believe that this was the clearest point in the committee debate, in which I myself was involved. There were no bigger political passions or other passions here, but it was said that it was sensible to clarify the legislation in this regard, and the Defence Forces could be more flexible and more flexible in various security tasks. This is actually a rationalisation of action if you think about our entire network of authorities. The police, with their limited resources, can focus more on the tasks in which they need to be done, and the staff of the Defence Forces can then be used as presented in this bill. It is a good thing that this issue is brought forward in a rather quick way from Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u7	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma slightly expanded this discussion. When the President also seemed to allow it, I will continue with this issue of dual citizenship. I welcome the fact that Mr Niinistö has said that we are now dealing with these situations where there may have been a violation of the law, and this is, of course, the way to proceed, that we first find out and then take action if it does. All in all, however, this dual citizenship debate is not new in any way. This was already raised in many respects during the previous government from the point of view of the tasks of certain key Defence Forces, the Border Guard, perhaps also the ministries. If I have understood correctly, problems could arise in another country, for example, if this type of task were to be very high in the Finnish Defence Forces and then go to Russia, for example, which would be another country with a passport. This could be the problem of a Finnish citizen suddenly being arrested in that country because of loyalty issues, when he has played such key roles in the defence forces of another country. It is good that we ensure that through the legislation there is a need for reform so that every Finnish citizen's position is secured both in Finland and when travelling to another country, for example, or any other country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u8	I would like to point out here that this government proposal relates, however, to the tasks of security of the Defence Forces, which is also close to what has been mentioned in the debate so far. To this extent, therefore, I will allow the case to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u9	Mr President! This issue of dual nationality and, in particular, of the performance of certain security-related duties is certainly an important issue to clarify, although it is not directly part of this bill. But there are indeed practical needs for this reform of the law, and I personally consider this acceptable. From the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior and the police administration, this has been accompanied by certain sensitivity. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also dealt with this in detail and, in particular, in previous opinions, it has considered that the provision of the same powers to the other authority as those at the disposal of the police may not be compatible with the requirement to restrict fundamental rights. However, in this context this has been considered acceptable under these framework conditions, but at the same time it must be stressed that these powers of the various authorities should be seen separately. In other words, the police are explicitly the most important and leading authority in public order and security and crime prevention, including in times of crisis, on the one hand, the Defence Forces are primarily responsible for military defence and, on the other hand, the Border Guard is responsible for border security. It is therefore important to examine the interfaces of these different powers that the committee has attached to this proposal when it requires this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u10	Mr President! Now that we also allow a debate on this very important issue, namely dual citizenship, I would like to point out, for my part, that it has been a somewhat confusing debate around it — precisely what Mr Heinäluoto pointed out — that legislative changes may have begun to be interpreted in advance. Of course, then, there is certainly reason to be well aware of what the rules of the game are. That is why I would like to underline and, in fact, emphasise what Mr Heinäluoma concluded in his own speech, which is why I think it is very important that Parliament as a whole should be clearly informed about what is going on and how to deal with this. All in all, it is important that there should also be clear lines of action on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u11	Mr President! The question of dual citizenship and that public debate, Minister of Defence Niinistö, does not get clean papers. He accused the public radio of being almost fake media and denied everything first. After that, the Defence Forces themselves cleared up, and they discovered that these problems existed. On the other hand, if the positive side is sought, there is no crisis situation, but even if the crisis communication was not successful from the Defence Forces in this case, perhaps it will be learned for a possible but not desirable crisis situation. Mr President! This is a very important and important issue in the sense that it is extremely important that the Defence Forces and, on the other hand, the police comply exactly with the law. Unfortunately, we have experience around the world that the defence forces of a country are moving from the fact that they do not have to comply with their law, and they take the law into their own hands. That is why these actors, who have official responsibilities and who have responsibility for our security, must be the most precise in terms of compliance with the legislation. It is good that we are now going to look at what guidelines have been given and whether there has been a violation of the law in the Defence Forces with regard to dual citizens. As far as the issue of dual citizenship is concerned, I personally consider it problematic if, on the basis of being a nationality of another country, you start to see whether you are qualified or not qualified for a task or loyalty. That is why I understand that safety-related tasks carry out these safety studies and check whether the individual is suitable for specific tasks. It cannot be thought that whole groups of people are, in a way, disloyal just because of their background and their desire to preserve
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u12	Mr President! This is the actual part of the matter, in connection with this task of protection. [The President : Please! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u13	Mr President! On this issue of dual citizenship, Mr Arhinmäki rightly stressed that the Defence Forces, the police and all the authorities must respect the law scrupulously. On the other hand, it is also the case that Western and Finnish tradition includes pacta sunt servanda, ‘contracts must be respected’, and we now need very unambiguous guidelines and practices on this. A situation must not arise where, for example, a soldier would be in a situation where he would have to apply or monitor the agreement if the terms of the agreement stated that this agreement should not be made known to a third-country national. There is a line here that is given or not given, and the Defence Forces, for example, make agreements, and that information must not be given outside the Finns, and that is, for example, an extremely unsustainable situation for an officer. It is also an extremely unsustainable situation for the Defence Forces. That is why we need to put this issue in a sustainable, understandable and acceptable position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may be more specific, I would like to say that, insofar as the debate on dual citizenship is taking place — which is permitted here — it would be desirable in some way to take a look at the substance of this proposal, which is linked to this task of protection, as Mr Kari has just said before. — — — — Congressman Mäkipää.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u15	Mr President! I made a slightly broader speech on this at first reading, but I would like to emphasise that there are about 50 different security tasks per year and then 200 specific transport tasks. Some 50 of these people are now being trained and security training is being carried out in very close cooperation with the police and the defence administration. This is to ensure that they have the capacity to do so. As has been emphasised here, the committee considers it important that a statement was made that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence should report to Parliament by the end of 2018 on the success of these regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u16	Mr President! Mr Kari drew attention to the fact that this period of follow-up is rather short in this effort, and it is quite true. However, it is perhaps a good thing that this is also being looked at in a short tendon. I welcome the fact that both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior report to Parliament, because this is now the sensitive question with regard to this law — it concerns precisely the division of duties between the various authorities with very different roles, namely the Defence Forces and the police. What bothers me a little in this regard is that the central argument in this report, too, is the insufficient resources of the police. In other words, this report states that 'the change in the Finnish security environment, combined with the already inadequate resources of the police, is in favour of giving the Defence Forces greater responsibility for protecting their own personnel and foreign and defence equipment transfers'. It is understandable that practical needs are linked to: The Defence Forces are taking greater responsibility for these security tasks in practice, but at the same time I find it problematic that these scarce police resources are being led to this. I hope that this will not become, as it were, a cycle of the actual tasks of the various authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u17	Mr President! I would specifically like to point out that we are already living in times where there are not enough patrols on weekends, not even in cities. It is problematic, it will be problematic, and something must be done. Yes, making a report is a good thing, although it is a short time. But what I would particularly like to mention here is: When Mr Arhinmäki mentioned what the Minister said about Yle, it must be said at this point that the media was working in exactly the right way, he dug up an aspect that was previously unknown and thus this issue of dual citizenship arose in the first place, and then it was possible to prove that this information had been correct in the media. Similarly, Yle has now been exempted from this so-called Sipilä news, which was also a bit of a waste of time. And if we are talking about general peace and good living within Finland's borders in general, it must be said that it will not be helped in any way if our ministers are actively barking and criticising Parliament's radio, Parliament's media, which is objective and which
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u18	I no longer recognize the content of the speech relating to this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u19	Mr President! On this security mission, I'd like to see a representative. After a good speech by Mr Räsänen, I would like to say that former Minister Räsänen was familiar with and still knows very well the scarce resources and resources of the police. I share the concern that we must not take legislation in the direction of reducing the appropriations for one of the administrative sectors, so that tasks are transferred elsewhere. That is not what this legislation must be about either; it is a question of making meaningful transfers of powers where there are technical needs, not economic reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u20	Mr President! Here, too, on the side of the Defence Forces, there are other legislative changes in this house, which are related to the tasks of the Defence Forces and the decision-making process. I will come back to this theme that, although this proposal is justified by itself — this kind of extension of security tasks — the most important thing is that: The Defence Forces are very careful to comply with this current legislation. It cannot be thought that the Defence Forces, or any other administrative sector, are going to anticipate some possible future legislative changes and to act on the supposed new legislative changes. This has caused great concern to the institution that is one of our most trusted institutions, namely the coherence and transparency of the activities of the Defence Forces. In other words, in these situations of change of law, the preparation must be done on time and it must be perfectly clear that the Defence Forces comply with the law in force. Then, if something new is laid down in Parliament, then that is another situation. But it seems that this issue of dual citizenship is still under investigation in the government, and when I listened to the debate here earlier, it seemed that these changes were not self-evident at all. So in this respect, I still hope that the government will apply for such a form of work, in which it could explain to the whole Parliament how the Defence Forces currently operate in relation to recruitment and military training, and on the basis that the rights of Finnish citizens are protected on an equal footing and that no population group is unduly questioned by stigmatisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u21	Mr President! Mr Kari said that the lack of money should not justify the transfer of these tasks from one authority to another, and this has certainly not been the key argument in this case either. However, I drew attention to the fact that this committee report states that this change in the security environment, combined with insufficient police resources, is in favour of giving the Defence Forces greater responsibility for these security tasks. These personal protective tasks of the Defence Forces and also those related to material transport are, of course, significant in terms of quantity. These personal protection tasks are approximately 50 per year and material protection tasks 200 per year. Of course, they would feel that way in the line of duty of the police, and of course they will also have a positive impact on that police resource situation, but I still believe that this really must not be the basis for such a constitutionally sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u22	Mr President! That is precisely what we, the opposition, in the committee, are criticising the government's proposal. Of course, we do not disagree with the basic point that security tasks should not be developed in time and that new measures should be sought. However, as I said earlier, it must not be a question of money being scarcely enough to drive the transfer of powers; there must be other, well-founded reasons for the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u24	Mr President! I will continue with this matter of authority. After all, the Defence Forces use very strong power in society in critical situations, and then it is important that the powers are clear and that they are always, ultimately, within the framework of democratic control. After all, we are also dealing with the issue of a significant extension of the tasks of the Defence Forces, which concern foreign aid, assistance or access to assistance. In this regard, too, I would like to stress that it is very important that the organised democratic decision-making process is adhered to when such issues of assistance are addressed, for example. There must be no situation in which Finnish soldiers are sent abroad for missions with considerable risks of life and also major international consequences, without being in a democratic decision-making process, that is to say, the role of the government, the President and also the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-24-ps-13.u25	Mr President! I have to address this interesting debate insofar as Mr Räsänen and Mr Kari very well pointed out that tasks are now being postponed for lack of money. I would like to point out in my own speech that account is taken of the level of education, the sector of knowledge from which certain tasks are being transferred to another place because of a lack of money. In my opinion, this would be what should be taken into account: how the training of police officers in these tasks is very specific and how it is in the Defence Forces in these same tasks. This needs to be taken into account.
