ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to inform you that the President of the Hungarian Parliament, Mr László Kövér and his party have arrived to follow the plenary session, so on behalf of Parliament, I welcome the honourable guests to this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. The ministers are already moving into the ministerial box, so I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u3	Congressman Skinner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u4	Mr President! Transparency and transparency have been the backbone of Finnish society, of which we are known and known in the world. People need to know who owns what they own and where they own it. The entire management register process has been confusing and insidious. The control register disappears, burns, disappears, returns, but no one knows the basis for this adjustment. Yesterday evening, this confusing process culminated in almost total discussion without representatives of the government parties. The changing explanations of the government and the failing solutions show that it has not really wanted to solve the problem of tax evasion, but its purpose is to force the matter through without any means at all. So I ask you, Minister: why is the government using such very exceptional means to get through the management register?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u5	Mr President! First of all, I fully agree with the questioner that this has been a rather exceptional process and certainly does not enjoy the hallmarks of the best possible legislative process, and I am not surprised if this is confusing, especially since there are so many misconceptions and misconceptions involved, as was also heard in this question. The government is not driving anything by force, but, as we are well aware, we belong to the European Union and we are bound by European Union law. We must bring into national law those who are agreed together. 2014, when the Social Democrats were also responsible for government, there was a directive that is now being implemented nationally, and that is why we are now taking this law forward, because it is our duty as a member of the European Union to do so. This law will not change this openness and access to information that is important to all of us at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u7	Mr President! Ultimately, it is a question of public access to ownership and of not being able to circumvent regulation abroad. It is in the interests of small investors and ordinary taxpayers that shareholder information is public. I would have expected something more from the government than just more bureaucracy and a desperate fine model. It now seems that the government is putting ordinary taxpayers, i.e. those who conscientiously submit a tax return and pay their taxes year after year, in a different position but allow moneymen and women to slip abroad to hide their taxes. My question is: why is the government making holes in the tax base and leaving ordinary citizens and small investors to pay their taxes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u8	Mr President! Still, the government doesn't make holes in the tax base. This is, therefore, based on the EU regulation — I have just said ‘directive’ — a regulation of 14, and, on the contrary, on the basis of this government’s tax rate of 50%, which does not increase bureaucracy or, if it is added, it does not bother me if it ensures that the tax authorities and taxpayers in Finland receive what they need. This system has been created in such a way that, since we cannot once prohibit a resident of Finland from using a management register abroad — for example, in Germany there is no other system than a management register when there is no way to ban — we therefore define this really drastic 50% advance tax for these holdings. But if you honestly, openly publish your information, then you will be subject to a lower tax. I think this is a good solution. The IRS will get what's going on with it. If it now adds a little red tape, it will be fine if the Finnish taxpayer is taken on board.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u9	Mr President! Yes, for many citizens and also for many of us here in Parliament, the government is doing everything in its power to make it possible to have this kind of shady ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u12	Madam President! I don't think they're gonna wave safe deals around here, and they're not public. I have never had such safe agreements in my life, but we have agreed in good agreement that, now that there is also a severe tax penalty on this management register for those who want to hide their ownership behind a management register, we want to ensure that this matter is dealt with as quickly as possible. And we agreed jointly that we will do so as quickly as officials have promised to deal with it, so by the end of June we will bring in a joint, well-prepared proposal. The starting point for everything is that anyone who wants to hide his property will have to pay heavily for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u13	Mr President! As a follow-up to that: Just in the form of drafting the law, we went through the government parties to get this important tax law, which is now an integral part of this overall solution and which will then bring this heavy tax to those who would try to leave the owner's information hidden. We will bring it as quickly as possible, with these prospects the Ministry of Finance will be able to bring it to the consultation in early June. A couple of weeks' consultation will probably be enough, and then we will have the chance that Parliament will be able to deal with this important element in time after mid-June, this tax law, which is an essential part of this solution and which will safeguard the interests of Finnish taxpayers and, in my opinion, will also maximise publicity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u14	Mr President! The majority of Finns filled the tax return conscientiously this Monday. It is not up to the ordinary taxpayer to decide whether to pay taxes or not. Now, on this side of the management register, a withholding of foreign unknown dividends has been invented, which does not solve any problems at all. Professor Rothovius said today at Radio 1, that a fine tax is very easy to circumvent: "If the owner says that he was the owner, it is known, but if he does not tell, it is not known." This is now the harsh tax penalty promoted by the Prime Minister. Do you really believe that a tax evader or a hider of property is voluntarily punishing himself? My question, however, is, in the spirit of the old 20-family song: Why would a foreign management register be allowed for companies outside the stock market when the EU does not even demand it? Minister Orpo, why do you want to offer the most wealthy Finns this special opportunity to hide their assets?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u15	Mr President! I do not recognize these views of Mr Haraka. But seriously, if a Finnish user uses a management register abroad, if there is a trade and property change, then the holder of the management register always has all that information about the ownership and, in accordance with EU law, has an obligation to inform the Finnish tax authorities and the Finnish authorities of this information, yes. This is EU legislation, it has been done when we in the EU have already done a great deal of legislation in other contexts aimed at preventing tax evasion and money laundering. And this access to information and the obligation to disclose it will ensure that Finland receives what is due to the Finnish tax authorities and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u16	Mr President! I was missed here last night, but I have already made quite a few comments on this issue. I'm going to comment now. So the question is that there will be no control register in Finland. It's like this. Just as the Minister of Finance, Orpo, said just now, the tax authorities are always informed about the management register, including abroad. In fact, the big problem is that this information, which the tax authorities receive, is not public, at least not yet. But at the beginning of this year, we have come into force a directive which will address this. This directive does not prevent stricter national regulation in this area of public access, and when this directive is transposed into our own national legislation, it is also possible to address this issue as to whether it would also be possible to make this information available to the public. I would like to ask the Minister: is it possible to deal with this type of issue in the context of this directive?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u17	Mr President! The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs is well aware of future legislative projects. We must look at the order in which this can be dealt with. I want to make it quite clear that we are therefore working in the framework of EU legislation, we are doing what the EU requires of us. We do everything at national level, with which we can guarantee maximum publicity. Transparency of information, transparency of ownership information, so that we can prevent tax evasion, so that citizens do not have distrust of our system — this is clearly the goal of the government and the government parties and the aim of the Finnish tax authorities. All this time that has now passed has been spent seeking the means to maximise this publicity at the current good level. In fact, the already reformed EU legislation means that we will have much more ownership information about the EU area than we have done so far. The data for 16 are and will be larger than today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u18	Mr President! Yesterday, there was a law on freedom of choice, this health business law, and then we dealt with this law that allows us to hide ownership. You can say that this would be quite a toxic cocktail when it comes to it, because here the ingredients are actually paid for by the Finnish taxpayer. Prime Minister, I am sure that the public have been very confused about this play on this legislative project, which we have already heard from the Minister for Finance, that it did not complete all the features.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u20	Madam President! A representative of the National Police of Peruvians stated regarding this shady register that he has come here to prevent crime, not to promote crime. Such uprightness, such statements, I would prefer more from the ranks of the True Finns. Madam President! This bill has been standing here for a year now. During that time — when it was said that all the stones have been turned — nothing happened. Now, in a hurry, different ponies have been made to try to appease the Finns and play media games. Last week you, Mr Orpo, said that the application of withholding tax is an excellent solution and preparations are already on the move. Well, yesterday, the Group leader of the Finns Party, Mr Kankaanniemi, said that this withholding tax is a terrible model, it would have been a total disaster, that we would have acted completely ill-advised if this last week's solution had been implemented, and now there is a new solution. Madam President! How do we know that this week's solution has been successful if last week's
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u21	Mr President! Firstly, technically, when these tax laws are different laws and we are dealing in principle with this so-called management register law, that is why these preparations are not going exactly the same. But when we have wanted to find that way — and I believe you do —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u22	Madam President! Indeed, this process has been rather lengthy and has not quite gone as in Strömsö, I must admit. But the management register does not come to Finland, that is quite a fact. At present, this access to information, the automatic exchange of information, the exchange of tax information, will also help to make this public. The only problem here is public access, in some respects it does not have the strength that Finland currently has for these foreign investments. But there's no crime either. Swedish, German and French companies are still included in the register. There are about 130 listed companies in Finland where investments are made through management registers. Are these all criminals who then invest in Finland? Is that what you're looking for here? Now these pomps. These are quite vigorous contributions, and here the Minister of Finance previously assured us that they would be introduced immediately. Is it really the case that they are being introduced immediately, and can the withholding tax still be returned?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u23	Mr President! These efforts are made because they are taken seriously and are taken particularly seriously. As I have said here, work is under way on changes in this taxation. I would also like to say that when it is given the impression that there is a huge amount of tax evasion in Finland and that there is an attempt to conceal it — that is to say, Finland is a top country in international comparisons.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u24	Madam President! At the heart of this issue is this access to information for the tax authorities and, on the other hand, ensuring public access. The Christian Democrats here have distributed a statement to the tables, in which we are seeking precisely to ensure this public access, and we note that in Finland taxpayers' investors or their domestic and foreign custodians must disclose the domestic ownership of these investors, including their holdings through investment companies used by these investors, to the public ownership register, and that in this way at least the disclosure of ownership data of the level of direct ownership is guaranteed. I would have asked the Minister for Finance: would it not be good to proceed in line with this proposal by the Christian Democrats? This is clearly a more stringent entry than in that committee's report, this so-called '2nd Pontus'. Of course, the government can be reprimanded that these laws have not been prepared in the course of the year,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u27	Finland has a fully open system at the moment and will continue to do so. There will be no changes to the Finnish system. We have a book-entry account system run by a CSD that is fully transparent. All the information is available there. But then we come to this very steak, that when we cannot prescribe what is being done in Germany and when they operate there in accordance with EU law. But in the sense of ensuring that a very open system is maintained in Finland, in which ownership information will continue to be available to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u28	Mr President! After all, these developments of recent days have shown, and indeed have been, a miniature picture of how the government has driven this management register. Last week it was said that withholding tax will solve the problems, and this week it was said that this will not happen in any way. Now they say this withholding is the key. It is a dividend, Mr Minister of Finance, but, as Mr Hirvonen, the tax advisor, Mr Hirvonen, said yesterday, the concealment of ownership is not based on the search for dividends, but rather on the profit from sales that this system will not catch up with. And the person who hides the ownership does not want to avoid the tax, but rather wants to avoid public publicity. Now it doesn't matter what the percentage is, which you're going to reserve in advance. The question is that this legalises that property can be hidden through foreign management registers, which makes it difficult for Finnish authorities to investigate, for example, money laundering and insider crimes. Next week, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u29	Mr President! I hope that the representative will: Lindtman would also read the countless memos of the Treasury officials,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u33	Next question, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u34	Madam President! We have witnessed online attempts to influence elections, e - mail breaking and live cyber warfare in many countries. For example, the US presidential election may have been affected by this, and efforts were made in France. In Finland, information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has previously been broken into, among other things. Internet threats are diverse, and it is a serious matter that attempts are being made to undermine democracy, including by stealing private e-mails and spreading fake news. Finland is not an island. Our election and decision-makers may also be subject to harassment and influence by foreign powers. Electronic voting is particularly vulnerable. That is why the enthusiasm for electronic voting in Europe has fallen. In Finland, the government has put forward online votes and the extension of electronic voting to all elections in addition to traditional voting. So I ask our new Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice Häkkkäs: how do we respond to these threats, and do you think that the introduction of electronic voting in elections should continue to be promoted? Have you changed your position in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u35	Mr President! Online voting is one of the most important issues in every country at the moment in terms of democracy and, in particular, this online influence. At the same time, two things are being considered in Finland: one is how to involve more and more people, especially young people, and the other is how to guarantee the reliability of the elections, 100 % reliability, in such a situation where more and more signs, in a way, suggest that even foreign countries are involved in the elections. How can we combine these two flows so that people do not alienate themselves from democracy, but, on the other hand, the reliability of the elections can be safeguarded? With interest, I now look to the end at the reports on the online vote and the various comments and other comments made by researchers, but if we cannot reliably guarantee the organisation of elections electronically, then I will be rather negative about this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u36	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u37	Madam President! Thank you, Minister of Justice, for your clear answer. I hope you analyse the risks carefully. However, not all of our challenges come from outside, and some are also technical. I am expanding a little perspective on the overall safety of Finland and Finns, as information systems can be as important as electricity grids or clean water. An example of this new-time information system infrastructure can be found, for example, in the future reform of the information system for social and health services. Many experts also believe that if information systems do not work, it will not work and cannot happen. The seamless functioning of the systems must be ensured. These systems cannot be incomplete either when it comes into force. In its mid-term review, the government has promised funding for the development of social information systems, but time is at stake. That is why I ask the government: how to ensure the functioning of the main information systems and, for example, the seamless operation of future information systems in the Member States as soon as the reform comes into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u38	Madam President! The use of information security and the use of each information itself to ensure that it is criminal or that it is used for another purpose than the health service must be possible to prevent it at all costs. Secondly, we have more than one legislative project going on with regard to the whole of this social change, and legislation on information systems and information security is one part of the work that is being done. Then this midwayer job. In the spending limits period of 4 years, EUR 1 billion has been earmarked for investment in information systems. The following concrete measures in this respect will be taken by the Government in June in preparation. The government has a role to play in this, including through legislation, to ensure that information security is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u39	Mr President! Cybersecurity is indeed a central part of national security, and according to Finland’s cybersecurity strategy, national cyber defence is coordinated by the Government, even though the cyber crisis requires that different ministries and authorities act at very short notice. No wonder the first measure of the latest cyber strategy implementation programme is precisely the definition of strategic leadership. However, strategic leadership alone is not enough. The operational command chains must also be crystal clear. That's why I'm asking: How quickly would the Government be able to coordinate Finland’s cyber defence if Finland were under attack like Estonia unexpectedly in 2007 or Ukraine unexpectedly at Christmas 2015? Are the resources of the FICORA's Cert function responsible for the practical security of the information networks sufficient to meet the needs of such a crisis situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u40	Madam President! As we have also had discussions with the representative in this Chamber before, the Havaro Centre of the Finnish Communications Agency is on the move from time to time with tight resources. But as part of internal security, we have agreed in the context of the mid-term review that we will increase the possibilities of the Cyber Security Centre to increase its resources with funding of 2 million over the next four years. In this regard, we are seeking to improve our capacity to respond to this resource issue and, in particular, to ensure, from the point of view of business and security of supply, the ability of critical companies to act in a climate of cybersecurity threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u41	Madam President! Cybersecurity has been mentioned here, but also voting. Minister Häkkänen pointed out that one of the reasons why electronic voting is being investigated is to activate young people and improve voting turnout. It must be easy to vote. Voting places must be taken to places where people are — educational institutions, supermarkets, travel centres and so on — and educational institutions and schools must also provide children and young people with information about politics and social matters. If I understand correctly, then in Porvoo in the Parliaments of the Future, Prime Minister Sipilä, but also Mr Orpo, Minister of Finance, welcomed the reduction in voting age for 16 years in municipal elections. I would like to ask how the government is moving forward in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u42	Mr President! In fact, this morning this issue was discussed, and it would be natural for this to leave, like many such things, a parliamentary group of party secretaries. There will be an in-depth debate on this and then a joint motion will be brought here to the table. Such a debate on these other issues is now possible and is to be launched.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u43	Mr President! It must be a very nice thing and an easy way to increase voting activity, but when compared to Estonia, for example, which is the only country in the world in which every election can be voted online, there too has been little increase in voting turnout and there has also been no significant increase in the participation of young people in social engagement. But in this situation, when we talk about an online vote, it is also good to see this international development, where other countries are currently withdrawing their own online voting practices in France and Holland — but here in Finland, the government is now taking this report forward. I would have asked the Minister of Justice again: did I understand correctly that if and when experts come to the conclusion that there is no reason to move to the online vote, because of a number of problems, then the government is not really doing it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u44	Mr President! The investigation will be initiated because it is known whether there is a yes or no answer. I am not going to speculate at this point that if and when something happens, but I am sure that everyone in this Chamber will recognize the great dangers to the credibility of the democratic system, for example, if such information starts to flow from Finland to abroad or to our own citizens, that a foreign country has been able to influence the calculation or outcome of our elections, or some other similar news that is now on the move from different countries. This, of course, must now be looked closely with researchers and others to see whether there could be a system in which, quite certainly, such a procedure can be ruled out, because the fact that we are going to go for a percentage increase in voting with this kind of use of new technology, at the same time even if risking the reliability of the vote, can be a rather expensive price.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u45	Mr President! I would like to supplement the Minister of Justice's answer in such a way that during the last parliamentary term there was already this first working group and it was thought in such a way that this online voting could perhaps be tried out for the first time in municipal, such as advisory votes. It is probably the case that the work that the previous working group has already done can be assessed together. But it is quite true that Norway and many other countries have taken a step backwards from these international events in recent months, and I say in Estonia that Estonia has been doing so for ten years, but they also do not vote online on the day of the vote, that it is only used in advance voting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u46	Next question, Mr. Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u47	Mr President! This week we have read again how the European Social Rights Committee has found the minimum level of social benefits insufficient in Finland. The Committee examined the level of labour market support in 2014 and the average level of housing support paid in 2013 compared to the average income of Finns. The Committee noted that the minimum level of basic security in Finland is too low to cover the basic needs of the beneficiary. The Government has repeatedly gone behind a self-invented EU force, such as the incorporation of Metsähallitus or the register of the management of Metsähallitus. But this kind of thing, which repeatedly becomes official note, does not bother you at all. Minister, how does the Finnish Government intend to ensure that Finland fulfils its international human rights obligations in accordance with the European Social Charter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u48	Mr President! In this case, in the complaint, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs acts as an agent of the Finnish State and then prepares an opinion from the competent Ministry. This issue is also being discussed in the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, where Finland will present its views. Here is a situation where there is a different basis for calculation, in such a way that in addition to cash benefits, there are public services available to everyone in Finland that are free of charge or that are granted payment relief. In other words, the income and its support are formed on the basis of the overall situation of the individual person. This committee has also criticised the adequacy of the other countries, the parties to the Charter and the Nordic countries' basic security, and Norway from the Nordic countries have also called for individuality of income support and the fact that income is the sum of the totals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u49	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u50	Mr President! It sounds like the government thinks we have no real problem. But this week it has also been reported how the number of people living in Finland depends on basic security. There are now even more people living on basic daily allowance and labour market support than in the worst years of the recession of the 1990s. For example, the active model envisaged by the government would mean that further cuts would be made to this already too low unemployment benefit. I would now like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: why are you cutting off the most vulnerable? How does cutting off people who live on basic security improve the economy of this country? This is certainly not the way to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u51	Mr President! As far as this active model is concerned, I am sure that Minister Lindström will also be able to complete it, but this is part of the wider package. This has also been done to improve the conditions for employment. Of course, this active model does not apply to all Finns who rely on benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u52	Mr President! This problem of long-term unemployment was also addressed during the last Question Time, and quite rightly so. According to the recent employment survey, it is true that the number of long-term unemployed has decreased, but on the contrary, the number of unemployed for more than two years has increased all the time. It should be borne in mind that a person does not have to be long-term unemployed in order to fall from earnings-related security to labour market support — in many cases that means that the unemployed have halved their income. There is also a mechanism so that when the definition of a person's earnings-related status is renewed, when the condition of employment is fulfilled, this an interest-linked person is calculated on the basis of their income and, if that income is temporary work or part-time work, it is a very substantial decrease. In other words, the difference between those with earnings-related income and those with basic daily allowance is narrowing all the time. Is the Ministry of Labour prepared to pay special attention to these shredder workers, part-time employed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u53	Madam President! The representative of Mustajärvi's question is justifiable, and of course this kind of fragmentation, to which you referred, is a serious question. Of course, the narrowing of the difference between earnings-related and then basic security, the basic daily allowance, is a worrying phenomenon and time is increasing. This long-term unemployment: we have managed to put an end to the fact that there will be no more long-term unemployed of the year. But the problem is that the number of those who have been unemployed for even longer, that is, two years, is increasing. This change is not going to happen in a moment, but I believe that these measures, which the government has done and is doing, will enable us to influence this long-term unemployment and the new tools that were adopted in the middle of the debate to address this. I am referring, for example, to pay subsidies, which are targeted primarily at companies and those who are hard to find employment. And remember, too, that the long-term unemployed are rarely just unemployed, he has other problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u54	Mr President! We are well aware that uneducated and poor people tend to inherit, and one of the key principles of the welfare society has been that we have thought that young people should have the opportunity to study insecurity or family background without prejudice to it. But now in April Kela has made a policy that young people in an deprived family no longer have the right to receive income support to finance upper secondary school studies. Kela has issued a policy stating that a young person in a broke family must first apply for a student loan and if it is not enough, then you can apply for income support and that this student loan is taken into account as income, which means that a young person in a poor family is not eligible for housing allowance either. This means that in the future, poor families are unlikely to leave the high school trail, or it means that if you find such exceptionally strong ones
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u55	Mr President! This issue has been discussed here in Question Time before, and the government is aware of this. We have also responded then that we are aware and that there has been a dialogue with Kela and that it will continue with regard to these implementing guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u56	Madam President! Indeed, the government has weakened basic security and, unfortunately, it has become aware that the government will continue to bring forward new legislative proposals and cuttings, which will continue to undermine the livelihoods of low-income and poor people. It will also involve people more and more in income support and force people to be permanently covered by income support because basic security becomes so low that people can no longer survive without income support. In addition to this, the Government is also preparing proposals for housing subsidies, as well as proposals for income support legislation, in which housing costs will no longer be taken into account in the future. Mr President! I would now like to ask Minister Mattila: In this equation — the reform of housing allowance and related cuts and reforms relating to income support, where the costs of housing allowance will no longer be taken into account in the future — how does the government intend to put this whole together? How do housing costs and...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u57	Minister Mattila. — Excuse me, Minister Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u58	Madam President! When we have more than that which you described in your own colorful style, what is being done here, it will certainly be reported to the public, as it has been so far — continuing to see to it that everyone lives on top of the roof, ensuring that minimum security, ultimately income support, is at the level of survival of everyday life. We have a government-registered measure of EUR 30 million in housing support. In this respect, the details require preparation, which is in the Ministry's work. This is then a stage in the budget debate, and the matter will be brought to Parliament next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u59	Next question, Congressman Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u60	Mr President! Mr Terho, right after your appointment last Friday, you said that it is now up to you to'repair the currently uneven support mechanisms for political youth organisations'. But what are these support mechanisms today? Direct quote from the Youth Act: "When considering the amount of state aid to a national youth organisation, account shall be taken of the financial management of the organisation and the national, quality, extent and social impact of its activities. When considering the amount of state aid, account will also be taken of how the organisation promotes equality, equality and inclusion in its activities. The activities to be assisted must be of general interest." Mr Terho, which of these aid criteria is, at the moment, wrong, excessive, inadequate or otherwise, in your view, causing the inequality that you disapprove of?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u61	Mr President! Thank you to the sympathetic representative for this question. Your quotes were correct. At the moment we have a situation where, by means of these specific criteria, an uneven outcome is achieved in relation to the activity of the organisations, their background resources, their party, and we must take a fair view of the fact that, regardless of which party is in the government at any time, or of what the minister is occupying this place, everyone can have a fair confidence that the subsidies will be even all around and over the parliamentary term. That is what I am going to do — without yet taking a position on the exact criteria that need to be changed in detail, or whether it is possible to correct the system without this measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u62	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u63	Mr President! You do not have to be a detective to understand that the aim is to change the support mechanisms in such a way that they favour the basic Finnish youth organisation more than they do today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u64	Mr President! To the comfort of the representative, I can tell you that the stunt was hardly very expensive for the youth organization, and that is not what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u67	Madam President! As Minister of Culture, I have distributed these youth grants and, in the case of political youth organisations, every time the sum of the contributions made by the Commission and officials, i.e. there has been no upward political reflection. But what is essential is that youth organisations have so far, including political ones, been supported in the framework of the Youth Act, through the scope of the activities, the active participation of members and the activities. This has, of course, led to the fact that, when such organizations, such as the Boy Scouts or the Centre Youths who have been active for decades, have more activity, the new ones have difficulty getting to the same level. Is it now a question of you wanting to change this system so that organisations are no longer supported because of their activities, but because of their political background? And the question then is whether this will be no longer support for youth or support for political action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u68	Mr President! I am well aware that Mr Arhinmäki has shared these earlier, and that is precisely why I am now here to make the necessary amendments if they are to be justified. But you yourself spoke strangely about some political change, because I have just said to the previous questioner that there is absolutely no political tendency or opinion to influence that amount of support, so your concern in this respect is pointless. It is, of course, a good question as to whether a reasonable criterion is the amount of funding received in the previous year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u71	Mr President! When Mr. Arhinmäki appeared very morally here, it was during his term as Minister of Education and Culture that he won the appeal in the Supreme Administrative Court. [Department :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u72	Mr President! I do not yet comment directly on the level of aid that is reasonable, but it is clear that, when the aid is modified, it will hardly be possible to increase the total amount of aid, because the times are really tough, so we must be able to operate within the framework of the current financial framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u73	There are no replies in Question Time, so, Mr Arhinmäki, I hope you will ask a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u74	Madam President! The Supreme Administrative Court has never considered that the levels of aid should have been changed in order to have been wrongly distributed. This has not been decided by the Supreme Administrative Court. The question is that when the Finns as a Party grew, it did not mean that at the same time the activities of the youth organization grew. The question has been that, when, for example, the Centre Party lost the elections in 2011 dramatically and the Central Youths have been very active for decades, should the financing of the Central Youths have collapsed then. Of course not, because it is a question of funding youth activities. Madam President! This discussion shows what the Finns applying for with this. They are not satisfied with the system in which youth activities are funded by youth funds, but with the desire to fund political positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u75	I have already said on many occasions, Mr President, that the political position will not affect this future or present system of division, if I change it or check it in any way. As far as the amount of money is concerned, I said and meant that I have no intention of increasing that amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u76	Next question, Mr. Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u77	Madam President! An estimated 30,000 children are affected by the divorce of their parents each year. There are approximately 2,000 custody disputes in court every year. For example, in 2015, more than 40,000 contracts were concluded for child custody, housing and access rights. Every dispute about a child’s everyday life and residence is a crisis for all parties involved. Too often, divorce disputes escalate to alienation. In it, a parent living with a child can manipulate the child and try to make it difficult to maintain a relationship between the child and the other parent. According to several studies, alienation is extremely damaging to the development of a child. The best interests of the child are currently underscored in the judicial proceedings of custody disputes. We do not have an impartial advocate of the rights of the child in the courts. Only quarreling parents have their own lawyers. There is a record in the Government Programme that the legislation on parental responsibility and rights of access will be reformed. I would like to ask the minister concerned: at what stage is the preparation of the legislative project, and what are its main means of preventing this kind of action?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u78	Mr President! The best interests of the child guide family policy and legislation related to children. The problems of child care and meeting have been known for years in this country. The Ministry of Justice has now started on the basis of a record of the government negotiations and has made a study of these problems, organised online discussions and mapped out the views of individual people quite specifically in this project. A working group is now preparing a report on this issue on how to address these problems, in particular with regard to access rights, and by the end of August a working group will be submitting a report. I also intend to have a debate with representatives of the parliamentary parties in the spring on this issue, and then, at the end of August, after the task force submits the report, we will see a little more together on the wider front how to proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u79	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u80	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for a good answer. Indeed, this is a matter in the Government Programme, and in this connection, during the last parliamentary term, two parliamentary initiatives were taken, the initiative of a representative of the Finnish People's Republic and my own initiative. One concerned alienation, the other concerned non-compliance with rights of access agreements. I would like to see further clarification on this issue of compliance or non-compliance with rights of access agreements, and that particular attention should be paid to it. In this context, I would like to ask: has this aspect of the preparation come up, and how do you intend to deal with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u81	Mr President! This question, which Mr Kiuru has asked, has, according to my information, been on the table, but only now, when the work of the working group begins to turn towards the end, will we see more clearly what the whole of it is. Now we are really going to have a basic debate with representatives of the parliamentary parties during the spring on whether or not all these pain spots that have already been identified in the need to reform maintenance and meeting legislation have been adequately taken into account in this working group's preparatory work. Once the report is ready, let us see if the result is a response to all these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u82	Mr President! I am very pleased to hear that Minister Häkkänen has studied this subject. In the Government Programme two years ago, when it was being abused, it was indeed decided to reform this law on child custody and access rights. It was agreed that in the event of a divorce or a divorce, the child would retain the right to communicate with both parents, i.e. both the mother and the father. At the moment, the situation is rather bad: In the case of parents’ divorce, more and more children are faced with a situation in which the connection with another parent is either partially or completely broken. Clearly more often the child’s connection with the father is broken, and otherwise also with the father’s relatives, aunts, uncles, cousins and so on, including the grandmothers and grandfathers. I would now like to ask, when the term 'visiting' was mentioned — sometimes when this connection is deliberately cut off — if this alienation could be defined in the same way as it was a few years ago that persecution was banned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u83	Mr President! In these online discussions and feedback from those families, those fathers and mothers, whose child is in a situation where, for example, this alienation is mentioned, these problems are perceived as very serious and big at the moment. This means that now, in the context of this working group, alienation, whether unintentional or deliberate, must be taken quite seriously. What conclusions the government will reach during the autumn will be looked at more closely and by the crowd, but in any case, this is one of the key issues that comes up from the concerns of families and parents all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u84	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Representative, Chairman of the Board of Directors Kivelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u85	Mr President! The reporting year was contradictory for Yle. On the one hand, especially at the end of the year, the debate around Yle was intense; on the other hand, public confidence in Yle has remained at a very high level. Yle also produced high-quality investments, of which the Rio Olympic Games and the company’s 90th anniversary could be mentioned in the first place. During the reporting year, a parliamentary working group chaired by Vice-President Satose was working on an evaluation of the role and financing of the company. I suppose it was possible to say that after some kind of start-up difficulties the group reached a consensus, presenting forward-looking guidelines for the future. The guidelines of this working group have already been made more concrete: on the one hand, the Committee on Transport and Communications is working on a legislative amendment on matters on which the working group unanimously took a position, where, among other things, strengthening the company's strategy is a matter for the company's Board of Directors. On the other hand, the board of directors of the company has been proactive in that the working group recommended that experts should be consulted by the Management Board when drawing up the report, and this has already been done. Everyone can see when reading the report that there are not only the statements of the Sámi Parliament but also the statements of the Media Union and Professor Nieminen. A year ago, in this same situation, I wrote in the company's annual report and in the report of the Board of Directors: "It is necessary for our society to have a debate on the role of Yle and the role of the public service at times. The debate must also lead to guidelines from time to time, which should be adopted in the broadest possible parliamentary consensus, with due consideration and avoidance of coopting." It is in these areas that the working group of Mr Satose, the Vice-President, succeeded. When the Governing Board of YLE becomes the task of strengthening the company’s strategy, it must be taken for granted that a firewall will remain between the strategy adopted by the Governing Board of YLE and the work of programming and delivery. This is self-evident, even though public opinion has intended to explain this issue in a different way and to suggest that politicians take a stand on the basis of their own passions and preferences for everyday operational work. In this context, it should be said that until now, the YLE Board has been in the process of establishing strategic guidelines — but this has not been questioned and claims that politicians are increasingly taking power in programme policy or editorial policies. The Finnish Broadcasting Company is a company of the entire population, and everyone participates in its financing through the Yle-Tax, according to their ability to pay. Broadcasting is a company with a public service mission. The public service has three basic objectives: coverage, versatility and credibility. And especially when we have moved to the general tax system and the old licence fee policy has been left in the past, public debate has also highlighted the importance of public relations. For the public radio, public relations are extremely important and central. Yle cares about Finns, Yle cares about Finns, and Yle is a media company that is important to Finns and important to them, a public service company that wants to be and must be on the cause of freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u86	We will take a few speeches first and then go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u87	Mr President! As we read in the Government's report, Yle reaches Finns well and Finns trust YLE exceptionally much. This contributes to the high level of responsibility of a tax-based media house. In particular, the responsibility is high because the consumer cannot vote on his feet if he is not satisfied with the activities of the Finnish Broadcasting Company — when he has to be a customer because the tax has to be paid. This entirely tax-based financing model is quite unique in European terms, as the public service broadcaster’s financing model is generally a combination of licence fees, state funding and advertising revenues. Since a Finn is born as a YLE consumer and customer and cannot escape this role as a particularly low income, it is a pity that some aspects of news and journalism have shifted from information to information editing and cliché journalism. The company does not have to compete with customers; it would be reasonable to expect the company to follow the objective line highlighted in the communication. I have noticed that in European elections or in American elections, as a good example, the editorial grip has slipped away from the influence of journalism, that I would not even say 'on the side of information influence'. This does not have to and must not be the case. As a forced customer, Finns have the right to investigate and objective information. I would also like to express the hope that the Finnish Broadcasting Company will not compete with commercial operators for the acquisition of foreign series. It is not reasonable for the consumer to pay a tax on the same series to Netflix and, at the same time, to pay a tax to YLE.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u88	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Yle has an important role to play in Finnish society and has handled it well in different, difficult situations. Last year, what we are talking about, i.e. in 2016, Yle's public service provision on the radio and television side remained on level with the previous year. The Finnish Broadcasting Company invested more in the development of online services and more in the content of Yle Arena. This is what we have actually talked about several times in the Chamber over the past ten years, namely that we have to live in time and respond to time and transfer the services to where people are and what kind of viewing habits people have. Over 70 per cent and up to 93 per cent of Finns per day, but in the rapid change in media use, the challenge of YLE remains, in particular, young and young adults and reaching them. You can ask why Yle can't do this if the other media can do it. We have good examples that young people do use the media, but their media is not Yle, and I personally hope that Yle will seriously reflect on this and find out what are the means by which young people feel that Yle is theirs. The chairman of Yle’s Board of Directors told about the Rio Summer Olympics, which were one big show and a big job for YLE. I was also able to follow it closely, and I must give thanks: it is one of the most excellent stone legs and an expression of competence in the very fact that the Finnish Broadcasting Company also takes care of the international image for many species, especially in the field of athletics. A major issue last year was also the agreement to open the archives of radio and television drama in Yle Arena, and I understand that they have also reached those who have wanted a little nostalgic, but also those young people who have wanted to look at certain kinds of images of time, for example. The domestic drama has also been invested in, and that too has been discussed several times in Parliament. Crime series Sorjonen is certainly one that has reached those young viewers, but also one of my favorites from last year, aimed at young people — although I am a little older, I liked it — or Heroes of the Baltic Sea, which also received international attention. Last year the general economy remained more or less in balance. The share of general government tax in total revenue was 97.6 per cent and the total amount was just under EUR 462 million. The amount remained the same as in the previous year because the index revision was not carried out. This has been the right solution at a time like this when no one else has received more, but scarcity has had to be shared. Personally, I find it a bit of a problem that this High Tax is a compulsory tax. As we have now been able to demonstrate, we have a large group that does not use these services, and then we should also consider the use-based payment, and I personally consider the current level of Yle-tax to be too high a compulsory payment. Personally, I think the task could be further enhanced. Regional radios, whose services have in fact now been weakened, are one area that should be more prominent. Finnish sport, the sport that is otherwise not visible, culture, Finnish cultural provision, children's programmes, for example, just celebrated its anniversary, Pikku Kakkonen, and others are the kind of offering that I wish Yleisradio would develop. And I agree with Mr Mäkelä that Yle should not compete for international television formats, for example, and in this way increase prices, because in the end, even those competitions are paid by a Finnish TV viewer. Mr President! Since 2010, Finland was at the top of the Press Freedom Index. It is unfortunate and serious that a significant part of Yle's activities led to the loss of this top priority. Journalists without frontiers dropped from the top of Finnish press freedom to third place, ahead of Norway and Sweden. I hope that in the future, the Finnish Broadcasting Company will be worthy of what is expected of it and will continue to function, including in the future, as an independent defender of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u89	Now, at this stage, there is a possibility of a debut, and it will be started by Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u90	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Management Board for telling us what has been said about this report. But I'd like to supplement it a little bit. I would like to say that things have also happened in Yle. There have been good journalists who have resigned, and they have said that the reason is to reduce freedom of expression. The Management Board did not take a position on the matter and at least did not bless the way Yle reacted to this issue. That is what I wanted to say separately. Nor, unfortunately, did the Satos Group reduce the problems. On the contrary, the guidelines of that working group caused a lot of redundancies, programme downs, series downs and transitions to indie companies, which in itself is all right, but when the group did not say what kind of reward should be paid for taking away from the independent company, it went a bit wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u91	Mr President! Thank you, President. A good report on the report of the Board of Directors. I myself felt that last year was the year of the heated debate around Yle, but all in all Finns, the Finnish people, trust Yle, as well as themselves, although it has already been somewhat criticised in some respects. An important task was that of the Olympic Games in Rio, and I experienced it myself, so that Yle brought those races close, I followed them from the living room. I think this is important to remember that Yle is an important media tool for all of us Finns. The price that is paid for the High Tax, at least I personally feel that it is quite good at the moment. And in that sense, I warmly support the guidelines of the Satos Group on this Yle-Tax too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u92	Mr President! This freedom of expression seems to be a very difficult thing to get right. The media has a responsible editor-in-chief with freedom of speech. He directs delivery in accordance with the law of the Directive. An individual journalist does not have the freedom of expression that a few journalists have taken over in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u93	Mr President! There was concern that Finland has fallen from the top of the list of freedom of the press. And I share that concern, that is a very serious matter. The Prime Minister's action was truly disastrous, and it is very sad that it seems that the YLE was yielding to this effort. We are living in a time of fake news and cliché journalism, and trust in the existence of reliable content providers and intermediaries is more important than ever. These future solutions for YLE must be viewed from the point of view that trust is maintained and restored. From that point of view, I think it is a very bad idea to increase political guidance in the YLE. That is what it means when the strategy is brought to the Board of Directors for decision. It is not up to any politician to outline how the YLE works. The Governing Board shall be responsible for ensuring that: Yle fulfils the task set out in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u94	President! I am sure Mr Modig knows that this strategic issue was decided by consensus. And as I said, there is a firewall between editorial work and programme policy and the strategy adopted by the Board of Directors. But this is where Mr Heinonen brought up this issue of general taxation and its level. It has to be said that in the world this has been seen as an exemplary thing, that this is a simple and modern system, and this is what interests the world. For example, we can compare that ordering newspapers is three times more expensive than Yle’s services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u95	Mr President! I believe that the whole Parliament agrees that the independence of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is one of the key values and will then be related to the broadcasting policy of the Parliament, these solutions that have been made. One purpose of changing the financial system from the TV levy to this tax system was to create a stable financial system, one of the good results of which is that the independence of the public radio from the political cycle is increasing. There were now some interesting criticisms and openings about the development of the financial system. Mr Heinonen's idea of giving up this compulsory tax and finding another system is a little confusing. So we should go back a lot in the debate. Mr Mäkelä's idea that, according to some European models, this advertising funding could be included alongside this tax-funded model was also confused. Well, it would be quite disastrous for commercial media if the Finnish Broadcasting Company were allowed to sell advertising space there at half past nine news hours. I'm sure there would be people with that visibility, for the farm, for the ratings that YLE has.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u96	Mr President! Broadcasting is the radio of the entire population and has an important public service mission. The role of Parliament within the framework of Yle and Yle law has been significant. All decisions have been taken unanimously through parliamentary working groups, as was the case last time under the leadership of Mr Satose. Last time Yle's tasks were clarified. As regards the financing, it was decided that no index increases would be made. The level of external procurement was decided together. At the same time, the role of the Management Board was strengthened through this strategic work, which is an excellent route. At the same time, it was decided that the role of Yle, the cooperation of the media industry, should be increased through, among other things, commercial media. Well, this working group has finished its work, and the law is only on the parliamentary committee, and we have come back to this Yle-tax debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u97	Mr President! Like most Finns, I appreciate YLE as a public broadcaster. Every time we talk about the budget, that's another question, what the budget of that broadcaster should be. It is difficult now to criticise Yle’s actions towards us as our representatives are almost as often present in their programmes as Li Andersson. We've been taken into consideration. The good news is that in the new guidelines, the Finnish Broadcasting Company acquires more external domestic production. It supports domestic experts, it is excellent. But where this Yle parliamentary task force is supposed to go is that... When you earn EUR 12,000 a year, Helsinki, you are currently paying only Yle-tax EUR 76 and 50 cents. We need to get to the point where a ton of money can be made on the moon in a clean hand. It is something that people understand, something that this Parliament, this parliamentary Yle task force, can decide for the benefit of the people. Here I very much hope that the opposition will reach out and help those low-income people, which you have spoken so much about here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u98	Mr President! In the summer of 2016, there was indeed a parliamentary agreement on the financing of Yle and it was also decided, among other things, that the Board of Directors would approve Yle's strategy. It is quite extraordinary that at this stage there is such a wide-ranging debate that calls into question these parliamentary decisions. Among other things, Mr Heinonen raised the issue of VAT. What tax would not be required? Perhaps this new administrative register tax, which we have had a dispute over. The independence of Yle has also been called into question by the confusion between Prime Minister Sipilä and the leadership of Yle. Representative Mäkelä strongly criticised Yle's activities here, and the charges of influence were made, and Modig here next to me suggests that accepting Yle's strategy would be something of a influence. The Management Board shall only decide on the policies and priorities of the strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u99	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank Mr Kivela, Chairman of the Yle Board of Directors, for his own speech, in which he presented this report. Indeed, in 2016, the most significant impact of Yle’s activities was the work of the current Vice-President, Mr Satonen’s working group. It set out the tasks of Yle and the funding of Yle and other important issues. It also stated that the YLE is the radio of the entire people now and in the future — at least I believe it myself. An important part of this report is how: Yle will develop its operations and operating principles in the future. YLE is preparing for structural changes with a comprehensive reform programme. I would also like to raise a matter of great importance to me, and that is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u100	Mr President! Broadcasting is a major work in Finland, and the editorial freedom of the media is important, freedom of expression is important. When we were talking about Yle-Tax, I asked the Minister how the television and information of major sporting events will be secured, because they are the very core of which Finns are willing to pay through the Yle-Tax. In order, in a way, to maintain the legitimacy of the tax, television must become the sports competition that citizens want to watch. According to my information, the Finnish Ski Federation had to pay production subsidies to Yle to broadcast the Lahti World Cup from EUR 1.5 million to EUR 1.8 million for Yle, and now that the financial result for the Ski Federation was not exactly what was hoped for, athletes are in trouble to prepare for the Winter Olympics. Is this the line we were hoping for on the subject of VAT?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u101	Mr President! Broadcasting is an extremely important institution for Finns and it is essential that it remains viable. In the course of life, the Finnish Broadcasting System offers every Finnish person an enormous amount of great moments in its various forms. We must now take care, as Mr Kiuru said, that such valuable sporting events are accessible to all the people. We are going to have such a dangerous phenomenon that all sports competitions, such as the World Hockey Championships and many others, are going to pay for channels and have to buy expensive cards, and this is a very harmful phenomenon for people's equality. Big sports competitions must remain on the YLE so that everyone can enjoy them, just as Mr Pakkanen mentioned the Olympic Games last summer. It's a great tradition, and we need to be able to keep this up. The second point is the operation of regional radios and regional televisions. For many people, they are very good friends, and they receive local news. For example, they are extremely important partners for many people driving cars or for the elderly at home. Known news from familiar people — it is extremely valuable, and this must also be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u102	Then we will continue the debate with the following answers: representatives Tolppanen, Mäkelä Jani, Modig, Kantola, Kivelä and Heinonen, who started the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u103	Mr President! As far as sports competitions are concerned, I am now going to tell you that broadcasting these sports competitions costs a lot of money. The radio does not determine the price but has to pay the price so that you can photograph it. And Yleisradio is certainly not just a sports competition, Yleisradio is also a broad vision of Finland as a whole, including the Sámi delivery. The radio is also an RSO or Radio Symphony Orchestra. Broadcasting is also a program for hearing-impaired people. The radio is Unna Junná. It's a Sámi program. There are a lot of such programs, such functions that no one else in this country would do unless Yleisradio did it, and that's a thing that's good to remember and good to internalize. Of course, these sports competitions must be kept there, but funding is a problem at the moment, which makes so much money. That's why, for example, the Ski Federation has provided assistance for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u104	Mr President! A few answers to previous speeches. Mr Kantola obviously misheard my speech because I did not suggest that Finland should move to advertising-funded YLE, but I pointed out that this is happening somewhere abroad. The key message of my speech was that the role of Yle in its activities is different from that of commercial operators with advertising money, who basically operate with their own money and do what they want with it, but Yle works with taxpayers' money. Mr Lehti was quite right that freedom of expression cannot mean that a journalist can use the mass media in exactly the way he wants. Delivery is a job, there is a job manager at the workplace. The editor responds and manages his delivery.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u105	Mr President! Here Mr Kivelä, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, said in his speech that my concern about increasing political control when the strategy is transferred to the Board of Directors is pointless, because there is a firewall. What kind of firewall? Article 6 of this bill states that the strategy will be decided by the Board of Directors. If it says that the Governing Board decides, then the Governing Board will decide, in the final letter, what it says in the strategy. Of course it is an increase in political guidance. The strategy is the framework in which this company operates. It is of indirect importance to the contents. It matters what kind of studios the Finnish Broadcasting Company owns, for example. It has a direct indirect effect on what kind of programs they will be making, whether they are dedicated to major TV studios or whether they are owned by listening studios, by which criteria, for example, this studio base will be developed. It has a direct effect on those contents. I disagree with this parliamentary agreement, and no matter what is agreed, if it is found to be a bad solution, it must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u106	Mr President! We Social Democrats have traditionally been in a position to reduce the tax burden on low incomes. Then the other side of our economic policy has been that we must in some way guarantee the resources for the activities that we want to maintain. In the case of Yle, this problem now lives a little in this debate about the size of the Yle tax. When Yle-Tax was built to replace the old TV licence fee system, it was assumed that the Yle-Tax paid by the household in the household of two adults would be more or less at the level to which the TV fee would have to be increased the following year, when it was constantly falling apart and constantly had to be increased. This was the starting point for what the maximum of this Yle-tax could be in a two-person economy. It was then made in accordance with the formula so that the lowest-income earners did not have to pay any VAT at all and then with relatively small incomes already some. Now this problem is still in hand. The government has unilaterally gone to reduce the tax burden on low incomes, and this has upset us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u107	President! Of course, it is extremely sad in the Finnish media field that when the media houses have been in bloody competition and the financial situation is far from good, then Yle has been taken as a scapegoat. It does call the wrong tree: Yle is not responsible for the plight of media houses, but it is international players, Google or Facebook or many others, where advertising revenue disappears from Finland. However, to Mr Modig, I would like to quote myself on this: 'It is natural that journalistic independence must be safeguarded and no outside body can control journalistic content'. I am also referring to this: "A firewall has been built between the tasks of the Board of Directors and decisions on the contents of Yle, which is not undermined by the decision on the strategy."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u108	Mr President! I have not criticised you who love Yle-Tax, but I also have the right, even in the name of freedom of expression, to criticise it myself as a representative of the Finnish Parliament, and it was my criticism that Yle has grown significantly. It was originally a television and radio company, now it's on different social media channels, it's on the Internet and so on, it also came to news boards on the Internet or on the streets and many more. In this debate, I have not proposed the abolition of the Yle-Tax, nor the transition to advertising funding for YLE. I myself have pointed out that I do not believe that Yle can grow indefinitely, but that it must have certain limits where it operates, and that regional radios, culture, sport and children's programmes are the ones to be invested in. And the payments must be quite close to each other,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u109	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u110	Mr President! A few details of the Governing Board's report. The proposal of the parliamentary group will therefore bring structural changes to Yle's activities, the preparations for which have already begun. The proposal obliges Yle to increase the number of programme and service purchases from outside the company by 30 to 35 per cent by 2022, which will of course reduce Yle's own production. Other proposals of the working group for developing commercial media and Yle's cooperation are related to, for example, sports production and online cooperation, as well as regional news pages. The working group's proposal strengthens the Governing Board's position in such a way that it will in future adopt Yle's strategy. According to the motion, every political party that has received at least 3 seats in the Parliamentary elections must be represented on the Administrative Board. This is all right. Important decisions include the overall reform of the Yle Arena and the television channels. With the reform, Yle will have 3 broadcast channels on TV when Yle Teema and the Swedish-speaking Yle Fem channel software moved to a common channel site in spring 2017. In Yle's content and services, Finns focus especially on reliable information, news and the matter. The importance of information is emphasised in exceptional circumstances such as crises and accidents. The 10 most important issues include safe children's programmes, domestic software in their own mother tongue and general education, services for special groups, and regionalism and locality. It is also important for Yle to be able to better understand changes in its own society and elsewhere in the world. The public's wishes should be taken into account, and this has been the case, for example, when last year in Yle Areena Christmas seasons were released from the classic series Rintänmäkilainen, Metsolat and Kotikatu. In addition to the news, the most popular programs on Yle were sports, domestic drama and entertainment. In sport, the Ice Hockey Youth Championships, the European Championships for Athletics and Football, and the Rio Olympic Games gathered large audiences. The aim of drama production is to strengthen the expertise of the industry and open the way to international distribution of domestic content. The focus has been on relationships and crime series, which highlight Finnish culture, lifestyles and regional characteristics. The most recent dramas of the year included a series of crimes in Lappeenranta, Sorjonen — which was to be viewed — and a country comedy in the domestic mining business, Korpela, which reached millions of audiences at best. While watching programs on phones, tablets and smart televisions has grown significantly, traditional television has clearly decreased for children and young people who watched TV in 2016 for an average of less than an hour a day. Thus, the operating environment has changed dramatically, and the biggest changes in media use take place in social media services. The provision of an educational and linguistic quality programme for children and young people is also a challenge for Yle. According to the law, Ylen is also responsible for providing content and services to special groups for whom there is currently little other media offer in Finland. For those with hearing disabilities, Yle’s offering is commendable: daily sign-language TV news, Parliamentary Question Time and online videos for social media. In recent years, Yle has added sign language programs for hearing impaired people, such as fairy tales for children in Yle Arena and other children's programmes. In the spring of 2016, Yle presented the new six-piece sign language series Jarkko and deaf America, which gained great popularity. Public information is an important task of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. The hazard information system has been developed by automating the distribution of data sheets in Yle to different locations for publication. With the gradual introduction of the Erica system of emergency centres, the system will be completed once and for all. Mr President! The main development objectives of Yle focus on quality, diversity, cooperation and online services. The social responsibility of Yle includes ethical practices, financial responsibility for the efficient use of Yle tax and the important role Yle plays in the creative sector. Versatile content and services Yle produces value for society and supports the vitality of different population groups, regions, languages and cultures, as well as the inclusion and equality of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u111	Mr President! The reliability of the media and information is a very big issue at the moment, and Yle has been at the heart of that issue because of all the chain of events we know. I find it very sad that the chairman of the Board of Directors does not consider this report of a very critical year to be worthy of presence. Worldwide, the media has changed. We are living in a time of false news and we have seen that the avalanche of false news may even affect people’s thinking, which is very serious. For us, the Prime Minister's actions led to the serious loss of confidence in the freedom of the Finnish press. In Finland’s estimates, journalists without borders dropped from the top to third place, as a result of Sipilä’s way of interfering in the work of an individual supplier. And what's most serious, The Council of Public Word stated that Yle bowed to this pressure and gave up decision-making powers. This is now the question that really affects people's confidence in the Broadcasting System. No future change that is now being proposed in the case of YLE can be made without an assessment of this changed situation. This situation has changed since the working group did this work. In this situation, I find it quite incomprehensible that there is a desire to increase the political direction of the YLE. If the strategy is delegated to the Governing Board, it is an increase in political guidance. The current practice of setting guidelines by the Management Board has been adequate and fully operational to date. The Governing Board shall be responsible for ensuring that: Yle carries out its function as defined in the law, not taking a position on any kind of substantive issues. Here the chairman of the board said earlier that there is a firewall and the strategy does not take a stand on journalistic content. The strategy is the frame that controls the company's operations. Of course, the strategy does not direct the ideas of journalistic content, but it indirectly creates the conditions for what kind of content is made. What facilities the Finnish Broadcasting Company owns, such as studios, is relevant to what kind of programs and content are made. It is not the marginal programme which is not expected to attract millions of viewers to its difficult content that will be done in the largest and most expensive studio, but it will be done at the lowest cost. And what studios the Finnish Broadcasting Company owns is of indirect importance to what content is produced. It puzzles me that we do not understand the importance of the strategy indirectly in terms of content. Once this mantra has been repeated from this firewall: When this Article 6 of the draft law states verbatim that the Board of Directors decides on Yle's strategy, then the Board of Directors decides on Yle's strategy according to the last word, right? This means that any one of us politicians can propose a sentence to be deleted, repeat it to be added, and thus very strongly political views will have an impact on what Yle's strategy will be and in what direction it will take Yle's action. It seems to me when you listen to this debate that many of us in this House have lost sight of our role in relation to Yle. So many speeches in this debate take a stand on which programmes are good, what types of content should be made, what programmes were liked and what was not. But that's not our job. The law defines the mission of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. It is up to us to see that it is fulfilled that the Broadcasting Company is in line with the role that we in the law have set for it. That is why I do not think that the transfer of the strategy to the Management Board is a wise solution at this point, and I disagree with its parliamentary agreement. We are now living in an extraordinary time. So I've been a journalist before I became a congressman. I have been a freelance journalist for 16 years and I have also done a lot of programming content for YLE, and I cannot help but look at this question from that point of view as well. We are now living in a very different time than ever before. The Internet brings us an incredible amount of information. More information is available than ever before. That is why media literacy is needed more than ever, and the income logic of content producers has changed, and that is why, in my view, this unfortunate phenomenon, namely click journalism, has come to an end — that is to say, to get the highest possible attention value for the title, so that people click on the news, but then they may be quite out of line with the title and the story it tells itself. During this time it is all the more important that we actually have reliable data providers and intermediaries. And trust is a very sensitive issue. It can be lost in an instant, but it will take a long time to build. The mere suspicion that Yle is under political guidance or that politicians can influence its contents is disastrous for this confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u112	Mr President! The world is out of control, things don't always go as they wish. I think there has been a great deal of thought within the YLE and in the management of journalism about what went wrong, how it got so far that YLE received a decision from the Council of Public Word. When the debate, the analyses have also been followed and heard at the meetings of the Management Board and Bureau meetings, the only question left for us is how can we proceed there in the future so that this does not happen. What mistakes were made, and how did this happen? Everything's out of control. Secondly, an example of how not everything is manageable in the case of YLE is the debate that started in public about the fact that the minutes of the meeting of the YLE Board showed that at the meetings of the Governing Board, individual members of the Board of Directors had criticised YLE's programme policy with some degree of precision. I was the chairman of Yle's Governing Board during the last parliamentary term and, I recognise it here, did not know that we had those discussions recorded in the Governing Board's minutes so precisely, at least occasionally. I had the impression that they were perhaps more than the type of closure protocol and that these types of interventions were not recorded. But that was what had happened, and that is how this protocol became public, and there has been a debate which I am sure will continue, where professor-level people will see this as an example of the Board of Governors trying to intervene in journalism. I think it's the chairman of the board of directors. Mr Kivelä well said in one of his recent comments when this question came to the public that I did not start by strictly limiting the speeches made by the members of the Management Board at the meeting. I think that we in this Parliament must also have a certain freedom of speech. The fact that we are sticking to the journalistic independence of the YLE and we are now discussing the report of the Governing Board cannot mean that we should not say something about a programme or sport or why not a journalistic solution. I thought we should have freedom of speech here in Parliament, and on the board of directors. But then I also remember that at the meeting of the Governing Board, where I am already in the third parliamentary term, there has been the culture, perhaps until this Governing Board, that senior members of the Governing Board will be very quick to point out to the juniors if such a programme policy debate starts, that 'Hey, ladies and gentlemen, this is not part of this Governing Board, the Governing Council is no longer a programme council, as it once was'. This kind of culture has done quite well until this parliamentary term, but now, for one reason or another, this bubble... This was an example of not all things being properly controlled. And when the image emerges that the Board of Governors is directing journalism, it will be difficult for us to deal with it very quickly. I certainly do not want the role of the board of directors in any way to be strengthened, but rather, whether they are firewalls or whatever, I do understand Mr Modig's concern, although I may also agree with Mr Kivela's view on this form of'strategy decision'. I myself would have thought it might have been wiser if it had been written in the form of 'confirming the strategy', so that the strategy might decide, or at least prepare, the Yle government and functioning management, and then it would be as if it were to be confirmed by the board of directors. This would mean, in my opinion, that Mr Kivelä, the chairman of the Board of Directors, well describes it in his foreword, that it was a question of wanting to increase the supervisory role of the Board in one way. After all, it is the Governing Board's task to monitor Yle's activities, and while the strategy is also to agree on the way in which YLE carries out the public service mission, and its supervision is a matter for the Governing Board, it would have been one element to strengthen this strategy. Well, let us see where the parliamentary group that is now considering this and the committee group will end up with this law, but here I am talking about my own reflection. Mr President! One of the tasks of public service broadcasting is to support democracy, democracy and freedom of expression. I would like to mention a few examples of such production of YLE, which, in my opinion, are good examples of how this task is being carried out strongly. I always rejoice and put on Twitter that good, Yle's public service. One is the documentary broadcasts called Outline, which Yle does herself, which you buy from elsewhere — absolutely brilliant. Last time, a very profound, very comprehensive description and analysis of the United States, from which arose the phenomenon that we Finns might not understand, that Trump took up the presidency there, who went to vote for him and for what reason. From there, deep down in rural unemployment, in the midst of closed coal mines, a brilliant, important document, considering that we understand how democracy works. These are needed and there will be more, and there have been many of these situations in the Middle East and Ukraine. Then there is another time for the new programme format, which comes at regular intervals rarely, I do not remember its name, but I know that journalist Susanna Turunen is conducting interviews, interviewing European politicians in Brussels. Very intensive, very fast, very interesting analyses of what is happening, what is going on in Europe. These are the things we need, these are the ones that serve. In these, Yle is doing precisely that important task of the public service. There were some conflicting hopes in this debate, on the one hand, that Yle should add software that is of interest to young people in order to reach out to those young people. For a long time in its overarching strategy, TV2 has sought to reach more young adults and young people. There's been intense work done there. But at the same time it was said that Yle must show children’s programs, news, documents — that’s it. Movies, people who compete with pay TV, Yle can't show. I ask: what are we going to do to get young people on TV if we are going to restrict the content of its programme production very strictly? Mr President! Perhaps even to that extent, when this TV charging system was dismantled and this public service tax came, it was actually assumed that the maximum amount of the public service tax would be as high as the television charge. In a two - person economy, about 280 would have been the television charge after the next increase. It was set at the maximum double-life economy's High-Tax level, and then it was lowered down. That is how a solution was found in the parliamentary working group, which was not satisfactory to all, perhaps not to everyone. Others would have liked to see a faster progression, with the wealthier paying perhaps 500 euros a year in their household for it and so on. That debate took place, but such a compromise was found. Now that the government has started dismantling these lower income payments, of course, the revenue from that fund will also be reduced. We must now be quite responsible and careful not to make a decision, as it were, to drive down the operations and conditions of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, but to build more payload at the top. It must be politically reviewed in the parliamentary working group so that we know what the solution is and everyone can accept it and live up to it. We cannot make a decision like the back door that weakens Yle’s operation. There has already been talk here that there is insufficient money to buy expensive sports rights. The radio has had to operate. The combination of Femma and the Theme channel is one of the consequences of the tight economy, but for example, the representative of the RKP on the Board of Directors considered it a wise solution. This has been politically acceptable, but everyone has had to be flexible. I personally hope that we will have a joint game and a parliamentary one, i.e. a peaceful solution for all the parliamentary parties in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u113	Mr President! The radio is the whole nation's radio. The mission of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is to strengthen Finnish society and culture by providing everyone with information, education, insights and experiences. It's a great mission. It's a great mission. It's a mission. It's a mission. It's a mission. Yle's journalists, staff, extensively our entire society work. The radio is present in people's everyday lives. In line with this public service mission picture, we demand a great deal from the Finnish Broadcasting Company. We want to see sports events and games. We want drama, documentaries. We want culture on radio and television. We want entertainment, up-to-date programs, news and so on. But I personally am particularly pleased that the YLE is present in people’s everyday lives in many ways. From there, everyone can, according to their own preference, draw out programs and content that please their own consumption behavior. I am particularly pleased with the activities of Little Two, who celebrates the 40th birthday. I myself have had the opportunity to look at it in time, and my children and, hopefully, grandchildren will also be able to watch a high-quality children's programme with a safety perspective. It's programmed and it's been plotted on children's terms as well. So we want and demand a broad format for the YLE from different areas of life. Regional deliveries are one of the most important issues to be maintained at the meetings of the General Board of Yle. It is important for all of us that Yle is visible in the regions, it is involved in the activities of the region but, above all, it conveys the everyday news of people and the activities that are visible in the regions. And I believe that YLE also has a strong record in the objectives and operational content of YLE that YLE operates throughout Finland, in all areas, and it must also be visible in the programme provision. Mr President! With special satisfaction, I noticed when I read last year's activity report that YLE reaches Finns: Yle reached 70 per cent of Finns daily and 93 per cent of Finns at week level. This is a wild number. At the same time, 59 per cent of Finns reached Arena and television daily. At the same time, Finns rated 7.1 for Yle's significance in their media use. We didn't get a very good A, but this is a good grade, too. The Finns appreciate Yle. Yle got a grade of 8 for her social importance, and this is a good direction. Mr President! Much has been said in this Chamber about the work of the parliamentary working group and the working groups of the YLE. All the guidelines so far have indeed been agreed, unanimously, and I hope that the same line will continue from now on. The last working group, chaired by Mr Satose, advocated the clarification of Yle's tasks, its level of funding, its percentages of external procurement, the strengthening of the Governing Board's role in this strategic work and the role of Yle in other media cooperation bodies, which must therefore be increased. Therefore, the public service function picture has been clarified and Yle should be able to manage with an annual budget of EUR 473 million, and these index increases will not be made in the next few years at least. We will then come back to these pressures and issues in the parliamentary groups. The future Yle Group has now been set up, whose reflection is about how the Yle-Tax should be collected fairly. I, too, encourage you to think or think at least about the progress made in this taxation: could the same amount be brought together so that, for those on low and medium incomes, this Yle tax can be reduced? It is worth taking seriously this message that the level of funding for the YLE should remain at present, in my opinion, but we should consider whether the YLE tax can then actually be implemented even more fairly than it is at present. Then stay on the sidelines of this parliamentary working party and think about this. Mr President! A few words about Yle's future. YLE is, of course, preparing to implement these guidelines of the parliamentary working group, and that is a good thing, but at the same time strengthening and ensuring quality is a guarantee that the programmes and software of the Finnish Broadcasting Company will experience accessibility. Television and radio are being reformed, for example, in terms of channel content and locations. Network services are being developed, with a view to smooth and efficient operation and cooperation with different actors, which I mentioned, for example, that cooperation with commercial media is extremely important. In the next few years in particular, Yle will invest in journalism, drama and the content of children and young people. This Chamber has already spoken today about how Yle would reach young adults and young people better. It must be able to renew and produce the kind of content that young people want to watch and listen to and talk about. Social media is at the centre and of course online activities and Arena services. I would also like to remind you that Yle has a special place in our society to meet the needs of special groups. This is a very valuable task for the YLE, and we want to keep to it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u114	Mr President! Yle’s task is to take into account education and equality aspects in the software, to provide opportunities for learning and self-development, and to emphasise programmes aimed at children and young people, as stated in the law. This is a job Yle has done very well. For example, the news class is both an idea and an implementation method for a lot of teachers. I am reminding us in this hall of the 1970s, when Yle’s language teaching programs were inspiring Finns to study English. Now we have a national concern about the weakening of the mathematics skills of Finnish schoolchildren. At the same time, we are concerned that people of under school age are attached to games and programs that can be found on computers and tablets. Despite the fact that it has been forbidden here to interfere in the content of these discussions, I propose that Yle should take up the challenge and expand this education and training task and bring more math programmes into the ether now and in particular that programmes should be developed through Little Two, for example, to develop the situation of mathematical capacities of under-school age. This is a challenge for Yle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u115	Mr President! When mentioned here about this parliamentary working party that is considering this Yle-Tax, it has indeed met for the first time today and at the inaugural meeting the undersigned has been elected chairman of this working party. This working group is now considering this levying of VAT. But, as a whole, this level of VAT or the amount collected by it remains the same. This working group will have a mandate until 5 June, and the objective for the working group is that the objective of the group is to reduce the rate of public service duty specifically for low incomes, and the definition of the task is that it is the task of the group to assess the allocation of the public service tax to different categories of income and to make a proposal to amend Article 2 of the Broadcasting Tax Act so as to reduce the tax burden on low incomes and to exclude a larger number of the lowest incomes. The mandate of the working group shall not concern the definition of the tasks of the Broadcasting Group or the level of funding. In other words, this working group will not interfere with any indices or strategy or anything else. This mission description is very specific. That is what I wanted to say here that there will be no such vague picture of what this working group that has now been set up will do in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u116	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 6/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u117	Mr President! The government proposal proposes to amend the bankruptcy law, among other things. The aim of the proposal is to make legislation compatible with the European Union’s recast insolvency regulation. I think the proposal is very good and necessary. The Insolvency Regulation will continue to apply to the individual’s debt arrangement. In view of the underlying reason for the eventual bankruptcy, it usually starts from the fact that the company does not have the money to pay its bills in time. However, late payment does not yet mean that you will receive a default mark. A default mark shall not be awarded until the authority has determined that the payment has been defaulted. Often before this, most people have already paid an invoice or negotiated new payment terms with the creditor. In order to receive a credit default mark, it is usually necessary that the payment has been paid for more than six months and that the person has received several letters of recovery on the subject. But what if, for some reason, these reminder letters have not come or the authority has made a mistake? Then a person or a company is in trouble. However, no credit rating is provided without the knowledge of a private individual or a company. Customer information informs the person of his first credit entry by sending the first registration notification to the data subject. The notification shall indicate where the credit marking has come from and how long it will remain in the register. Credit information shall remain in the register within a specified time limit depending on the default marking. At the same time, it undermines the ability of an entrepreneur to act, for example. Of course, the retention of the order for enforcement and debt can be reduced by a maximum of one year if the person or company does not have any other entries in the register and the proof of payment of the debt is provided to the Customer Information. Mr President! This proposal is very good, but I would like to see more consideration given to the possibility for the entrepreneur to operate in the future when the company has received a credit rating and the company would like to continue its activities. After all, it is the intention that no company should go bankrupt in the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u118	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 9/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u119	Mr President! This government proposal for a law on the promotion of the use of biofuels in transport would provide for a more accurate double counting of the energy content of biofuels and would complement the regulation of the distribution obligation. The proposal would lay down the tasks of the Energy Agency in relation to these decisions on prior information. In addition, the requirement for greenhouse gas emission reductions under the Biofuels and Bioliquids Act will be strengthened. It is also proposed to amend the Energy Agency Act to refer to the Act on the Promotion of the Use of Biofuels in Transport. Laws are intended to enter into force on 3 July 2017. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the aim of the government proposal is to implement the European Parliament and Council Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the so-called ILUC Directive. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that the proposal of the government is necessary and appropriate and unanimously supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal as unchanged. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that the ILUC Directive is about changes to the so-called RES Directive to limit land-use changes and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions, which contains key provisions on biofuels and bioliquids and the sustainability criteria applicable to them. The Directive therefore aims at limiting land-use changes resulting from the use of biofuels and at promoting transport biofuels and other bioliquids produced from certain raw materials. In the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the regulation now being implemented is essential for operators in this sector. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the fact that, at the same time as the implementation of the ILUC Directive, a Renewable Energy Directive is already being prepared, RED II, which would replace this Directive from the beginning of 2021. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it essential to ensure continuity and consistency of regulation so that regulatory changes in terms of definitions, interpretation and practices are not detrimental to the conditions, investment and predictability of the sector. The ILUC Directive and the RED II Directive, which are still in preparation, are based on a detailed listing of the raw materials of advanced biofuels, so to speak, which qualify for double counting. However, detailed lists cannot be comprehensive and cannot successfully anticipate future technological developments, in particular as regards waste and asterisk-based raw materials, as stated in the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy in the context of the RED II Directive. According to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the proposed regulation has been based on consistent application of the Directive's list of raw materials. The committee also considers it to be clear that there are significant risks involved in amending the listing of the directive in national legislation. Effective implementation of the Directive requires the correctness, accuracy and clarity of national regulation. The objective of the instrument must be fully realised and implementation must ensure that national regulation does not create conflicts with EU-level regulation. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the so-called double counting in the ILUC Directive to be a key means of promoting the production of generated biofuels. The aim is that biofuels do not compete with food production for raw materials. The Committee also notes that many raw materials in accordance with the annex to the directive are also used for purposes other than the production of biofuels and that the market mechanism should, in principle, guide production to products of the highest possible value added. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that restricting the list of biofuels in a way that is different from the directive at national level would be problematic for companies planning biofuel production and investment. This would increase uncertainty and reduce interest in investment. In addition, the achievement of the objectives of the national energy and climate strategy requires the expansion of biofuel production if the targets are to be achieved by domestic production. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also points out that, from the point of view of the legal security of operators in the sector, it is essential that the law includes the possibility of applying for prior rulings on the classification of raw materials. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has raised the need for prior information on matters other than Article 5 of the Act. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that the interpretation of Article 5 in particular may be accompanied by interpretative questions for which there is a need for prior information. From the point of view of the legal protection of operators in the sector, it is the knowledge of whether the raw material is a material within the meaning of Article 5 that is essential. Any questions of interpretation related to other provisions of the Distribution Obligations Act are of a somewhat different nature. Moreover, the general regulation of the Administrative Act already requires the Energy Agency and the Tax Administration to provide the necessary advice. The Committee considers it important that solutions and guidance be sought in the future for the application of the law and for possible misinterpretations, including in close cooperation between the administrative authorities, in particular the Energy Agency and the Tax Administration. The committee therefore proposes that Parliament adopt the government proposal without amendment 17.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u120	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u121	Mr President! There is currently a hunting law under discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, and I really hope that this proposal that I have tabled will then be taken into consideration at the same time as the examination of this hunting law and this could be linked to it. The purpose of this initiative is to draw attention to the loophole in the Hunting Act, which makes it possible to act against the spirit of the law. The bill proposes to close a loophole by amending the hunting law so that the hunting right granted on the basis of the municipality of residence in Northern Finland would require the person concerned to be registered in the municipality at the end of the previous calendar year. The Municipality of residence Act allows for a change of municipality of residence several times a year. This is not, in principle, a bad thing at all, but it also opens up opportunities for abuse of the law. A person may change his/her books to the municipality and thus gain the right to pursue hunting on the territory of the State. However, such a person does not necessarily actually live in a municipality, but has filed a notification of move even if one of his friends in a municipality only uses the hunting right. Such persons change their books to their municipality for a short period of time during hunting, especially bird hunting. They pay no taxes at all to their municipality and move their books out of the municipality after hunting. At least in my municipality of residence in Savukoski, Eastern Lapland, such activities have been observed regularly. This has been referred to by a number of hunting local authorities and is also highlighted by the official opinion of the municipality, which is issued by the mayor and the chairman of the municipal council. In other words, the municipality of Savukoski has clearly taken a stand on this as a real problem. The current hunting law provides that municipalities belonging to the regions of Lapland or Kainuu or Kuusamo, Pudasjärvi or A person living in the municipalities of Taivalkoski has the right to hunt in his municipality of residence in areas owned by the state. One may then ask why such a right is generally granted and whether it violates the equality of citizens. However, it is a matter of compensation for the many other state-guaranteed services that are being built here in the large cities of southern Finland with state money, the people of the north are left without them. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated in 2010 that the local population can be given certain privileges in terms of hunting and that it does not violate the Constitution. This issue was strongly discussed in the discussion of the Hossa National Park Act in this Chamber. But then, for example, there is the large Urho Kekkonen National Park in the municipality of Savukoski. When the park was founded, the guarantee of the hunting right was one form of compensation that would compensate the residents of the park for the harm they caused. It was not intended that anyone living elsewhere who transfers his books to the municipality for a short period of time should have a hunting right. It should also be borne in mind that not only locals can hunt in the municipality when applying for a hunting permit in an appropriate way. There is a quota for out-of-towners to buy these hunting permits. Although it is a limited number and Savukoski as the wilderness of Eastern Lapland is the most wanted hunting destination. In fact, it happens every autumn that when you start selling chicken bird hunting permits, all the permits have been sold to Savukoski in the first half minute. The only alternative to hunting in Savukoski is to trick in accordance with the Local Government Act. This isn't in anyone's interest. I've had a lot of people ask me if you don't want tourists in that town. Tourists tourists, but why is there only this permission for locals? It is therefore possible that the municipality of Savukoski has very few inhabitants. All we have is a little over a thousand inhabitants. Our hunting pressure is certainly not great there. If, then, everyone gets on the hunt according to the fact that when they change the books to Savukoski, then it will be so that we also lose its right. Our hunting seasons can be restricted and even prevented from hunting altogether, and that is certainly not anyone's wish on this matter. Mr President! It is not appropriate to authorise a residence permit based on a change of place of residence. Similarly, those who have genuinely moved to the municipality since the turn of the previous year could apply for a permit in normal order during their first year. This would be a good exception because, for example, when you apply for qualified teachers or other qualified staff to work in your municipality, hunting and fishing opportunities are one thing to get people to come and live in your municipality. According to Article 5 of Law 1558/1995 on the tax procedure, the municipality of residence of the taxable person is considered to be the municipality of residence within the meaning of the Municipality of residence Act 201/1994 at the end of the year preceding the tax year. If my bill were to be adopted, the hunting right would be in line with this law. Where you pay taxes, there you will also get hunting rights to use government land. Would that not be fair to all of us?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u122	Mr President! Mrs Majala has made a very good initiative, which of course must be supported. But this should also take into account the fact that there are state countries in Eastern Finland and that they are not able to hunt in the same way as in the north. We have similar opera and music houses in Eastern Finland as well as in Lapland, and we hardly need anything else. In Hossa National Park hunting will continue to be prohibited unless you are a municipal citizen. For example, if I had lived in the Hossa area for 30 years, been the chairman of the hunting club for a long time and then moved after work to Kajaani, then I could not hunt in the Hossa area in the future, even if I wanted permission to do so. In my opinion, this is a clear injustice. As Mrs Majala said there, Savukoski is a very popular hunting area and those hunting permits are indeed sold very quickly to that area. Of course, it is not in any way out of the municipal population, even if the hunting permits were to continue to be issued there — it only brings money to the Savukoski region. In my opinion, hunting should be possible for people other than residents in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-11-ps-52.u123	Mr President! This is exactly what is discussed a lot over there, whether we want tourists there and what meaning it is if there are very many permits and opportunities for others to come hunting there. Hunting is based very precisely on how much of the stock of birds there is, how much of the game’s carrying capacity is, and how it can be managed. If so much is given to others too, there is a very short-term situation in which the local hunting right must also be restricted, and this situation will then be difficult for everyone. With the current systems, which are very accurate, we already know how much of those hunting pressures exist in that area, and we can grant permits accordingly. The number of permits has varied from year to year. The number of permits sold to these out-of-towners has varied greatly. After all, we hope that they will be able to generate the tourist revenues in the region, but there are only as many birds as there are, and there are no more permits to do so. Then, on the subject of Hossa, we discussed this very much. I was of the opinion that, with regard to Hossa too, the same situation is maintained that only locals are granted that hunting right in the park. It was, in fact, that at least I feared that this would be a precedent, after which there would also be pressure in Northern Finland for locals to have no special rights. It is a matter of state countries in Northern Finland, and they have been negotiated in the past. Would it make sense in Eastern Finland to be the same thing? I think it would make sense to be, but how do we deal with this? There are more people there than there are in the north. But we'll take it at a time. I really hope that this bill will now then be adopted.
