ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u2	Värderade Herr Talman! Social- och helsovård är enligt självstyrelselage Ålands behärighet. Åland har redan delvis genomfört en social- och helsovårdsreform för knappt 20 år sedan. Åland ska därför inte påverkas av rikets social- och älsovårdsreform. Regeringens målsättning har därför variant och är att reformens effekter ska vara neuterala för Åland. Trots målsättningen kan vi konstatera att reformen får betydande bieffekter på Åland. Framför allt gäller det Ålands ekonomiska självstyrelse, eftersom regeringen har tänkt finansiera reformen genom att änka kommunalskatten och höja statsskatten. Åland och ålänningar betalar statsskatt precis som alla andra finländare och det är därför viktigt att Åland inte får betala för en reform som man inte deltar i eftersom den nya landskapsmodellen, social- och älsovårdsreformen eller valfriheten inte kommer att gälla på Åland. Den korvetterande propositionen handlar om att försöka neutrisera effekterna på Ålands ekonomiska självstyrelse system. För det första föreslås ett åländskt landskapsavdrag för att neutrisera de direkta effekterna av reformen så att inte Åland och ålänningar får en dramatiskt höjd statsskat utan att vara en del av reformen, då social- och älsovård är Ålands behörighet. Regering och riksdag har inte Heller öjlighet att påverka de åländska kommunerna effectsom lagstiftningsbehörigheten för de åländska kommunerna hör till Ålands självstyrelse och Ålands lagting. Det åländska landskapsavdraget gör det därför i practicekken vöjligt för de åländska kommunerna att kvarhålla sin kommunalskatt på samma nivå som tidigare utan att totalskattegraden ökar för de åländska kattetagarna. Dossutom innebär det åländska landskapsavdraget att de kommunala avdragen, som vis är helt Ålandsspecifika, kan kvarhållas precis som tidigare. Förslaget till Ålands landskapsavdrag är därför bra och gör att effekterna kan neutraliseras så att de som bor på Åland inte får en kraftigt skärpt totalskatt, vilket skulle strida mot grundlagens princip om lasabehandling. Därför är jag nöjd med att den ox pragmatiska lösningen har hittats. Det är ändå viktigt att följa med hur den påverkar enskilda skattetagare och garantera att den inte negativt påverkar personer som exempelvis har inkomster och betalar Skatt i flera länder, något som gäller bland you give sjömän som som på Åland men som arbetar på de sju haven. Vård- och landskapsreformen får också effectter på kommunernas andel av samfundsskatten, vilket också får bieffekter på de åländska kommunerna. Det är viktigt att de effekterna noteras i propositionen, vilket man gör. Man föreslår att de åländska kommunernas minskade andel av samfundsskatten komenseras i samband med dimensioneringen av det nya avräkningsbeloppet, klumpsumun, ett förslag regeringen ska återkomma till våren 2018 effecter förhandlingar med Ålands landskapsregering. Jag är också nöjd över att regeringen drar tillbaka det förslag som i regeringsproposition 15/2017 gällde dimensioneringen av avräkningsbeloppet. Det är en sak som ricksdage inte firstdigt kan besluta, utan som kräver bifall av lagtinget. Förhandlingar om avräkningsgrunden med Ålands landskapsregering är därför helt avgörande för att kunna göra ändringar. Genom att återkomma till saken våren 2018 finns nu tid för sådana förhandlingar. Som vi också constaterade i remissdebatten om regeringsproposition 15 tidigare i år fanns säknefel i det man då föreslog. Därför är det bra att man nu drar tillbaka den raus delen av propositionen. Det finns dock en sak i propositionen som fortsättningsvis är problematisk. Om reformen genomförs som planerat kommer den i practicekken att utradera kattegottgörelsen, som är en viktig del av Ålands ekonomiska självstyrelsesystem. Skattegottgörelsen utfaller om Åland betalar mer 0,5 % av landsets direktrea Skatter. För skatteåret 2015 betalade Åland 0.71 percent av landsets Dekta Skatter, Vilket gör att Åland får tillbaka 23.9 million euros. Då statens inkomster total sett uppskattas öka med 12.57 milarder euro i och med reformen och det åländska landskapsavdraget införs, kommer det i practiceken att bli omöjligt för Åland att kompa upp till den gräns som gör att kattegottgörelsen utfaller. Att skattegottgörelsen, som Ålandsdelegationen fastställer, utraderas är inte förenligt med självstyrelselagen eller dess anda. Av den anledningen föreslår regeringen att Åland compenseras för bortfallet genom att regeringen och riksdagen i ställetupskattar och genom budgetbeslut verkstaller en betalning till Åland på samma nivå som kattegottgörelsen skulle ha variety ifall vård- och landskapsreformen inte skulle ha genomförts. Det kan tyckas vara en pragmatisk lösning som inte i euro och cent skulle ändra på saken, men den skulle minska Ålands självstyrelse effectsom mapten i practicen skulle flyttas från Ålandsdelegationen, ett organ som fastställs i självstyrelselage, till riksdagen. Lösningen är tänkt att reserve temporär tills att den nya självstyrelselage träder i kraft år 2022. Men Bettankandet för den nya självstyrelselageen har inte ens överlämnats till regeringen av den Parliamenttariska komittén anu. Därför upplever jag att förslaget gällande skattegottgörelsen är mycket problematiskt ur självstyrelselagens synvinkel och något jag vet att grundlagsutskottet noga komper att titta på. Ett bättre alternativ skulle fortsättingsvis vara att föreslå en brådskande ändring av självstyrelsselagen. En sådan lösning skulle kräva fem sjättedelars majoritet i ricksdage samt lagtingets bifall. Realpolitiskt och tidtabellsmässigt är det lite utmanande, men ur självstyrelselagens synpunkt skulle det vara det enda ragta eftersom det skulle göra att vård- och landskapsreformen skulle kunna göras neutral för Åland också gällande kattegottgörelsen. En sådan lösning är dessutom garanterat förenlig med grundlagen och självstyrelselageen. Jag vet att finansministeriet arbetat intensivt med den roi propositionen och att finansministeriet och Ålands landskapsregerings finansavdelning haft många och regelbundna öten för att lösa de problemam som vård- och landskapsreformen i practiceken innebär för Åland. Jag vill taga för ert hårda arbete hits, aven om jag vet att arbetet fortsätter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u3	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u4	Mr President! There is a very interesting matter of higher education policy on the table, with only a few brief comments at this stage. In general, our university policy debate has welcomed the fact that universities and universities of applied sciences have their own profiles — universities have science, research and the highest education, and universities of applied sciences have more practical education and research — but at the same time there is local cooperation. In this case of Tampere, there is a desire for a more far-reaching arrangement for which there is a strong local will, which, of course, must also be pursued very far. Benefits of administration, facilities, services etc. The relationship is also evident. However, this concern about mixing the roles of universities and universities of applied sciences is justified and requires reflection. It has indeed been said in general that local cooperation is important, but, in this situation, perhaps a larger national vision needs to be considered, including in this parliamentary vision work initiated by OKM. And it is also known that staff and student organisations have their own questions on this issue. The commitment of the entire higher education community to work and reform is important and these issues are addressed in committee work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u5	Mr President! This government proposal proposes the establishment of a new Tampere University from the beginning of 19. The new university would combine the activities of the University of Tampere, Tampere University of Technology and Tampere University of Applied Sciences, with more than 22,000 students and staff at the new university. The proposal also provides for provisions for all higher education institutions to extend cooperation between higher education institutions. In other words, higher education institutions could obtain compulsory education from another university. This strengthens the university’s profile in its strengths. The integration of universities in Tampere is a very worthwhile project in terms of administration, facilities, staff, services and these integrations. The Tampere region has been a strong university city region for a long time, and this new book of regulations was signed by several parties, public bodies, businesses and our business. The whole of Pirkanmaa is strongly behind this project. Of course, there are also threats here, but I believe that this cooperation and the benefits to be gained are greater than the threats. The main benefit is to create more flexible opportunities for higher education institutions to implement education and to profile themselves. This would allow higher education institutions to focus better on their own strengths and to acquire knowledge from outside that is at a higher level elsewhere. I hope that this is a good committee reading and that we will also take a position on this staff issue, which has not been completely painless in Pirkanmaa, as well as on the direction of both the staff and the students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u6	Mr President! This project and the draft law are from a local point of view, and there is a strong will for closer cooperation between universities in the region. In this proposal, it is therefore excellent that this allows for closer and more flexible cooperation between universities, and also encourages and better enables the profiling of universities and their own strengths to be taken into account. But there are also concerns about the role-sharing and task-sharing of polytechnics and universities of applied sciences, how it will be implemented in the future. It is very important to note, in my opinion and from the centre, that these roles are still kept separate, despite cooperation, so that universities of applied sciences can continue to focus on practical education and research, development and innovation-oriented research, while universities can focus on science and research and on teaching based on it. It is therefore important to keep these roles separate. This proposal will provide good cooperation and flexibility in higher education activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u7	Mr President! This government proposal is of great personal importance to me, not only because I was raised by the University of Tampere, but also because I personally contributed to this important entity when I was Minister of Education. The University of Tampere, Tampere University of Technology and Tampere University of Applied Sciences themselves, based on a study commissioned in 2014, estimated that closer cooperation between universities would contribute to the effectiveness of their activities. And on the basis of that study, the higher education institutions decided to pursue the formation of a new set of higher education institutions. Tampere, Pirkanmaa and, I believe, Finland as a whole, this project, the reform, the new University of Tampere, is truly significant – it is becoming the second largest university in Finland. The aim is to create a university entity that is internationally recognised in Tampere for the development of working life and Finnish society. This entity would therefore consist of the United University of Tampere and Tampere University of Technology and the university of applied sciences, which is mainly owned by the new university of applied sciences. The new university and university of applied sciences would be a strategically integrated entity, Tampere 3, which would create a common identity. The University of Applied Sciences and the University of Applied Sciences would cooperate closely with each other, as well as with the industry and public service providers in the region. The aim of the reform is to create an internationally high-level university of research in Tampere, which will focus on areas such as health, technology and society. The formation of a university body also aims to improve the possibilities for performing various university studies. This would increase the flexibility and diversity of study paths and shorten the total time of study, I believe. It is hoped that a diverse and strong set of higher education institutions will attract international researchers, teachers, experts and students. I personally see this increase in internationalism and its importance as extremely important. This applies to all universities, including universities of applied sciences, and I believe that in this respect these growing resources, and also the size of the university as a whole, will give this new university a more significant position in the international context. Mr President! There has been reference in the speeches here to this potential problem that the roles and tasks of universities and universities of applied sciences would somehow be confused or that reform would somehow lead to the wrong path. I do not believe that, because I understand that qualifications and qualifications structures remain largely independent. It is just a matter of increasing this cooperation with determination. I believe that the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy will then assess and draw the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u8	Mr President! I too am one of those who have graduated from Tampere University. In time I went to the Societal High School, but I received a certificate from the University of Tampere, which is when this phase was taking place. It has already been well pointed out that, when this is based on the will of a strong province and region, this type of cooperation is to be welcomed. After all, this cooperation does not have to prevent the role of universities being kept very clearly separate, and what is the role of universities of applied sciences. But this cooperation can make use of common spaces, shared competences and so on, so that both of them will benefit in practice. These so-called critical issues, some of which have already been raised here, will probably be examined in committee. The most important thing now is that this issue is well explained in that way, because in a way, this bill is now creating the model that can be used in other regions to build cooperation between different universities. All in all, administrative cooperation in a wider area is a good thing, and then, on the other hand, in the scientific world, it is also possible to support one another by not wasting resources. In other words, I am in favour of a thorough examination of this issue, but this will give a good head start to the fact that this is possible if the province wants to do so itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u9	Mr President! It is excellent that the actors in this area have been united locally and have taken this path, which is creating an ever stronger whole for the development of the Tampere region and for the development of Finland as a whole. The fact that a technical university and a university are brought together and thus benefit from integration is certainly good for everyone. That means, of course, in a long run at some point in time — when red tape begins to be dismantled when different actors are put together — that a few office jobs will probably be reduced there, but the current legislation in force makes universities completely independent, so that the local people there will be able to solve it in the best possible way. It is also a good thing that Tampere University of Applied Sciences is strongly involved in this work, because these three actors together are very important actors in the region. They are also extremely important actors for the future of this kingdom and for innovation. In other words, I do not see any risk in this reform; on the contrary, new benefits when small resources are combined and research and education is being created at an ever higher level are of great benefit to this country. I hope, therefore, that this issue will get a good wind under its wings and will be good for Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u10	Mr President! This Tampere 3 project, the Tampere University Reform Project, is very interesting from the perspective of people other than Tampere and Pirkanmaa, because this is, as Mrs Anttila has said very well earlier, a certain precedent for what type of development solutions might be made for the structure of our higher education institution in the future. Of course, it is quite clear that when the world changes at a huge rate, we will have to make reforms in the field of higher education. However, I personally hope that in future this university policy and higher education policy will not be seen simply through centralised solutions. Unfortunately, in recent years, there has been a little spirit here that when you just put schools together and concentrate higher education in Finland on a few cities, critical mass and development will be achieved. I don't believe in that kind of thing when I grew up in a county college. The foundation of Finnish culture, Finnish competitiveness, is a very wide network of regional universities, which was created 40 to 50 years ago under the leadership of the centre, and should continue to be maintained. Mr. Speaker! When there is also some discussion about the university of applied sciences, I myself would like to express a certain concern about the future of our universities of applied sciences. The universities of applied sciences have played a particularly important role in the regions where there is no regional university of their own, such as my constituency in southern and central Ostrobothnia. Kokkola, Seinäjoki and Ylivieska close by have benefited greatly from polytechnics. I would like to see new forms of cooperation with universities of applied sciences, for example, in the future. Maybe we could even give birth to new types of university. To the end, Mr President, in the case of universities of applied sciences, the University of Applied Sciences in Seinäjoki
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u11	Mr President! When such a referral debate is taking place, it is perhaps unnecessary to raise a point of view in this case, as I am now a member of the Committee on Culture. I myself have also been giving birth to the entire system of polytechnics in Finland, and I have been concerned in various years that I have seen universities of applied sciences also have the task of driving vocational education forward, its quality, its development and so on. In my opinion, now that these structural reforms are being carried out here and now and in the future, it is also important in committee to consider and clarify the importance of cooperation between universities of applied sciences also in secondary school and in this case — when the title says: University of Applied Sciences — for it is also developing Finnish working life, work and knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u12	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen has already addressed the importance of universities and universities of applied sciences in the development of their own province and region. We now have a good example of Hämeenlinna: there we had the Tampere University Philial, but now it no longer exists, and unfortunately it is also visible in the development of the vitality of the region, the whole province. Against this background, I really hope that we do not go down the road of making such a centralised system when these mergers or cooperations are being carried out. We must have the opportunity to develop and develop in every province, and the most important thing in that region is that there is either a university of applied sciences or a university of applied sciences, both in the major cities, because there are innovations and development activities that can be used to develop that province and its regions. Against this background, I hope that, in connection with this bill, there will also be a rather fundamental debate in committee about what is the network of Finnish higher education institutions. We need to keep it distributed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u13	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u14	Mr. Speaker! The purpose of this proposal is to restructure the legal security bodies for social security solutions, which deal with complaints about our social security decisions. I hope that this change, which is now under way in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, will be of the kind of one that will strengthen legal security and the rule of law in these social benefits too. In some places in previous years, Finland has received a few towels from those European fields, the Council of Europe and the Court of Human Rights, in connection with these procedures, which we have in appeals for social security. These are such things that, in the opinion of the legal profession, they are, of course, terribly small compared to what is being dealt with, for example, in court and district courts, but for the individual, these appeals for these various social benefits are extremely important. When a person seeks correction and complains about these matters, the life situation is really difficult, faced with difficult issues and, in a certain way, in the corner, it is important to ensure the legal protection of the appellant. Procedures should be developed in such a way that a person without any legal training or major basic training is able to apply for correction to these decisions. I also consider it very important that in future the case law should be more consistent and that the principles of law established by the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court should be respected as far as possible in these matters of social security appeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u15	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. General discussion, Chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u16	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the hunting law. Despite minor repairs, it has been quite a long time since the previous hunting law was adopted and the aim is to update the hunting provisions. 300,000 hunters experience hunting every autumn, and much has changed there, so it is good to break standards and clarify regulations from time to time, and that has now been done. The committee's deliberations were highly expert, we had good discussions there, and the final result was a unanimous report. We do know, however, that not everyone was able to make it, and then we will hear a slightly different view today. First of all, the regulation of the hunting law on the test of firearms would be amended in this law so that a firearm can also be used to carry out a shooting test and at the same time reduce standards, this certificate would, as such, be in line with the decision of the Administrative Law. The provisions relating to the fishing authorisation for cervids, the catch authorisation procedure and the general management of hunting were clarified in many respects. It is good to know who is responsible for hunting, and now the leader of the hunt needs to be clearly defined. We did some thinking about what happens when, for example, a very large number of hunters are involved in bear hunting, but we found that these situations will then be dealt with by assistant leadership. The problem, or essentially this kind of land habit, have become fragmented areas, which have then been added even after the actual authorisation decision. Now, with this legislation, the Finnish game centre will restrict the area of authorisation to areas that do not meet the requirements of area and unity. There may then be specific reasons for derogations in terms of area or coherence. A practical example is that mooses feed off an island before the normal hunting season begins, and this type of deviation can then be made, such as early hunting. The joint authorisation practice has now become commonplace, and we wanted to clarify this practice by means of legislation so that it is now recognised and recognised as a sensible practice. According to the Northern Local Government Act, some municipalities have hunting rights in their municipality of residence in areas owned by the state, and this matter was retained, and consideration was given to the balanced distribution of hunting opportunities. If more than one club is hunted in the same area, there are provisions for clarification. It is good that proper organisation is successful. The big question today is that bears or other large beasts have started to show up in the forests with food lures, and it has hindered hunting and has often made them familiar with human nutrition and the human scent. This wild waste is now wanted to be contained, and the committee's report concludes that waste should, in principle, be banned, but that, of course, small game hunting should continue to be allowed to waste or feed bait. Business-taxed companies are not covered by the Hunting Act, so we then did not take a stand on this issue in this report. A very important point for many traders is that we were able to amend the Code of Conduct on Deviation of Harassed Birds in such a way that the notification procedure will continue to be allowed for restricted groups. These relate, for example, to airports, food apartments, waste treatment facilities and berry and vegetable plantations of more than 1 hectare, fur farms, fish farms and shelters for farmed animals, as referred to in point (a) of the Aviation Act. This is relevant because up to now the authorisation has had to be applied for separately. Some organisations have regularly complained about these permits, and when the process may take up to several months, the strawberries have already been eaten before the permit comes, but now, with the notification procedure, we were able to break the unnecessary norm here too. In addition, there are smaller clarifications on a number of hunting issues and a separate observation, for example, that the committee considers it necessary to provide for a herb as a species to be hunted, so that the conditions for granting a derogation would be possible. We also took the view that there has been such an increase in the number of white cheek geese and cormorants that the transfer of them to hunting species should be considered. I thank the committee for its good work and I hope that the sensitive ear will continue to listen to how hunting should be developed in such a way that it will continue to be sustainable and serve our numerous hunters very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u17	Mr President! The proposed amendment to the Hunting Act contains many good clarifications and additions which are necessary and worthy of support. Improvements in the management of the hunt, in the limitation of hunting and in the catch declaration and in the register are particularly important. The appointment of a hunting leader creates responsibility and planning for fishing, which is mainly carried out in the form of company fishing, which must be carefully managed, particularly in the light of safety considerations. Limiting hunting in the event of a risk to the stock of game species is very necessary to respond to unexpected stock fluctuations or other changed circumstances. The introduction of the obligation to report catches will clarify the information on hunting catches of declining and sparse game animals, thus improving the monitoring of game stocks and the possibility of assessing whether the hunting of these species is sustainable. On the other hand, the committee has also undermined the changes proposed in the government proposal in its deliberations. With regard to the condition of the granting and use of the authorisation for the catching of deer, it is necessary to clarify the provision in line with current practice and to clarify the catch authorisation practice. However, the report also suggests that the Finnish game centre may derogate from the conservation period of a deer subject to a catch permit under Article 37 of the Hunting Act if the area is an island or if there is a similar specific reason for the area. According to Article 37 of the Hunting Act, the game species may be reassured for a limited period of time if it is necessary to maintain or secure the undisturbed reproduction of the stock. During the calming period, the game animal must not be hunted or harmed or bellowed, washed or reared. Article 24 of the Hunting Decree defines a general calming period for each game, which aims to ensure that the game stocks are taken care of at national level. The addition proposed in the report would significantly undermine the protection afforded by the precautionary provision in order to safeguard undisturbed reproduction and the possibility of providing sustainable game populations. According to Article 41 of the Hunting Act, the Finnish Game Centre may already grant permission to derogate from the tranquilizers provided for in Article 37 under the conditions laid down in Article 41c. The addition now proposed would therefore simply add to the already existing exemption practice an unnecessary and degrading procedure for game stocks. Therefore, the proposed addition is not to be supported. Mr President! A new Article 34a was proposed to be added to the hunting law in the Government’s proposal, which always introduced a ban on the attraction of bear, wolf, glutton and lynx for the benefit of nutrition. In addition, a Government decree could also have limited the deliberate attraction of foxes, badgers, ferrets, weasels, raccoon dogs and mink using food. However, this prohibition would not apply to undertakings engaged in nature photography and nature view activities, which is necessary for the conditions under which they operate. This whole paragraph was a necessary proposal which received praise from environmental organisations. In its report, however, the committee has substantially changed the basis of the government proposal, so that the ban on the use of a food inducer would not be directly defined by law, but could, if necessary, be prohibited by a regulation. The attraction of large predators has increased in recent years, especially as a result of the spread of game cameras. The surveillance authorities have found more and more indications that attractions based on smell and food have been used in the hunting of the bear in a way that has sought to attract bears to a particular location before the start of the hunting season. When such food baits are removed before the start of the hunting season, it is not directly responsible for a hunting offence, but it is clearly in the grey area. For the sake of clarity, it would be logical to prohibit any deliberate feeding of the bear and other great beasts. The prohibition of the use of a food inducer is primarily aimed at preventing large predators from getting used to the smell of human beings when they go to people’s terrain with food lures. The ban would probably reduce the problems that this will cause in the future, such as the growing fearlessness of the behaviour of large predators towards people. Excessive feeding can unilateralize animal nutrition and alter their behaviour. Therefore, the formulation of the basis of the government's proposal is a more effective way of prohibiting the use of food inducers. Mr President! The government's proposal also includes a proposal to exempt game birds and unsettled birds from the notification procedure instead of the authorisation procedure. There is no real need for a new notification procedure replacing the exemption. The Finnish Game Centre may currently grant derogations under Article 41b of the Hunting Act for the capture and killing of game birds and unsettled birds if there is no other satisfactory solution and the decision does not prejudice the maintenance of the favourable conservation status of the species. The derogation is therefore the last option and is intended to remove harmful individuals, not to reduce the stock of the species. The protection of species during the breeding season has not been achieved, as much of the catch is dated at the breeding time. The current situation gives rise to great concern in the bird protection community. The purpose of the pedestal protection is not to kill the chicks in the nests. Instead of shooting, birds must first be expelled by means that are durable, such as intimidation. According to the explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal, exemption decisions have typically concerned the safeguarding of public health and public safety, the safeguarding of air safety, the prevention of serious damage to farms, domestic animals, forests, fishing waters and watercourses and the protection of fauna for the purpose of game management. The Finnish Game Centre has made such decisions, which are mainly directed at a large number of species of birds, at the most on an annual level, about 650. The notification procedure in the proposed amendment is justified by a reduction in red tape. However, the need for a notification procedure is not great. The last reduction in exemption bureaucracy was in 2013 when a five-year derogation was introduced, which significantly reduces the annual workload and costs of applicants. However, it is important to note that this is a derogation scheme based on the Birds Directive, derogating from species protection obligations which cannot be waived. Derogations from the calm or other protection provided for in Article 7 of the Birds Directive may only be granted under the conditions laid down in Article 9. In addition, Article 9 requires annual reporting on derogations and catch levels. The notification procedure now presented does not meet the requirements of the Birds Directive on the identification, accuracy and clarity of regulation. This was also the case with the Ministry of the Environment in its own opinion. I would also like to thank the environmental organisations for their clear message to the committee. As a result, the possibility to appeal the notification procedure was improved in committee on the basis of the views of the Ministry of Justice. The Greens do not, however, support the amended notification procedure. We are not in favour of reducing the criteria for the Birds Directive and for nature conservation. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that the draft law amending the hunting law be adopted otherwise in accordance with the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, with the exception of Articles 27, 34a, 41a and 41b and Article 75(1)(5) and (8) and Article 90 modified according to the proposed amendment distributed to the table. These will be discussed at tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u18	Mr President! I believe that the reform of hunting law is a very welcome piece of legislation, which I fully support. Some 300,000 hunters on that terrain operate under the Hunting Act and operate in a very responsible manner in handling game. Anyone who opposes hunting should remember that the majority of hunters never catch. For example, dozens of hunters from my acquaintances in the Ilomants region do a huge amount of game management work each year without getting any prey. They're the best naturalists. Let this also be known to those who doubt what it is to hunt. It is also a natural treatment from the very best point of view, the removal of harmful animals, such as asking for wild minks, asking foxes and asking for weasels, which means that it is a genuine work for Finnish nature. Very few hunters get game on a hunting trip, and in many cases it is only pure game management. This is something you should remember. The fact that spring weapons come under the gun test and thus receive official status is a very good thing. That's real hunting when you go hunting with a bow. I've been watching a bow hunter approach a bear once. Of course, he didn't shoot that bear, but I was just giving him the wind, and I would have told him that this situation was such that he wouldn't dare to shoot it — and it shouldn't have been with that kind of gun, of course, and that was not the case. But it is an example of how spring hunting from the United States has spread to us, and so with this law it is getting official confirmation, as it were. The clarification of permits for elk hunting and the strengthening of the role of the head of hunting are quite right. After all, most of the problems that arise in the case of deer hunting are due to the fact that there are small problems and unclear issues in the management of its organized hunting gang, but now that the law makes them clear, we can find a situation where, on the law side, things are clear and therefore come to the attention of all hunters and also hunting clubs. In other words, this is a very good state of affairs. Then this denial of different forms of waste in this country is a very good thing. I am quite sure that, at the moment, the lack of control over the major predatory situation in very many cases is due to the fact that there are far too many of these food inducers in Finnish forests. Now, when we get this law up to date, we get to the point where these scavengers have to be removed from the forest and this kind of artificial feeding of big beasts ends. I always thought that when it comes to a wild animal, it must get its bread out of that wild forest without man’s help. Everyone knows, for example, Yellowstone National Park, and that is exactly what they do there. There it is strictly forbidden to feed wild animals of all kinds, and so it should be in Finland. One of the reasons why there are so many of them in the village landscapes where wolves go around is partly due to food lures. Of course, there are many more wolves than official information at the moment suggests, but one of the reasons for the current situation in rural areas is these food incentives. Well, now in this new legislation, in the new legislative proposal, which has taken the form of a report after a very good reading by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, this will be all right. I think this decision is very wise and I hope that it will be understood here and that the hunters will know from now on that the waste as such will cease from this country. It will also bring this great predatory situation to much better control. Mr President! Finally, this amendment to the law relating to the hunting of the female is very welcome. I myself have seen an increase in the female population. For example, in my municipality of Ilomants, I have noticed that even local crows are in distress when the females have taken over their markets completely. That this is, in a way, an unbalanced situation that we currently have in Finland. Mrs Kalmari, the chairman of the committee, said about the hunting of geese, and finally I would like to say something about that. On May 22, I was in central Karelia on a business trip to Kite. When I came home, I took some pictures of a farmer’s field where a white - cheeked goose had landed. It was not a small herd, it was tens of thousands of geese, and in practice, according to its visual estimate, the yield of about ten hectares of arable land was certainly completely lost. The geese had eaten the crop of that field completely smooth. In Finland, we have gone completely off the list of endangered species in this Habitats Directive — almost all of them becoming endangered species — and this has led to these hunting bans and intimidation bans being in force. We could take the example of Estonia or Sweden, for example, where this matter has been dealt with sensibly and there will be no damage, but the Finnish ultra-preservation work has gone completely wrong when not even the nature directive is to be complied with and not the assessments required there. That is why this situation arises when the interpretation of the Habitats Directive at one time was completely wrong. The directive did not allow assessments of the welfare and stocks of different species and good areas of occurrence to be carried out, but was designed to obtain the highest possible number of protected areas, some 5 million hectares. Now we are dealing with this problem. I hope that one day this will bring about the situation required by the Habitats Directive. Of course, it requires a ruling from the Court of Justice, but we have a problem in Finland that the Supreme Administrative Court has considered it a matter of protecting the situation in which the directive is not being complied with in this country. It is an entirely unjust situation that people are not given the right, the right that the European Union's legislation above Finnish law provides as a guiding factor for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u19	Mr President! Good speeches have been heard here, which have supported this bill, and there is no need to repeat them. I would just like to raise a few points which, in my opinion, were raised in this committee work and which I consider important in this legislative reform. First of all, I'm going to take this transport of a hunting weapon. At the moment, the law prohibits the transport of a hunting weapon on the ground by means of a motorised vehicle, and it is strictly limited. If you want to move by snowmobile, for example, along the ice deck from place A to point B, the transfer route must be announced in advance and the police district chief may grant a separate permit. Everyone understands that it is extremely difficult, complex and unnecessarily employing authorities. This bill now gives a little freer hands to carry a gun off the ground. Also, if you pick up a predator from the terrain, for example, you pour a moose behind a road that you don't know, and you go for it with an aviator or some other means of land transport, this applicant, if you have a gun in your hand, or, for example, you can't ride with a firearm on that motorised vehicle. Everyone understands that the situation is rather tricky: you can't leave that gun on the ground if you're going to ride that motorized vehicle and then take it to some side of the road. This makes sense, in line with the Government Programme, to address these problems and it has been pointed out that this is the way to go when picking up the catch. In my opinion, this is a clear and good reform. No one should think that this is now the time to free movement with a gun, so that it is possible to commit hunting crimes — this is not the issue; it is precisely the question that it is strictly regulated that if, for example, you pick up a prey, then the weapon may be involved. The female has come up in a few speeches, and it is also extremely important to me, and I have, as I recall, asked at least two, even three, written questions on the subject of the female. Farmers have contacted and know and tell — the female is quite common as a bird, although it has been reassured because of its rarity — that they have problems when the female, of course, goes through a very small hole in grain silos and grain ponds, grain stores or feed shelters, stays there and then spreads something into cereals and grains that may be passed on to animal feed, causing diseases and others. The committee considered it important that the female should be transferred from the nature protection law to the hunting law, thus facilitating, for example, the removal of the female from such barns or livestock shelters, where the female clearly and clearly causes damage without resorting to a complex authorisation procedure. According to my interpretation, the female is likened to a gray man and a rake, which makes it much easier to remove it — also, of course, given the peace of nesting and these others, they are for granted. Some speeches have been made on the food lures of large predators, and I agree with the previous speakers in saying that hunting is extremely difficult in those areas where the food lures of large predators are used. For example, we know that the bear is omnivorous, uses berries, mushrooms, eats meat, but also uses grain for its food, and when hunters have previously made game fields — planted oats, fodder cabbages and so on, this game field has been feeding chicken birds, it has been able to feed rabbits, deer, deer and wild boars, and other foxes running after the moles — and this game field has been quite extensive, could you say, a salad table. Now that the hunters have known that bears too may visit these game fields, then they have not dared to sow these game fields anymore, because they fear that if the bear goes in or near the game field and the dog goes and takes the bear barking and the bear may be felled miles away from that game field, then the hunter may be accused of a serious hunting crime and may claim that the hunter has shot the bear using a food lure when the bear has been in the game field or near the game field when the dog has taken the bear barking. This is a problematic situation, so the committee considers it important that the plan for bear care clarifys the use of this food inducer. Here are the main points, Mr President-in-Office. The clock is ticking, but I think that this hunting law as such is an excellent whole, and I thank the committee for a very good and constructive debate, as the President-in-Office said. We think that we have a good and good report to this effect, which contributes to hunting, which is better than hunting. I hope that this will also bring new enthusiasts to the wilderness trails. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u20	Mr. Speaker! Juha Sipilä's government has now been sitting for about two years, and every now and then we parliamentarians who represent the government parties come up with questions in that region and province that you have really accomplished there. Quite a lot of questions come from rural areas and regions in Finland as to whether there has been any improvement in the past. It may be said that this amendment to the hunting law and the excellent report of the committee that we have before us at the moment are the things that have been achieved in the government. This is a very positive piece of legislation that will facilitate the everyday and practical life of those provinces in Finland and rural areas. This bill can be seen in many ways as part of the dismantling of bureaucracy in the Sipilä government, as part of the dismantling of bureaucracy, as part of the streamlining of regulation and as part of better legislation. This will facilitate the hunting season of many hunters, the practical things that have been brought up in the hunt and have longed for clarification. Hunting is a very good and great hobby. It is a very suitable and good hobby for young people too, and it is a very good way, as has been very well described here in previous speeches, to maintain such a living, healthy relationship with nature, a realistic relationship with nature. I would also like to add my voice to Mr Hongisto's statement that this issue of the female is something that speaks very much to Finnish farmers, and these females cause quite a lot of problems there around agriculture. Furthermore, I think that, in cooperation with the European Union, we should also consider, in relation to these species protected by the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, whether they are still in the right place — not necessarily in many respects. Mr President! Thank you very much to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u21	Mr President! Of course, sustainable hunting is a popular hobby and also a sustainable source of food. The Greens largely support this government proposal. On that toilet earlier, I justified some of the changes in the articles that our group has. In my view, Mr Hoskonen spoke sensibly about the ban on food inducers, i.e. this ban on waste disposal, for example, to attract bears to their hunting. That is an important objective. I therefore find it very regrettable that the committee went to weaken this. In the original government proposal, waste disposal would be prohibited by law, but now it is left at the level of the regulation. This, in fact, also puts hunters in an unequal position if others can use a scavenger to attract prey and thus make it easier to shoot bears at a scavenger. Another key issue is the deviation from the calming seasons and the amendment of the article against the Birds Directive. This has to do with this exemption for unsettled birds during the breeding season of birds. There has been a derogation procedure in the past, a procedure which is quite clearly and simply applied for every five years, which is now turning into a notification procedure for many operators. The committee also expanded the areas of activity covered by this notification procedure. When the government's original proposal included airports, food apartments, waste treatment facilities and berry and vegetable crops of more than one hectare, the committee also added fur farms, fish farms and farm animal shelters. It is therefore very questionable whether this definition is still in line with the precise definition of the Birds Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u22	Mr President! We must thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and especially the President-in-Office of the Council for having, for once, gone there to legislate on the terms of the citizens. Now the bureaucracy has been abandoned. Now we have rejected the point of view that a bureaucrat or an official may have, and now we are going to support the hunting activity of the citizens. Mr Hongisto has already made quite a good speech here about what is good in this government proposal and what the committee added to it. This is the transport of a hunting weapon: it is not the intention if people hunt, that they always have to fear that the police will come and be fined if there is no crime going on, that is to say, this going on practical terms is of paramount importance. The classification of the female has been changed — it makes sense. The status of game was changed — it has in practice caused problems, but hopefully not now. Then we even went so far as to be able to deviate from this calming period in the case of an island or other similar area, because it is important to people. When the elk can leave the island, they follow a certain historical pattern of travel and movement, why, then, as legislator, would we not help the people to whom this matter is important? Thank you for this, too, to the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u23	Mr President! Thank you very much again for this debate. I am responsible to Mr Karimäki for these fur farms, fish farms and farm animal shelters: In our opinion, they are very clearly limited and, in fact, even the number is not quite impossible. It is very important that we can continue to achieve food hygiene and not, for example, endanger the health of consumers with avian influenza. Therefore, for example, in farm animal shelters it is very important that harmful animals, harmful birds, can be removed. One more thing we did not notice from the members of the committee: I also think it was a very good thing that the committee also worked on the catch report. We wanted it not to become an additional requirement for hunters as a general practice, but to be seen here too, whenever new provisions are made. The announcement makes perfect sense when, for example, it can safeguard the hunting of species whose number is not really known, but we do not want it to be a general practice. Indeed, these hunting issues will continue to be pursued in cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u24	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 9/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u25	Mr President! This reform is of a relatively technical nature, based on the statement made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the context of the overall reform of the Water Act, which was approved by Parliament, that the provisions restricting the protection of the property of the Water Act should be better prepared in line with the Constitution. This has been the starting point for the preparation, i.e. the regulations on redemption and the establishment of the right of use. In addition, there is a reduction in practices to the extent that the scope of the projects subject to authorisation is limited by the fact that the placing of the management, whether it is an electric cable, a water pipeline, a sewage system or another pipeline, under the freeway, is no longer subject to authorisation in all cases, but that authorisation is determined according to the impact of the project. The report is a long, very technical one, and it went through the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u26	Mr President! This is one of the government's proposals and committee reports that do not wake up to any sort of social brain and certainly do not bounce off the public sections. Just as the chairman of the committee said, this is very technical, but nevertheless very important legislation, because this is about the fundamentals of the protection of property guaranteed by our Constitution and how it can be addressed in certain water management and water law projects. It could be described when I myself spent quite a few days in the Constitutional Committee discussing this as a bill and a legislative project that contributes to bringing the final points into line with the Finnish Constitution, which came into force in 2000 and entered into force in our legislation and legal order. This legislation, the way in which these lacks and limitations on access to water have been made in the past, has been very old, it has been based on that post-war world and that post-war world, and it has not been in full harmony with our present system of fundamental rights. It is very good that this has been modernised. Mr President! In this context, I cannot fail to say that, when there is a great deal of debate in Finland about the level of our drafting of legislation and whether the government's proposals that come into this house have been prepared in such a way that they are sufficiently compatible with the Constitution, this was an exceptional government proposal that even the experts in the Constitutional Committee praised the fact that there has been good drafting of the law and that these requirements of our Constitution and our Constitution have been very well taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u27	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u28	Mr President! This proposal is therefore based on a parliamentary working party, but since the work of this parliamentary working party, Yle has been in a great deal of turmoil, and the world has changed in this regard in such a way that I believe that the positions chosen by the parliamentary working party would have needed a fresh look in this new period. Personally, I see that the decision on the strategy contained in the proposal, its transfer to Yle's Governing Board, is not a wise solution. The Mäenpää report is not worth it either, but it calls this solution into question. This will increase the influence of politicians in Yle's solutions. We all thought that we would have agreed on this after what Prime Minister Sipilä has done, but we have nevertheless gone in this direction. That is why I am going to make a proposal which I hope will allow us to follow this matter and to correct the mistakes later if this fear of mine is realised. In this previous debate it has been argued that this is not a dangerous option, that there is a firewall and that the Board of Directors decides on the strategy, that politicians do not have access to the content. I see it quite differently. In my opinion, this is precisely the removal of the firewall when politicians are able to decide what is to be done in the Yle strategy. What, then, is the impact of the strategy on substantive solutions? It's indirect, but it definitely has an impact. What solutions Yle's strategy makes in terms of production equipment, studio capacity, delivery structure, regional delivery has a very strong — indirect but very strong — impact on content solutions or on the possibilities that it will be possible to make substantive decisions in the future. We did not put forward any articles on this, because this was the unanimous solution of the parliamentary working party and we want to encourage the Left Alliance and we consider it important that there is parliamentary cooperation. But that is why I am making a proposal here, which reads: 'The government requires that a parliamentary working party be set up to assess the impact of this change on the journalistic independence of the YLE and the transparency of information. The evaluation should be carried out by 2020 at the latest."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u29	Mr President! The statements are a tool given to us to respond to rapid changes in the social environment in an otherwise slow institution. I support Modig's motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u30	Mr President! Yle’s Board of Directors is a parliamentary institution chosen by Parliament, which can also assess the impact of the amendment to the Yle law within the framework of its mandate. I do not understand why a separate parliamentary working group set up by the government would add some added value to this. Moreover, as a group appointed by the Government, it would be more closely linked to the Government than the Board of Directors, which is elected by the Parliament. A separate group would, above all, undermine the role of the Management Board. In addition, in today's news YLE announces that it will launch a regular independence assessment carried out by an independent external auditor. When we traditionally have independent YLE in this country, Parliament’s YLE, if we make such an additional overseer on top of it, there’s a little thing going to happen about Santa becoming a guard of the cabbage country. Now it is also worth considering who would be assessing the independence of the YLE during the current regime. It would probably be a government-led task force, which would undoubtedly undermine the independence and objectivity of the YLE, and it would also be in danger of reducing freedom of expression in YLE, so it does sound pretty crazy this change that is now. We have just gone through quite a tumult in YLE, and the YLE has also learned from this. There are also currently discussions on what will be the role of the Governing Board in the future, so I do not think it wise to make such a big change at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u31	Mr President! I understood from Mr Tolppanen's speech that I have a need to clarify my proposal in that I am by no means proposing any parliamentary working party that will always be in parallel with the other decision-making system in Yle, but that by 2020, an appropriate time before that, a working group would be set up to assess what this change in Yle's practices will have to do. This is a very big change and, in fact, this statement can be found in the committee's report, so this is in line with the unanimous position of the committee, which is in line with the content of the work of the parliamentary working party. This would simply give Parliament a natural means, an appropriate number of years from now, to look at the situation whether my fear came true or whether this new system works as it is hoped that this invisible firewall would somehow block the influence of politicians.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u32	Mr President! I am sure we will have to discuss this issue again, because it is difficult for me at this point to see the benefits of having two different kinds: an external independent auditor who is now thought to set up, and then an observer who left this Chamber again. I am very afraid that if we start to look at how the YLE works, the policies, the policies, the manner in which freedom of expression is carried out, the manner in which objectivity is achieved, even though the idea is good, I fear that it may lead to the wrong kind of boards. This is, of course, something that needs to be discussed and discussed and seen how to move the matter forward, because it is certainly important for all of us that we have an objective YLE and we have a wide-based YLE. We are currently living in the turmoil of the media world. We have different ways and styles to tell things. We also have the tools to talk about things. I can tell you that next week, among other things, I will have to reboot my TV because of some miracle of high definition, but it has to be done if you're going to follow these things. There are so many things going on here that, of course, there is reason to be careful that the Finnish Broadcasters and Operators, the Editors, have the opportunity to act in such a way that no outsider, especially a political influence, is trying to dictate what is allowed to be told in the Finnish Broadcasting Company and what is not allowed to be told there. The most important thing is that YLE remains open, objective and fair as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u33	Mr President! The role of Parliament is the law of the Law on Broadcasting. The role of Yle’s Governing Board is to ensure that YLE complies with what is included in that law and the spirit of the law. Now this change in the fact that the Governing Board decides on the strategy is very big. So here is a shortcut to the fact that politicians can decide what Yle is doing. In an earlier speech, I tried to describe how it indirectly affects even substantive solutions. Mr Tolppanen questioned the usefulness of setting up this working group. What I see in it is that, when the Yleisradio is in a big change, the media field is in a big change, by accepting this statement we would agree on a common timetable, when we will next sit down parliamentaryly and see if the change has been good or bad for Yleisradio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u34	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u35	Värderade Talman! Regeringens heletsreform av studytodet, som bland you give innebär att studerande som omfattas av bostadstillagget ska överföras huvudsaklgen till det allmänna bostadsbidraget, medförde ett oklart läge för studerande från riket som studerar på Åland. Den lagstiftning som nu är avsedd att träda i kraft den 1 augusti har resultsrat i att fastländska studerande som studerar på Åland varken skulle omfattas av det allmänna bostadsbidraget eller av bostadstillagget. De fastländska studentande som bor på Åland och de som sökt till studiier på Åland från och med höstterminen hartså inte vetat säkert om de kommer att få fortsatt bostadstöd under sin studietid på Åland. Det verkar som om man helt enkelt inte hann utreda alla eventuella consekenser av ändringarna under lagförslagets beredning, däribland vad lagförslaget skulle innebära för Studerande från riket som tuderar på Åland. Den kohta problematiken lyftes fram redan under kulturutskottets behandling i vintras, och ministeret lovade då att återkomma med ett nowt lagförslag som skulle lösa problemet innan lagändringarna är avsedda att träda i kraft i augusti. Därför är det glädjande att det nya lagförslaget nu ligger på brodet och är färdigt behandlat i milöutskottet. Ändringen är alltså i det närmaste av k karaktär, men är valdigt viktig då den kommer att trygga rätten till bostadstillagg på ett så liskärdigt jätt som möjligt för de fastländska studerande som studeria på Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u36	Mr President! This report on the Environment Committee is unanimous. The aim is to clarify the position of students: Finns in mainland Finland who are studying in Åland and people from Åland who are studying in Mainland Finland. Housing allowance is covered by Åland's self-government and therefore the systems are slightly different. As a result of this change, a Ålandish student studying in Mainland Finland who receives housing allowance under Åland legislation is not entitled to the housing allowance provided by the Finnish legislation in mainland Finland and, accordingly, a Finnish student studying in Åland receives housing allowance in accordance with the Finnish Student Support Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-13-ps-68.u37	Partly for a single, partly second reading will be presented on the 14th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report YmVM 8/2017 vp by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Protocol to the Convention is decided at the sole reading and then at the second reading on legislative proposals.
