ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 12/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u2	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on the representative of bondholders. In addition, the proposal proposes to amend eight laws, which would mainly be subject to clarifications and technical amendments resulting from the new law. The Government's proposal aims to improve the functioning of the bond market, improve the conditions for corporate financing, diversify the financial markets and increase investor protection by providing for a light, clear and largely voluminous legislative framework. The laws are expected to enter into force in autumn 2017. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes in its report that the proposed regulation is largely volitional, although it also contains mandatory provisions. A cross-cutting principle of regulation is the balance between investor protection and the light regulatory framework to support the development of bond markets. The proposed legislation includes, in addition to the standards governing representation and related by-laws, provisions on registration as a representative and on the supervision and sanctions of the representative in the event of infringements. According to a report received by the committee, there is no, and there is no, EU-level regulation on bondholders, which is why the committee considers that national regulation is necessary and appropriate. The need for the proposed legislation relates, above all, to the removal of legal uncertainty as regards representation and related bystandresponsibilities. Market participants — investors and issuers — must be confident that the legal framework for the use and representation of the representative is clear and predictable. The committee also notes that, in the current absence of specific regulation on the representative of bondholders, the representative's formal legal status vis-à-vis the bondholders he represents is possible in a number of different ways, which is likely to create uncertainty. The status of a representative may be considered to be in conformity with the authorisation procedure under Chapter 2 of the Law on property proceedings, in which case the delegate acts on behalf of the entity he represents, but usually falls outside the jurisdiction of the person to be decided. The authorisation has a number of elements in favour of its use, including the fact that the right of collateral established in favour of bondholders cannot be considered to be part of the bankruptcy assets of the authorised collateral agent. The problem with the form of representation is related to the prevailing position of Finnish law on the cancelability of the mandate: if the mandate of the representative is, in principle, unilaterally withdrawn by an individual bond holder, it would lead to a result contrary to the principles and objectives of the representation arrangement. The committee also notes that, rather than being mandated, the status of representative may also be based on contractual intermediary status, and this is not, as a general rule, unilaterally cancelled by a single bond holder. The arbitrator shall act in his or her own name but on the joint account of his or her contractual partners. In the case of an intermediary arrangement, since the principal by contract disposes of his formal legal status, there are uncertainties about the bankruptcy situation of the collateral agent: the right to guarantee may also be considered to be part of the insolvency estate. It is significant, however, that the right of guarantee in any case safeguards the claims of bondholders. In the event of bankruptcy, bondholders would be creditors of the collateral agent. Since the improvement of legal certainty and the development of the bond market are aimed at increasing the attractiveness of our domestic bond markets, including in the area of institutional foreign investors and thus the volume of foreign investment and capital in our financial markets, it is important, in the Committee's view, that the legal situation is also clear from an international perspective. According to the committee, uncertainty may arise, for example, as regards the representation of bondholders in Anglo-Saxon legal systems, for example, by using a trust institution which, in some respects, works in different ways from those in use in Finland as described above. The trust installer transfers the property by its expression of will to the name of the trust, which means that the trust becomes the formal legal owner of the property. However, under this arrangement, the beneficiary is the appropriate owner of the assets. The Trust shall be characterised by a specified duration which is not dependent on the stability of the parties to the Arrangement, as is the case with the irrevocable authorisation. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also shares the opinion of the experts it has consulted that the bond market can potentially provide an excellent financing channel alongside the funding provided by banks and that the proposed regulation can contribute to this development. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal with the following comments and mainly technical amendments. The committee also proposes to reject two legislative proposals and to adopt one new legislative proposal. Mr President! The Committee's amendments are aimed at 1 and 3. the draft law and are as follows: The title of Chapter 2 is the appointment and independence of the representative of bondholders, the activities of the representative and the binding nature of the representation agreement. For the sake of clarity of regulation, Article 4 of this Chapter 2 "The appointment and independence of the representative shall be divided into three Article 1 would provide for the possibility of appointing a representative of bondholders. Paragraph 2 would provide that, where such a representative is to be appointed, he should be independent, unless otherwise agreed. The committee proposes that paragraph 3 should read as follows: 'The representative must have arrangements in place to identify and prevent conflicts of interest. Before taking up his or her duties, the delegate shall indicate any circumstances liable to jeopardise his or her independence as representative of the issuer or the issuer or to raise reasonable doubts in this respect. The provisions of this paragraph cannot be agreed otherwise." In other words, with regard to paragraph 3, legislation is what is known as mandatory legislation. Article 8 of the same chapter refers to the obligation of the representative to provide information. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs proposes a new law on book-entry systems and clearing and settlement in the light of the Government's proposal, Section 8 of the draft law. To add a new paragraph 3 which receives the following wording: "The terms of the loan shall specify how they shall be kept available to the public if they are not available from the representative." Chapter 4 of the Act is entitled ‘Guarantees and treatment of assets’. According to Article 12, paragraph 1, second sentence of the bond guarantee law, ‘the activity of a representative and a security agent as collateral holder shall be binding on third parties, provided that the security has been duly established and disclosed in an effective manner in the field of property law’. However, the specificity of the proposed regulation, which is the object of the second sentence of Article 12(1), for example, remains unclear. The Economic Committee considers that the second sentence of Article 12(1) of the draft law should be deleted from the draft law. Similarly, the Economic Committee proposes to amend Article 14(1) of the draft law to read as follows: 'In the case of secured collective financing arrangements, the guarantee agent shall be entitled to exercise, for the common account of creditors, all the rights of the collateral holder, unless otherwise agreed. Similarly, Articles 5 and 6 of this Act shall apply to the binding nature of the collateral collective financing arrangement and the operations of the collateral agent. " Article 15 of Chapter 6, entitled The Right to act as a representative of bond holders, refers to the obligation to register and the registration declaration. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes Rule 15 to add a new paragraph 2 which reads as follows: "The trader may only act as a representative of the loan-based crowdfunding referred to in the Bond Finance Act if it is registered as a representative in the public register of the representatives of bondholders maintained by the Financial Supervisory Authority in accordance with this Chapter." In this case, the paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 15 of the Government proposal are transferred to paragraphs 3 and 4. In Article 16, which refers to exceptions to the obligation to register, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that paragraph 3 be deleted. However, the Committee on Economic Affairs considers it important for the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority that those entities which have been exempted from registration under Article 15 under this Article also inform the Financial Supervisory Authority of their activities as a representative within the meaning of this Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs therefore proposes that a provision be added to section 16 which reads as follows: "A representative referred to in paragraph 1 who is authorised by the Financial Supervisory Authority or registered in a register maintained by the Financial Supervisory Authority shall be notified to the Financial Supervisory Authority when it starts or ceases to act as a representative of bondholders within the meaning of this Act." This provision will become Article 3 paragraph. Chapter 7 is entitled Control and sanctions, and Article 20 is specifically concerned with controls. Similarly, it remains unclear in the presentation which specific issues the Financial Supervisory Authority could issue more specific provisions on. The mandate does not appear to be sufficiently precise in the manner required by the Constitution, which is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes the deletion of paragraph 4. The proposed penalty regulation concerns representation contrary to Article 15 a regulatory registration obligation. For reasons of regulatory consistency, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it necessary to delete the reference to Article 16(1). In addition, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that Parliament rejects the 5th and 7th legislative proposals contained in the government proposal. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is proposing to reject the 5th legislative proposal because the preparation of the national implementation of MiFID II is currently under way, but it is known that the amendments to the legislation will also change the outstanding provisions of the 5th legislative proposal contained in the current government proposal. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that it is more appropriate to deal with these changes as a whole in the context of the discussions on the implementation of the MiFID. Similarly, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the 7th draft of the Board of Directors. The amendments to the draft law concern a law which has been repealed by legislation that entered into force on 21 June 2017. As a result, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes to reject the amendment under the seventh legislative proposal and to implement the substantive amendment of the proposal with a new 10th legislative proposal. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that the law on book-entry and clearing and settlement be amended to include a new paragraph 4 in Section 3 of Chapter 4 as follows: "Thelists to be kept for the issuer’sregistration referred Mr President! The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u3	Mr President! Just as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kaj Turunen, presented this report, a unanimous report is of great value. On this issue of the representative of bondholders, it is good to have clear rules of play and then not only the rules of the game, but also the responsibilities, because there are now a variety of financial instruments in place, different means of obtaining money from the market or investing money in the market. Therefore, once this kind of new system has been created, it should also be created with clear rules and legal responsibilities. Of course, it is a question of legal certainty for this representative of the bondholder, that he has clear rules on what to do, and then, on the other hand, those who have gone into this bond holder's market know what their representative or woman's responsibility is if anyone goes wrong. It is worth remembering, however, when you look at the European money market today, that the major problems today are simply due to the fact that there are financial instruments of all the world that are not under the direct control of anyone today. It's a bit of a jungle. There are some kind of jungle laws: they pretend to be working well and comprehensively and productively and in accordance with all good principles, but, nevertheless, money markets are in as terrible a situation as they can be at the moment. Banks are going down. Last time, two banks went down in Italy. I don't know what's gonna happen after that, whether this is gonna be a domino effect or not. I'm sure no one knows that, not even these financial experts. But it is important to have at least a good level of national legislation, and hope that the European Union too will finally begin to realise that some sort of rational border must be established. I do not think that living in such a wild world is to be welcomed, because it is ultimately the taxpayers who pay for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u4	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the proceedings, the amendment of Article 47 of the Defence Forces Act, which concerns the posts of the Defence Forces, the provisions on their resignation, which are then brought into final form in line with the extension of retirement provided for by the Pensions Act in the public sectors. This is, in fact, something that we discussed in the Chamber a few times earlier. After all, the military pension scheme is laid down in the Pensions Act in the public sector, and this is now part of this package, in which retirement age was increased. In my opinion, however, the fact that such a categorical increase in retirement ages for all sectors is not always a problem is somewhat missing. I remember that firefighters, the police, various very physical and heavy occupations were raised in this Chamber earlier in the debate, perhaps you could also raise the psychologically heavy occupations, but this is not directly the case, but it is precisely the fact that our system is built on the fact that, in the current reports, the strength of the Finnish army has been defined as that 280,000 people, then there will be a need for 11,000 trained professional soldiers, and there will be some 8,000 military tasks in the composition of the Defence Forces peace period. And this is a problem that has been heard and dealt with several times in the Committee on Defence. In the event of a commercial take-up, at least 3000 professional soldiers who have already entered the reserve will then be required to have sufficient physical and psychological capacity to perform these tasks. Every year that the lowest retirement age is raised from the present age will reduce the reserve of professional soldiers by 300 persons a year. According to a report received by the committee, the Defence Forces are seeking to address the shortage of professional soldiers by, among other things, reviewing the investment requirements for the missions of the wartime forces and by placing more reservists in the positions of wartime leaders. The Committee on Defence pointed out, however, that the level of expertise of the reserve is different from that of professional soldiers, and this is precisely the point I wanted to make about this angle of income. In principle, I was not in favour of this type of change, but when it was part of the overall pension reform of the social partners, it is now before Parliament. Even in this case, the Defence Forces are looking for a solution to move forward, but the financial implications of this are also some, and Parliament must also prepare for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u6	Mr President! In this case, it is a long twist that when soldiers in the service of the Finnish army, the Defence Forces, come into retirement age — as we know, a little before it is said, many other people in the profession — and when this current pension system, which is in force, is changed, this government proposal will be of paramount importance for us to have the reserve, as Mr Heinonen mentioned in his own speech, for the operation of this country in retired soldiers. We were just dealing with the defence report, according to which the Finnish reserve, the strength of the military wartime, is being raised by 50,000 soldiers to 280,000 soldiers, which in practice means that the reserve as well as its various leadership tasks, those already retired from the staff, will be involved in managing the situation if the crisis time in Finland ever comes, which of course no one wishes. However, in any case, this bill is the general line that attempts are being made to raise retirement age and thus to influence the fact that pension funds will be sufficient for all in the future. It is important to note, however, that this reserve is very important for the Defence Forces and that retired officers, officers and other officers will then be available to the reserve once they retire. I hope, however, that this bill, which has now taken the form of a report, will now ensure that this reserve is operated and, above all, that Finland's defence is managed at a credible level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u7	Mr President! With this bill, the government proposal, the minimum retirement age of a soldier will be raised from 55 to 57 years. In fact, in this debate, the reason for my speech lies at the end of Mr Hoskonen's speech, namely the capacity of the reserve. The Finnish Defence Forces' defence system is based on an extensive, trained reserve and trainers, which we currently have in the Republic at 11,000. However, this retirement age affects the tasks of the war, insofar as we need around 3,000 trainers in the future in the event of mobilization, and this group has traditionally been obtained from officers and sub-institution officers who have already entered the reserve in the past, who have carried out their duties in the Defence Forces. Now this increase in the retirement age affects the fact that this skilled group is there in the Defence Forces' duties and out of this reserve formation. I would just like to draw attention to the way in which we will continue to ensure that, in similar situations, in mobilization situations — as Mrs Hoskonen referred to there — we would have trainers and skilled officers, under officers, in the tasks of the reserve. It is good to remember that 98% of the wartime composition of the Defence Forces comes from our reserve and only 2% from these 11,000 soldiers in office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u8	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u9	Mr President! This is also one of the proposals before the Committee on Defence, and this is one of those that responds to the rapidly changed security situation and perhaps even to a slightly changed war or to changed crises. In other words, we are blocking the so-called 'green men' gap in our own legislation, and this issue was actually most clearly raised in the case of the takeover of Crimea, where Russian troops came to Crimea and Eastern Ukraine without country names, and that is how this takeover took place. Now, this legislation amends our own Finnish legislation, the Regional Control Act and the Criminal Code so that we have the opportunity to intervene in such situations if, for example, soldiers without symbols start to appear in certain places in Finland. Of course, in this debate, it is perhaps good to keep these critical land holdings on the agenda, which have now been very much seized by the Minister of Defence under Niinistö, namely to ensure that places are not created which could be used, for example, for the organisation of this type of activity or for certain types of colonies, and that is why this law should now be brought into force quickly. Hopefully it will not be necessary, but this will be prepared for this new, modern threat, of which there are already examples from the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u10	Mr President! The procedure is therefore to amend section 7 of the Regional Surveillance Act and Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code. The aim of the proposal is to bring Finland’s legislation on the safeguarding and monitoring of territorial integrity more fully into line with the changed security situation and new types of threats. The authors support the proposed amendment and the wording of the articles has been taken into account in the drafting of the law. The regional supervisory authorities shall be the military, border guard, police and customs authorities and the officials assigned to their regional surveillance. The Finnish Maritime Administration and the Finnish Aviation Authority operate as regional control authorities in their respective fields of activity. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that the proposal is not a question of competence for a new authority. The proposal does not extend the possibility of military use by the Defence Forces and the Border Guard outside the scope of the Regional Surveillance Act, nor does it create new powers independent of the powers already conferred on them by the Regional Surveillance Act. The tasks of the Border Guard include the monitoring and safeguarding of Finland’s territorial integrity at national borders, border crossing points, sea areas, archipelagos and Åland Islands. If necessary, the Border Guard will also use military means to safeguard territorial integrity, as provided for in Article 33 of the Regional Surveillance Act. In the definition of the Regional Supervision Act, a new Article 2(5)(a) is proposed, which includes the definition of a non-military group. A non-identifiable military group shall be defined as a force which is comparable to a military department, acting on behalf of, on behalf of, or with the consent of a foreign State and which is militarily organised, armed or armed and of which the state origin cannot be identified. Article 10 of the Regional Surveillance Act A ban is added that neither a non-identifiable military group nor a member of a military group may enter the territory of Finland or be in the country. Article 25 of the Act in force A non-identifiable military group or its member will also be added, which regional supervisory authority will order the exit from the territory of Finland. Article 34 deals with the fight against hostile behaviour. The scope would also include a military threat which, as I have already mentioned, is not directly identifiable as a state of origin. The fight against hostile activities, as referred to in the Regional Control Act, can also be targeted at a group similar to a non-identifiable military department throughout Finland. Mr President! The provision of the Criminal Code on regional violations is specified in line with the amendment of the Regional Control Act, and this proposal also contributes to the implementation of the Government Programme on Foreign and Security Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u11	Mr President! The world is changing and not in all respects for the better. There have also been changes in the context of foreign and security policy. The so-called hybrid threats bring a new kind of instability and must be kept up to date. It is a question of the functioning of Finnish society, based on mutual trust and spirit. That is why I think it is important that the powers of the authorities are up to date. Effective preparedness and readiness to act in crisis situations is wisdom, although I hope that these crises will not occur. As the committee points out, effective cooperation between the authorities will create the ability to detect and identify threats of varying degrees and diversity and to assess whether the threat falls primarily within the competence of the authorities responsible for internal security or whether it is an infringement of territorial integrity. I think it is valuable that the basis and, in this way, the readiness for cooperation is good. Cooperation between authorities is traditionally well-functioning in Finland, and this should continue to be the case. In order to ensure this smooth cooperation between authorities, it is important that different authorities practice both decision-making and practical cooperation. This will ensure that, in the event of a threat, the responsibilities and responsibilities of all parties are as clear and effective as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u12	Mr President! This government proposal and the report by the Committee on Defence are very good and of high quality. Today’s phenomenon in the world is that such unrecognized soldiers arrive in an area and then big problems begin. There are examples of these, for example in Ukraine. Since, according to the Finnish Constitution, all activities carried out by the authorities must be based on the law and the law must be strictly observed, now this Regional Control Act and its related Chapter 17, Section 7b of the Criminal Code update and therefore the Defence Forces, the Border Guard, the police and Customs will have a legal basis for action if the situation so requires. It is worth remembering, however, when the defence report was discussed, that we are also about to have a reform of the intelligence legislation, which is extremely important, because, especially in the field of intelligence, we must be prepared in advance to get all the information we can about what is threatening Finland. However, Finland is an international player and we cannot remain in a worse position with regard to intelligence legislation than with regard to legislation where the other countries of Western Europe are. Therefore, this reform of the Regional Surveillance Act and its adoption now are very good things, but it also calls for the intelligence legislation currently under discussion and for its updating, because without effective intelligence, it is extremely difficult to prepare for such hybrid threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u13	Mr President! This government bill and the committee report are a necessary package. This cooperation between the authorities at the internal and external security interface must continue to be carried out. Reference has been made here to the situation in Ukraine in late summer 2014. Legislation has been combed to this day to respond in different contexts to such hybrid threats and situations, which may have arisen in the context of this kind of traditional warfare or terrorism or various other crises born from outside, not through symbols, by so-called unrecognized soldiers or operators. This interface has now been combed in the right direction by this legislation. But there's one thing I want to pay attention to. Ukraine 2014, Crimea 2014 June, July and August: to date it is three years ago. This government therefore took its own term of office, two years, and we, together with all three of us, have three years to come up with such a bill that we currently have in Parliament. It cannot be said that these threats have been prepared with some extremely rapid or flexible legislative work or that these situations, which are referred to here in the speeches, have been dealt with quickly in this society. On the contrary, with a rather slow, determined and certainly good way of doing the letter of the law, the law has been prepared, the cooperation of the authorities has been strengthened, and now the law also provides a framework for its action. When reference is made here often to this intelligence law and to the need to speed it up, I would just like to remind you that it took three years to prepare for this type of issue — to see how long it took the intelligence law. I hope, of course, that, as far as the necessary issues are concerned, this intelligence law project will proceed at a moderate and necessary speed, but let us not forget the quality in that regard either. Here, too, it seems that quality has been used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u14	Mr President! Mr Kari raised an important issue here, how much time has been devoted to drafting the law. It is true that this too took a few years, but I personally feel that it is important that this law is carefully prepared. The world around us has indeed changed a great deal over the last few years, and we have to be prepared for this type of threat, and that is why this reform of the Regional Control Act is necessary. The definition of unidentifiable soldiers in this government proposal and in the report of the Committee on Defence has, in my view, been well mentioned. Let us not just talk about uniformed troops anymore, but they are more clearly defined, as is the case. The second point I would also like to draw attention to is cooperation between the various authorities. This proposal does not change the boundaries of the tasks of the authorities, but this cooperation has a traditional, clear division of labour, as has always been the case in the past. It is important to remember that the Border Guard, the Defence Forces, the police, Customs, all operate within their own authority, and this cooperation is important and should be practiced in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u15	Mr President! Nevertheless, the government deserves to be commended for the fact that it has relatively quickly started to promote legislative changes that are important to Finnish security and also these major legal projects to which reference has been made. One of the important legislative changes is being discussed today. In today's world, the security situation in the wider region and also in our neighbourhood has deteriorated, and the threats in today's world have varied, and Finland must also be able to respond to the threat posed by a state actor who necessarily does not comply with the principles of international law. There was also talk of intelligence laws and their urgency. Now that the opposition has called for this promptness — and so it is good — I hope that now, in the case of these extremely important intelligence laws, we will find that readiness for speed in the opposition and that you will be involved in bringing up-to-date intelligence legislation to Finland, so that we are no longer dependent on the goodwill of other countries as far as intelligence is concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u16	Mr President! I do not know whether the government deserves to be commended for its promptness here, but the one who deserves to be thanked is Parliament, because Parliament is aware of the need for different hybrid legislation, security legislation, both in the Administrative Committee and in the Defence Committee that issued this report, for various changes in our security environment, but at the same time Parliament is very well informed of the need for legislation to be built up. Its central objective is to build legislation on a sustainable basis: to use sufficient time to prepare, to seek sufficient expertise behind the preparation, and then, through the report, the draft law will be ready to arrive here in Parliament, and now we are also living. In other words, I would like to thank the whole Parliament — even though I understand the willingness of the representatives of the government parties to thank the government — in this context, especially its Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u17	Mr President! It is precisely this point that Mr Kari mentioned that I would have liked to draw attention to in my own speech, namely that today security is a major challenge, an important challenge, and we must do everything in our power to work together to ensure that we have security at the level that it will need to be in the future. That is why cooperation across government-opposition boundaries is extremely important and I would not emphasise this line of division in this context at all. It is very important that, for example, this intelligence law is now being carefully and explicitly prepared in parliamentary terms, and that it responds to these challenges, how we can today make this regulation in such a way that security threats can be tackled in the best possible way, but also in a wise way that we will build future legislation in such a way that the privacy of our citizens, the old principle of correspondence and so on, can be respected in the future. These objectives can be reconciled, but they require good parliamentary cooperation and careful, thorough preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u18	Mr President! In this respect, I am sure everyone who has taken action and started to do this work deserves praise, but actually I left it to myself to ask myself that, unfortunately, we in Finland often do not take action until something has happened or happened. We had examples, such as school shootings, when legislation was passed at a high speed after an unfortunate event, some of which was discovered that it may have gone a little overboard and did not necessarily achieve what was actually being pursued. When reference has been made to previous governments and to this government, it could also be referred to the previous government when the Treaty of Lisbon has been discussed. The Treaty of Lisbon entered into force in 2009 and made a promise that we will take our share of the request for assistance from another EU country, if any, and on the other hand we will be ready to receive it. It was only during this government, when concrete situations came to light, that the events in Paris, on the one hand, the Swedish submarine hunt, raised the question that our legislation is not at the level it should be. That is why, for example, I myself have been quite strong on the subject of terrorism and I personally hope that, in a similar way, one of the modern threats we are talking about here is, for example, international terrorism. We should be better prepared not to allow such so-called target persons or those who return from terrorist organisations to move freely, and that is why I hope that we will have legislation sooner than when something happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u19	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u20	Mr President! Just as the committee rightly states, it is important that adequate guidance for students be provided at both secondary and higher education levels. The services must be developed on a student-oriented basis and listening to the customer. There must be a readiness to respond to feedback and, if necessary, to make rapid changes, for example, to change the priorities of advice and to secure resources, especially when the application period for aid is at its peak. All new channels through which students search for information must be introduced. When it comes to finding the right channels, I urge you to listen to young people who are the best experts in what is the best way to find information. Just as the committee says, the advice must be given in terms of content, easy and timely access to the students. The decision must come and the money must be paid so that the studies can go well for the economy. For this reason, the Social Insurance Institution should be particularly careful to ensure that applications can be processed without delay and without error. I welcome the committee's proposal for a statement. Here, too, there is a great deal to be said for the attitude, and I also welcome the fact that the attitude of the state is gradually spreading across the board, that there is less stalking, more training and confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u21	Mr President! Of course, it is very important for students to receive quality, appropriate, timely and expert advice. In that sense, we are talking about a very important issue overall. This speech said that this up-to-date advice will then make it possible for students to maintain their livelihoods. In this context, I would like to stress that it is, of course, a good thing to pay attention to advice, but just as essential, Mr President, is also what kind of student support system we have as a whole and how it offers students the opportunity to live decently. It is, of course, unfortunate to note in this context that the government has cut a very large proportion of the student's income in a significant way through these cuts. It is by no means a pleasant thing, as is also the case, that contrary to the promises of the training cuts were large and that then of course this student-related surgery came. These are the values that we have often discussed in this Chamber. For example, I myself have said that it is a pity that the government may have found money for tax relief for the well-off, but then rather small-time people, those suffering from income difficulties, are cut with a rather harsh hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u22	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u23	Mr President! In previous readings, I drew attention to this interesting proposal, which therefore proposes to transfer compensation for damage caused by state missions from a private company to a state’s own activities, which would result in savings of up to half a million euros a year. Why is this interesting? I think it is because, even on such a small matter, such savings could be achieved by actually cancelling privatisation rather than taking privatisation forward. Is this not interesting how much savings potential could be available in other administrative sectors if similar measures were taken there too? In other words, ideological privatisation would go back to its own activities. In society as a whole, and especially in the big money debate, I would like to remind you that the market economy is a good man but a bad host. It is worth the idea and honestly wondering whether it is really more profitable to produce activities in private or by society, whether freedom of choice will save money or, in fact, cost more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u24	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u25	Mr President! This government proposal is very welcome, and in the Committee on Administration we made a few clarifications in relation to these procurement and possession procedures. But what has become a lot of feedback from people — much earlier than this government proposal was inside — is the possibility of applying for an arms license electronically. This is indeed now an opportunity to apply for a licence electronically, and it is also made more flexible in the sense that, of course, it will remain possible to apply for it from the police department, but the application for a licence is no longer tied to the applicant's place of residence or municipality of residence, but can be submitted to the police department of its choice, and therefore the amendment will make it more flexible in the authorisation procedure. An application for a permit can therefore be submitted to any police department, but the applicant cannot choose which police department will deal with this application, and this will also enable those applications to be centralised, and it will make the service more flexible in the sense that it prevents congestion which has sometimes arisen at regional level during certain seasons. The government's proposal is therefore very welcome, and in the Committee on Administrative Affairs we made a few clarifications, which were unanimously adopted, and in that sense it is good that progress is being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u26	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to reform the arms licensing procedure without endangering the safety of arms. I would like to raise two points. First of all, the aptitude tests that are now being dropped: I consider it sensible to abandon aptitude tests because, according to the information presented, the tests have in practice been of little use to the licensing process and have not added value to the safety of weapons. A much more effective and better way of assessing the suitability of an applicant for an arms license for the acquisition of a weapon is through individual interviews and the use of existing information. This will be successful if the exchange of information is smooth and the information systems discuss with each other. It is good to draw attention to the fact that their content is similar across the country. This is also important for the legal security and equality of the applicant. The training of staff is also a key role in this area and is very important. Secondly, I would like to point out that it is now possible to apply for an arms permit electronically. This is an excellent thing and today. This will certainly make the authorisation procedure more flexible and faster. There will also be relief for those who feel the need to do business in person at the police station. The application will no longer be tied to the municipality of residence, so you can submit the application to the police department of your choice. If necessary, the police services will then transfer applications for permits according to the work situation. I consider this to be a good and customer-oriented practice, which contributes to the dismantling of red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u27	Mr President! The Arms Act needs to be reformed, and it has been here in Parliament for ten years at different stages of the proceedings. A few years ago, there were points that have now been clearly improved in this government proposal. Attention has been paid here to this electronic application. That is, of course, today and a good reform. Over the years, the need for suitability tests has been called into question, and I myself consider it a much more important personal interview, which is the one that is better able to ensure this. I would also like to draw attention to the situation of the arms dealer. For their part, this reporting obligation has been specified and it also allows for a safe business for the trader, which is well taken into account here. This too has given particular attention to safety, and I therefore also welcome this new proposal from the point of view of the trader.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u28	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u29	Mr President! Last week, at the first reading of this issue, we had a wide-ranging debate on work, the importance of work for people, social security, basic income and many other issues that were very loosely linked to this bill. Since I was unable to attend the whole debate at the time, but I did read all the speeches that have been made, I wanted to speak again at this second reading. The purpose of this bill is therefore to propose a municipal experiment to experiment with employment and business services on a regional basis and to determine whether employment services are located in regions or municipalities. There is nothing wrong with the experiment itself, but in such a short period of time this experiment will hardly give much new perspective on the matter. The whole Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the experts we heard were in complete agreement on this point. During the last government term, long-term, well-made municipal trials were conducted in different parts of Finland. These trials had a sufficiently large target group, a sufficiently long trial period, and an excellent summary report was made. On the basis of the municipal trials carried out last season, it can be clearly stated that municipalities in the municipal experiment were able to reduce long-term unemployment. Unfortunately, these results have not been used now, and this kind of virtual experiment is being carried out which is unable to produce universal information. This experiment has one new perspective compared to previous municipal trials. The point of view is precisely what we Social Democrats have not been able to accept, and it is the extension of rehabilitative work activities to companies at the risk of being hard hit. Last week's debate in this Chamber told me that it must be difficult for many people to understand the situation in the lives of clients in rehabilitating work. Rehabilitative work activities are intended for people who are not able to work, i.e. persons who are not capable of normal labour market policies, such as subsidised work, work trials or training. Since the customers of rehabilitative work are not capable of working, the employers' representatives consulted in committee also stated that companies are unlikely to be able to take these people to work so to speak. The problem with understanding this is, in part, that we have another work experiment in the legislation. The actual work experiment is intended for people who are able to work, for example, to test whether they are interested in a particular sector or profession, or to find out whether they are up-to-date and what type of additional training may be necessary. This experiment has even helped some people to get permanent work after the experiment or at least to clarify their career plans. However, this bill is not about this work experiment, it is about people who are unable to work and who need a variety of rehabilitation measures. Another problem with this is that rehabilitation work is currently also being used illegally. Since the government has reduced the subsidised work in organizations and has set an annual quota of 3,000 people, more and more people who are able to work are directed to rehabilitative work activities, even though they do not need rehabilitation but lack work. The risk is that if the unlawful use of this rehabilitative work activity continues and is ignored, the trial of working life referred to in this bill will lead to the directing of unemployed people who are capable of working to work in companies with mere labour market support and a daily allowance of EUR 9. It is important to note that the law on rehabilitative work activities is violated, as rehabilitative work activities are not intended for people who are capable of working. Mr President! We need rehabilitation work, but people who do not belong there who do not need rehabilitation must not be directed there. We also need the intermediate labour market, which is a good way for some to access the open labour market. On the other hand, we must accept the fact that, even if we have full employment, not all of us can cope with current labour productivity expectations in an open labour market. That is why I hope that the value of the work done in the organisations, which is of social importance, will be so appreciated that the value of the organisations will also be seen as employment. There is a lot of unworked work in organisations such as children, young people and the elderly, which could also be done by those who are unable to cope with the open labour market. At the same time, they could also feel that they are a significant part of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u30	Mr President! The objective of this proposed law is to facilitate the transition to the regional model by supporting the transition to the regional model by paving the way for the transfer of responsibility for the organisation of labour and business services to the regions and by enabling the development of employment services. Now we have to ask the government: Is this legislation, too, which should be put on ice until the coalition gets a grip on the reform of freedom of choice and the cream peeling of private health firms? After all, Minister Risikko came out today by saying that the laws relating to the provincial model must be put on ice until the convention gets what it wants if the Constitutional Committee decides to complicate the drafts of the convention. So what is to be done with the numerous and at least partially positive projects relating to this regional reform, if the whole major reform is to be brought down because of politicisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u31	Mr President! After all, the draft law is basically made up of two elements: First of all, there is a more general trial of municipalities, which aims to bring together the TE services of the unemployed better in one hand and to monitor the impact of this. This kind of municipal experiment is in itself a good thing, it is needed and, given the current situation of the unemployed, it is absolutely essential. However, the problem with the municipal trial of this bill is that from an experimental point of view it is methodologically poorly implemented. First of all, it is linked to the regional model, but the timing has been done in such a way that, in practice, if the regional model is implemented, the municipalities would have little role in organising TE services or, if they were to play a role, it would have to be decided before the experiment was completed. Secondly, there are some methodological problems with the experiment itself: the experiment has been started without adequate scientific consultation and, at the moment, even scaffolding is not yet up. So the municipal experiment itself is a positive thing, but if implemented as it is, it is not expected to be very helpful in organising our TE services. The second element here is the experience of working life, which is problematic in many ways. The problem for the left is, of course, that people are forced to work without pay and that, as the previous speaker said here, the groups of people who are thus targeted are mainly people who are unable to work, mainly people who are, by law, unable to work. It is also problematic that these pilot municipalities no longer have access to rehabilitative work, which, despite all the problems and abuses, has been a life-saving ring for some people and is the best option for all. The third problem, which relates to this, is that all the experts who have heard are very sceptical about the fact that the genuine working environments in which the experiment should then be carried out would not be found, at least from the company that has been particularly stressed here. In other words, there are a lot of problems in principle, a lot to lose and hardly anything to win. That is why, at first reading, we supported a solution in which the municipal experiment would have been carried out without this part of the working life experiment. This would have enabled us to achieve the good that is available from this draft law at all, without the problems that are connected with it. We lost the vote, and we have a legislative proposal that the government originally intended, and now at second reading it is a question of whether the trial of local authorities with the experience of working life is a better option than no experiment at all. As we estimate that the benefits of the municipal experiment are weak and will be delayed if they occur at all, and the problems associated with the work experience are obvious, strong and principled, we have come to the conclusion that experimenting with a municipal experiment with work life is a worse option than no experiment at all. That is why I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u32	Mr President! As Mr Kontula and, among other things, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen well argued, this involves quite a lot of such fundamental problems. Each one of us understands that when it comes to the incapacitated person, there are many reasons why he needs rehabilitative work activities: life management, reinstatement, reintegration into the labour market and so on. We on the left have long been concerned that these include considerable potential for abuse and exploitation. And now that there is a risk that, in practice, people who are unable to work will be forced into an experiment that does not affect them and vice versa, it is very questionable. Without commenting now on Mr Mäkelä's position that this too is broadly related to regional reform, which is broadly related to the social reform and to this political trade which took place 18 months ago, it is another dimension and makes the adoption of this legislation a little questionable in this context too, when all this political trade as a whole seems to be in a short period of time. But on these grounds, Mr President, I support Mr Kontula's rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u33	Mr President! However, it should be borne in mind that municipalities today have a legal obligation to pay for the municipal part of labour market support, 50 % after 300 days of unemployment, and then, after 1000 days, it goes to 70 %. This obligation for municipalities already exists. In my opinion, when a municipality is responsible for the time of a person's life on a number of big issues and the unemployed live in a municipality of origin, however, it is only natural that the municipality should then be given the opportunity through different legislation, even if it is an experiment to test whether there is a way to guide these people on the road to a certain degree of employment at one end and to get on their own. That is a very good thing for that person. I find it difficult to understand the criticism that the opposition is making in this regard. This experiment will only last until the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u36	Mr President! In fact, Mr Hoskonen's speech came up with all the arguments which have led us to oppose this experiment in working life, but only on the contrary. We all agree that it is good to encourage the unemployed to work, but in this experiment in working life, which will replace rehabilitative work, it is precisely people who are unable to work, not necessarily people with poor education. There may be very highly educated people there, but there are people there who may have severe drug abuse experiences, very deep depression, other factors that make these people unable to work. That is precisely why they have been offered rehabilitation, education, health and social services, and so on. Now, with this work experience and support, all these rehabilitation opportunities will be taken away from them and the only chance will be that they will be employed by a private company. That is the problem, because at least according to Finnish Entrepreneurs, there are few entrepreneurs who take responsibility for people who are unable to work on their own shoulders. This is also missing from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which says that much more appropriate than this experiment would be to divide matters into two different types of services: traditional rehabilitative work activities and a parallel work life experiment, which would enable them to strengthen and support each other, so that in these experimental areas, Lapland, Pirkanmaa, Northern Savo, Varsinais-Suomi and Satakunta, people who are unable to work are only entitled to work life trials, not to rehabilitate activities anymore. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u37	Mr President! This municipal trial law is indeed now at second reading, and we have to ask ourselves, when there is one bad thing here, whether it is worth burying the whole experiment. In fact, I think that now that this whole regional reform is, as it were, a questionable timetable and may become a delay in this regard, this experiment should be carried out, because then we will have time to see which is the better model: that we are moving to the regional employment services system or that we are moving to the municipal employment services system. When a municipal experiment was carried out last season, it has already been possible to assess its results. It has been a very long idea to integrate our social and health services and our employment services in the case of those who are hard to work more closely together, and then the municipality that is closer to people has provided those services, business contacts and so on, so that people can find employment. And when you look at the results of municipalities that have been involved in the municipal experiment in employment management, and when you look at the results of municipalities that have not been, and you look at the employment rate in the country on average, the unemployment rate in municipalities that have been involved in the municipal experiment rose significantly less than in the country on average. I believe that this can tell us that there has been better success in these service processes, where the hard-to-work people have been successfully brought into the labour market or at least along further paths to education and active measures. In that sense, I personally welcome this trial of municipalities from this point of view, but I hope that the government will genuinely look at the results of experiments at provincial level and then at those that have taken place in individual municipalities. And as far as this municipal experiment is concerned... [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen :Yes, you can move to the speaking room. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u40	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, I am surprised at the complaint that everyone is going to be shot down from here while we are at the moment at the tenth point of the day at the epistle and so far all has been flogged through unanimously. They don't shoot everything down, but they're even trying to shut down those worst shows. The shortness of the experiment: I do not believe that anyone who has actually dealt with the rehabilitative work activity, its right target group, believes that these people will be able to get into such a condition during this experiment that they will find employment in the open labour market. This is just not realism in this world. And if someone is in such a condition, then he is in the wrong place: then he should not be in the target group at all. It has so many taps between rehabilitating work and open labour markets that people don't just run that way during such a short experiment. I am thinking in exactly the opposite of what Mr Filatov has just said. I think that the experience of working life in itself is such a big problem of principle — it is a small part of this experiment, and it is a small part of the country, but it is a terrible thing from the point of view of the rights, life management and opportunities of the individual unemployed — that, in my opinion, this put more emphasis on the potential benefits of the experiment than on the potential benefits of the experiment, which, indeed, due to poor planning, are likely to be limited, at least on the basis of expert consultations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u41	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Hoskonen that this experiment has hardly been carried out in Ilomants, since until now the law has defined that no rehabilitative work has been allowed to be carried out in companies. Up to now, rehabilitative work activities have been carried out in municipalities and associations, and the person has always had support, rehabilitation and guidance in this rehabilitation work, and now that this is partly transferred to companies, it means that these disabled people are just thrown into businesses and they get to hang out there in their own way. This is the reason why the employers in the hearings in the committee also said that they do not have the opportunity to take these disabled people there to hang out and be, and they do not have the opportunity to provide the support, guidance and rehabilitation that these people would need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u42	Mr President! In no way did I mean that anyone would be forced to hang at a workplace, of course, but there must be a will of their own. [Interjection] The experiment is such a short one, and Mrs Filatov quite rightly said that the committee has had a long debate on whether the experiment could be longer. I am in favour of it being longer. But what is important is that the big picture is that we get real jobs for people in this country, that we remove as much bureaucracy as possible, that we get new jobs, and then the less skilled jobs will be there, as it were. For example, a very successful company may want to hire a person to clean up the yard, because many companies also have an important image issue that everything looks good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u43	Mr President! The most important thing is to understand that this is an experiment, and, as Mrs Filatov has said expertly, there is already something to be learned from the experience of the municipalities in this matter, but the important situation and the new situation here is also that this new experiment is also an opportunity for businesses, and not, as has been suggested here, that all these things are now being taken over by companies. Clearly, the municipalities are still taking on a great deal of responsibility here, and therefore I do not quite understand that, for ideological reasons, this experiment is now being opposed. Let us allow for these tasks and, of course, we must put people in employment to whom it may be appropriate, so that there are many aspects of consideration here. And then I think that the entrepreneurs, too, think they have the resources and the time to carry out that responsible task. There's no one there to hang out with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u44	Mr President! I do not think I know everything at all, but I have been able to train the unemployed in this life, that I know that there is no necessity but good. Mr Hoskonen, there is one big problem that the long-term unemployed person who is unable to work is forced to leave at the risk of hardness. For example, STK says that the experiment could be quite worthwhile if the unemployed had the right to refuse a job trial without consequences, but when this is not the case, I hope that you will make this amendment. As far as companies are concerned, I am glad that it came up because I do not have any ideological weight, and in fact I wonder whether there has really been a consultation of entrepreneurs and how many entrepreneurs seem to be reasonably confused with different possibilities now – we have training contractrs, we have recruiters in the experiment, now we still have people in the work life experiment. And when the company’s main task is often, and usually is, to make a profit and not to take care of the education, employment and rehabilitation of the people who are still unable to work, the company is facing quite major challenges, and I would hope that entrepreneurs will also be listened to more strongly on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u45	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, you do not think that anyone should be forced into this, but that is precisely what this is all about. The only new thing about this work experiment is that people can now also be forced into these services. Article 17 of the Social Welfare Act has, up to now, allowed rehabilitation in genuine working environments, that is not the problem, but now people can be forced to go there at the risk of the loss of minimum income support, which is the same as forcefully. Let's talk about man's last income. Mr. Pakkanen, you believe that they are the only ones placed in these genuine working environments that fit in there, and no one to hang out with. The basic problem is where to put those who do not fit when rehabilitative work in these municipalities is stopped. What's gonna happen to them? Where are they going? What are they offered? Or nothing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u47	Mr President! I believe that this question raised by the representative at the end of the Convention is the very essence of the matter. From the point of view of the municipalities, this is a somewhat difficult situation: many municipalities and businesses, in our committee hearings, said that it is likely to be very difficult to find companies that would take people who meet the criteria for rehabilitating work. Instead, there might be a desire to take those who do not meet those criteria and then again a situation in which this experiment in working life would be abused. In that case, rather than using subsidised work, which unfortunately has suffered little inflation recently, because there has been too little resources for paid work or pay subsidies, and especially for organisations which, in most cases, employ the very unemployed who are still a little further away from the open labour market and the most competitive labour market. In fact, the same objective could be better approached by increasing the wage subsidies for organisations. When a person is closer to the labour market but still has the obstacles to not being able to compete hard on the market as it were, pay support has been an excellent way of helping a person to move forward. But now we have little money from the organisations and even a ceiling has been set for the actual 100% support from the organisations, and we are in a situation where many municipalities have not at all used these opportunities to employ them because the money has already been tied up for the past year. But as far as the possibility of rehabilitating work in companies is concerned, the municipalities themselves applied for it. I hope that they have actually thought about how to build this path, because when there is no such traditional rehabilitative work activity in use, there may be a situation where no services can be found for this target group, and I think that would be the saddest outcome. But that risk here really exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u48	Mr President! The first question is where to find the company if the rehabilitative work activities are actually being carried out in companies. It is a very beautiful idea, but also a very utopian idea that entrepreneurs take employees from their goodness there. Certainly someone may, but not on a large scale, because companies have to do the basic work of the company and there are not enough directors. This is the big problem with that. This is such a thing that there is a great risk that these people who need rehabilitation work will find that they are no longer fit for anything. They're worth nothing. No one takes them, no one wants them. What does it do to man himself? Now we must remember what the entrepreneurs said here whether it was now three or four weeks ago, that we do not need free workers in the workplace, we need skilled workers. And now that there are learners from the educational sector and then there are workers in rehabilitating work, tell me what are the companies that companies like them can cope with. Have you asked the companies? Has it said how many jobs or rehabilitative jobs can be found in this way? Pay support is what we need in this country. It's good for both of us. It generally benefits the organization in which the subsidised work is carried out and benefits the person who does the subsidised work. It gives both of us something, but now it seems to me that we have closed our eyes and say that we are now getting free labour for companies through this, that we are getting Finland on the rise. But the free labour force is not the same as a skilled labour force who is able to do and cope with the work that must be done in it. These things should be considered a little further. Once again, this is something that looks good on paper, but in practice it certainly falls.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u49	Mr President! Have they been consulted — at least in this report the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities has heard Finnish Entrepreneurs and their opinions have been taken into account. It is clear that this rehabilitative work is a challenging situation for companies, but I myself know that in the services sector, at least, in the commerce sector, entrepreneurs take some of it. Of course, this does not remove the problem of unemployment, but I think it is important that this experiment be given to companies, and they also use it to some extent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u50	And Mr. Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u51	Mr President! Personally, I sincerely hope that this experiment will help to find the pearls, to find the kind of successes where some people who are long-term unemployed, who are somewhat lost in life management, find a new career for their lives and a skilled workforce for the company. But it is a pity that even if these pearls are found, they are now found in the backskin of other residents, that is to say, those in need of rehabilitative work even more badly, who do not get into the work life experiment, but who are still being deprived of the various rehabilitation and health and social services for the rest of the rehabilitation work in these pilot municipalities, and I would like to see a change to that. In parallel, these could still work well. As far as this experiment is concerned, the experiments are certainly good, but as many experts and the committee have said, after consulting all the experts, this experiment should be longer. As such, it will only last until the end of next year, i.e. until the end of 2018, when many have suggested that it could be extended at least until the end of 2020. That is also what the Committee on Labour is hoping for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u52	Mr President! Now that I am listening to this, I think that the rehabilitation of work and paid work somehow now mix together in this debate. However, people in paid employment are able to work in such a way that some of them even move to an open labour market after having been in this pay-supported job for some time or continue to do important social tasks in the association with the elderly, young people or children. But now that we're talking about the customer of rehabilitating work, the customer of rehabilitating work is really something else. So he is an incapacitated person with very small resources. It may be that he has to learn a life of intoxication or how to have two or three hours in a community, and that too can take all the strength away from this person. I think that we are not talking about the same group of people when this debate is taking place here, who can move on to trying to do rehabilitative work. I believe that this should now be clarified before this debate continues. We are talking about two completely different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u53	Mr President! Representative Pakkanen, Finnish Entrepreneurs were indeed consulted in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and Finnish Entrepreneurs stated that they are very skeptical about finding companies in which these people could be placed, especially in this situation, when there are many other types of work and practice available for the common good. Perhaps I too would like to go back to a world where working life was the same as life and everyone participated in it according to their abilities, where it was very unusual for someone to be excluded from working life. But some time ago, modern capitalism and exchange work came, and since then, for the last centuries, we have lived in such a labour market and such a world where there is no room for anyone but 100 percent, perhaps even 100 percent of the people who work. The situation is not ideal, we must get out of it, but the solution can be found elsewhere than in pressure on people who are unable to work, at the risk of losing minimum income security, to genuine jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u54	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u55	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has produced a unanimous report on the gas market law and related laws, which is a very fine thing. However, it has to be acknowledged that, at this stage of consultation with experts, some contradictory information came from what timetable it would be worth opening up our natural gas markets. Of course, it is linked to the Baltic situation, to the situation of the Lithuanian-Poland pipeline. It is quite clear that, according to the logic of the market economy, there will certainly be benefits and benefits from the fact that there is now a change of law and the opening up of the natural gas market, but it is perhaps to be assumed that it will not, until the whole chain to Central Europe can work, affect us here as well. After all, the Commission's support for Balticconnector is quite high, at 75%, at 190 million. That is a very important point. Another good thing about that bill is that it is easier to access the biogas network. This legislative package is also accompanied by changes in the electricity transmission laws, from which a year ago there was quite a stir when Caruna made quite unreasonable, cheekless increases, and now there are roofs, how much you can raise. Well, I hope they don't turn out to be the least real raise. This too will be reviewed. Especially for sparsely populated areas in northern and eastern Finland, quite large network areas, where distances are long but the population is low, there were now extensions in the timetables where these investments, which were directed by the previous government, would need to be made. The committee also took account of the fact that technology will move forward, and these regional differences will also have to be taken into account and will certainly continue to be considered if these changes to the electricity market law are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u56	Mr President! It is good to continue with this speech by Mr Kulmun, and also to start with the fact that, following a wide consultation, the committee has also reached a unanimous proposal on the need to develop legislation on the natural gas market, and it is of value in itself. After all, natural gas is not a very large part of our energy supply, it is probably some 6%, but it is growing, and that is why this is so important. The natural gas market will actually be opened up by 2020 at the latest, and this Balticconnector pipeline linking Finland and Estonia is, of course, one of the manifestations of this project, which is currently under construction. As has been shown here, the EU Commission supports its construction phase with 187.5 million, which represents 75% of the cost of construction. Indeed, it was not easy to draw up this report because there were very different estimates — and it is good to point out here — of the opening up of these markets, not only in terms of timetable, effectiveness but also in terms of costs. This confused the work of our committee. It was also noted that the construction of a natural gas pipeline between Finland and Estonia alone does not yet open up the European natural gas market in a competitive manner, and in this respect, of course, the creation of this interconnector between Poland and Lithuania is particularly important. Hopefully, these solutions will come about within that time frame, which of course we cannot simply influence here in Finland. There were also a few different ideas about what the price impact of natural gas will be on the market, but after that, we came to a joint assessment. What is happening structurally here is that when we have two natural gas companies, Gasum and Baltic Connector, it is clear that when we separate from Gasum a network company, it does not have to and does not make sense to be two network companies, but it makes sense to combine the two state-owned companies. Finally, I would just like to return to this idea or to the suggestion that the ceiling on the increase in transmission fees should come now. It is important in the light of these experiences which have taken place in the past years. The public's feedback has been rather harsh in this regard, and there have been such misunderstandings that 15% increases will be made here. That is not the intention; in that respect, a longer period is considered. However, there was no roof in the past, and this is an improvement in this respect, and that, in sparsely populated areas, this cable, which is quite expensive to do, was made more flexible and these companies that operate there could also make these investments. So the committee made a unanimous proposal in this respect and I attach great importance to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u57	Mr President! In addition to the transfer of natural gas, this proposal also concerns the transmission of electricity. Electricity is a necessary commodity for all of us. In spite of its necessity, however, it is a monopoly. It is therefore clear that electricity and its transmission charges must be reasonable. This requirement of reasonableness has been challenged by very large increases in electricity transmission prices. The worst part of the increase is that even by saving energy consumers have not been able to protect themselves against high-speed electricity bills, because electricity transmission companies have focused on high price increases specifically on monthly electricity charges. According to the reports of the Energy Agency, a total surplus of EUR 175 million was already incurred by electricity distributors during the period 2012-2015. The return on investment of the companies has been as close as 10 per cent. Many electricity transmission companies have therefore increased prices considerably more than would be necessary to ensure security of electricity supply. That is why I consider this proposal to be good or, at the very least, heading in the right direction. The proposal includes proposals for provisions to be added to the Electricity and Natural Gas Market Act which limit the increase in the transmission and distribution charges of electricity and natural gas over a period of 12 months to a maximum of 15 % of the total taxable price of the transmission or distribution. Mr President! These changes will not overturn the big mistake of the previous government to allow Fortum to sell its electricity transmission network to Caruna, but, as has been said, these changes will at least be able to curb the operation of this interest rate machine created during the previous parliamentary term and to moderate the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u58	Mr President! I must immediately acknowledge that I am not familiar with this issue as I have dealt with it in committee, and I would like to put a question to the representatives in the Chamber when it comes to opening up gas market prices in general. I come from the region of Kymenlaakso, where natural gas has been used as an energy source for industry since the 1960s to the 1970s and has also been used by the companies of the city in the district heating company. There the price of natural gas has always been very close to the price of oil. What, then, is the future market situation to which natural gas is compared? Is it electricity or what, is it someone in this world, a global price, or is it really a system at market prices?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u59	The 12th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 6/2017 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the Partnership Agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u60	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 7/2017 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-26-ps-76.u61	The 15th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 28 June 2017. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole reading of the draft amending budget: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. The amendments must be submitted to the central office by 11 a.m. on Tuesday 27 June 2017 at the latest. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments have been proposed to the proposal for an add-on budget, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
