ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u2	Congressman Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u3	Mr President! Yesterday we received a very confusing report that the President of the United States is preparing to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. But we can't paralyze. Europe must take the lead in global climate policy. This requires a stronger commitment from European governments to joint efforts to bring about a transformation in energy so that fossil energy sources are left in history as soon as possible. It is unclear whether and how the US exit from the Paris climate agreement is progressing and, if so, what is the timetable. If the US withdraws from the agreement, its impact on CO2 emissions will be high, at 0.3 degrees, with the goal that the global warming will not exceed 1.5 degrees. Prime Minister, what would the withdrawal of the United States from the agreement mean for multilateral cooperation? And how does the government think the EU should react to the US exit from the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u4	Mr President! As we discussed yesterday in this Chamber, it would be extremely unfortunate and regrettable if the USA today made such a decision. Yesterday evening I had a discussion with my Nordic colleagues about this possibility, and of course we Nordic countries will find each other right away on this issue and we talked about this in Bergen at the beginning of the week. This unfortunate withdrawal from the agreement: If that is the case, then the European Union must take the lead, the Nordic countries will play their part in it. We have to get a guy from China to fill that hole. However, it would be rather unusual for this to happen, because then the USA, Nicaragua and Syria would be the only UN countries to be excluded from the climate agreement. In this case, the U.S. would set up in a rather unusual series.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u6	Mr President! Indeed, this is not the case, it is not the case that we should be paralysed, but that we need more effective measures to stop climate change. The Social Democrats want to be involved in strengthening climate policy as an active member of the European Union so that the damage caused by the possible disengagement of the United States is minimised. Indeed, we need a united and strong EU to pilot emissions reductions to the port under the Paris Agreement, but, just as the Prime Minister said, we also need strong global partners, and China is a good opportunity here. Prime Minister, do you see that the EU, together with China and possibly with other countries, should find measures to prevent the United States from seeking a competitive advantage by jeopardising the future of the planet, and what could such action possibly be? I mean, it was.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u7	Mr President! The effects of climate change are already visible around us. At that Bergen meeting, the Prime Minister of Iceland expressed his concern that one cubic kilometre of Arctic ice melts every single day. The effects of climate change are reflected in each of our everyday lives, and we must not be discouraged even if the USA withdraws from the agreement. After all, the break-up of the USA from the agreement does not bring down the agreement, but it means that we who remain active there must then do more together and prevent situations of this kind, which the representative has also referred to. I believe we will find a partner in China in this matter. I discussed these issues with the Chinese President during their visit to Finland. Climate issues and clean energy, cleantech, have risen to China's own priorities now quite different
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u8	Mr President! Climate change is indeed the most important common challenge facing humanity, and it is therefore very startling that the USA is possibly going to break away from this agreement. The President of the United States of America has, of course, already made climate-responsible decisions in the past. Such a decision was, among other things, the abolition of financial support from organisations that promoted sexual health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u9	Mr President! Firstly, in the negotiations on the agreement itself, Finland and our Environment Ministers played a central and active role in the negotiations on climate change in Paris, and of course we will continue along these lines. It is true that the U.S. administration has also made significant cuts in funds from the UN, and that also means that the European Union must take on greater responsibility, greater responsibility for the issues that the U.S. government has cut off from UN activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u10	Mr President! Climate change is the most serious threat to humanity. It's got to be solved. There's no choice. But perhaps the good news is that the Paris climate agreement has already entered into force and the news of possible US exclusion has only led other countries to firmly defend climate protection. Perhaps it is good to remind you, however, that just yesterday we voted in this Chamber on the Greens' counter-opposition to the Government's climate policy. Finland’s own emission reduction targets are not in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Due to massive forest fellings and reductions in carbon sinks, Finland will not reduce its own net emissions before the 2030s. But the proposal to tighten up climate policy was brought down, and now it was a pleasure to hear the Prime Minister's comment that we now need to do more. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether, in a changed situation, the Government intends to update Finland's climate policy to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement and whether Finland intends to pursue stricter emission targets for the EU as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u11	Mr President! Firstly, this sustainable forest management. We are all of the opinion that Swedish forestry is sustainable, and Sweden has been beaten for about 75-80% of its annual growth for 20 years. What we are planning now is about 75% of annual growth. But what we are doing about climate change: we have tough targets in Finland, we also have tough targets in the Nordic countries, and at the Bergen Prime Minister's meeting we actually discussed these issues almost throughout the meeting, what we can do together for biofuels, for bioenergy, for renewable energy and for Agenda 2030. We also discussed and challenged ourselves to consider whether we could even tighten up the objectives that we have already set.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u12	Mr President! Not only must the rest of the world stand up for climate protection and the future of our children in the event of a possible US withdrawal, but it must also be borne in mind that the world economy is already moving towards clean solutions and that the biggest loser, along with the climate, in this possible US withdrawal, is the United States itself. In other words, we must also remember that the investments made in clean solutions are driving our economy forward and bringing work and investment to Finland — that our own advantage is also in favour of raising the role now. In this context, Prime Minister, I would be a little debatable when you said that if the United States withdraws from financing equality and sustainable development through the UN, then we EU countries should play a bigger role. But you've just cut this money. Finland has cut funding for UNEP, the UN Environment Programme, which is working on the fight against climate change, for example. In other words, Prime Minister, are you prepared to change direction and increase funding for environmental protection, and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u13	Mr President! This question contained many questions and arguments. I will start at the beginning, or with the employment effect of these clean solutions. This is precisely the angle that I believe we should also convince the USA that the possible solution now being taken is the wrong one. At that meeting in Bergen, a Prime Minister had just discussed this angle with President Trump, and President Trump had replied that this was the best justification for the fight against climate change, which he has heard so far, when that Prime Minister had justified the employment impact of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u14	Mr President! Finland has been doing forest works for a long time and actions to use renewable materials instead of fossils. We have made the forests grow with billions of investments so that we already have 700 million cubic metres of logging savings, and 105 million cubic metres of logging savings remain each year. I would like to ask when Mr Tiilikainen is not here: how can we get through the message that Finland has managed to achieve both forest growth and felling growth at the same time? This is important from the point of view that we could move towards a bioeconomy elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u15	Mr President! It is precisely so that we want to move from the present fossil economy to the bioeconomy. It's the big key driver we're driving all the time. That is what the Government Programme obliges us to do, and it is bound by common Finnish commitments, our national commitments. It is true that the growth of Finnish forests has increased by half over the past 60 years — half of our forests have increased in that time — and it has not come by itself, but has come because of good forest management and good know-how that we have always had. And when we take it again that we add some fellings, however, we have a carbon sink growing all the time. It doesn't grow as fast as it used to, but it does. Then there is the second observation: Government and national forestry strategy have started from the fact that current growth does not change much, i.e. according to the precautionary principle. But if today’s growth continues in the future, we have carbon sinks that continue to grow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u16	Mr President! The withdrawal of the United States would be a serious matter, but, as has been said, it will not bring down the Paris Agreement. It does create an international leadership problem in the fight against climate change, and in this situation the role of the EU will be very central. In this context, the EU should immediately start preparing for the introduction of carbon tariffs for countries outside the climate agreement. The Left Alliance has already proposed this last autumn. A carbon duty would tax imported goods at the EU border on the basis of their emissions. Carbon tariffs would create a level playing field in a situation where the United States would unilaterally break away from the Paris climate agreement. In addition, information about a possible carbon duty would put pressure on President Trump to keep the United States involved in the agreement. Carbon tariffs would also prevent other countries' willingness to break out of the climate agreement after the USA. I would like to ask: is the government prepared to promote the introduction of carbon duties in the EU in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u17	Mr President! I have to admit, I'm not very familiar with the subject. But you have to get to know each other. The most important thing is that, when we take decisions relating to the customs system, for example, we find global, international solutions that would concern ourselves with the objectives and keep them in mind, in this case the reduction of emissions, but, on the other hand, we must ensure a smooth trade in order to keep employment at a good level and not take away the conditions for economic growth. Overall, I believe that the issue is important in the sense that we must constantly consider global solutions that enable us to combat climate change and thereby save our important, common ball.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u18	Mr President! There is also Congress in the United States. Let us not assume that this President's decision is now necessarily cut in stone and final, but that there is quite a lot of sense there in Congress that can at least change this decision to some extent. I believe that the European Union should now take a leading role in this matter. Finland and the Nordic countries — those who are members of the EU — could now take the initiative in the Commission's direction that the Commission should, inter alia, open negotiations with the United States on what this means for such bilateral situations in air transport and in many other areas where these emissions occur, in the automotive industry, in all such cases. These will all have to be solved. If products are sold across borders, there are problems of this kind. So I now propose that the Prime Minister contact his colleagues in these other Nordic countries, who are members of the EU, and get the Commission on the road in this area and Europe takes the lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u19	Mr President! I have already done that yesterday, i.e. I have contacted the Nordic colleagues who are members of the EU, and we will also react together if that separation takes place today. It was precisely one of our key messages in those discussions yesterday that we should: The Nordic countries will call on the EU to play a leading role in this matter and to seek a partner from China. In other words, I believe that this European Union—the Chinese axis will now be able to take leadership together, because we will be able to do a great deal together. We can also do much to make that decision in the United States faint.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u20	Värderade Talman! Mr Kari pointed out that Finland's climate and energy policy may not fully respond to this new challenge, which has been presented with possible exit. It may need to be revised or the objectives may need to be revised upwards. Here, too, the role of Europe and China has been highlighted in this possible new constellation. If Europe now raises its own ambitions, it will of course be a major challenge for all of us, also knowing that Europe is not fully united in this respect. The countries of Eastern Europe in particular have been very reluctant to do so. How do you see this from the point of view of European unity? Is there a political will in Europe and in Finland to see the great challenge that we may face from tomorrow?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u21	Mr President! We will find that will in Finland, and we will be in these estimates in 2045 a carbon-neutral society. The same is true in Sweden. Our measures will lead to that goal. We are one of the leading countries in Europe showing the direction in which practical action can be taken here, and that climate strategy, which has been adopted here, is a good sign of that. And now, together, we will regulate and see whether there is still a need to raise goals and the bar. Personally, I am also prepared to consider raising the bar, but this was also discussed in the Nordic context. What is more important, however, is that we effectively implement what we have agreed at the moment, rather than constantly changing our objectives. In that way, we will also show direction for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u22	Mr President! The idea of Europe and China working together here sounds all right. We must remember that the European Union was one player, one party to the Paris Agreement. I do not think it is a bad idea at all that if the USA is now excluded from the agreement, Europe as a single player can, of course, increase its objectives. But if that is the case in Europe, it is important that, within Europe, this burden-sharing of emission reductions goes more fairly than it has done so far. For example, the reduction of emissions targets outside emissions trading in Finland is 39 % when it is 7 % in Poland, and that is not fair to me. If these emission targets are now being tightened up in Europe, then I would ask the Prime Minister: will it be taken care of for Finland that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u23	Mr President! Of course, we assume that this burden will also be shared evenly within the European Union. But we must remember that our baselines are very different, and yes, we must move forward in all countries, even in those countries where the base and the baseline are good. I believe that this is also in our own interest, that we are pursuing more and not so much concerned that the neighbor will do the same. We share the burden as evenly as possible, but we are also ambitious in our own objectives, as stated in our climate and energy strategy. Our forests are growing all the time, and the coal supply, the carbon sink is growing all the time. This is what we need to remember. There are other claims in the air.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u24	Mr President! The specific feature of the climate agreement is that it is global in nature and binding on countries, and in this way it has been very progressive in relation to other environmental agreements. In that sense, it is a great tragedy if the United States now leaves it. Environmental change and climate change also have major global significance: refugees and, as mentioned above, ice meltings in the Arctic. And I would also have drawn attention to the fact that in the United States today the technology is clearly suffering and the companies that are oriented towards improving the environment are suffering. Let's talk about Tesla cars and this kind of thing. The United States is now seeking an advantage for its own old-fashioned industry, and it is precisely in the form of carbon duties or others that we should react to it. But I would have asked about the Arctic in particular. Finland now took over the Presidency of the Arctic Council from the United States. When you read this programme of the Arctic Council, it is climate change and the fight against climate change that play a crucial role. What do we do now, Minister Soini, to make this fight against climate change a key role in the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u25	Mr President! The implementation of the Paris climate agreement is one of the themes of the Arctic Ministerial Conference on Environment 2018, and, just as Mr Haavisto said, this is now our responsibility under our Presidency. In Fairbanks, things were still going well, Foreign Minister Tillerson allowed the Paris climate agreement to be mentioned in the declaration text and also these 2030 targets, the Sustainable Development Goals. I hope that we will now be able to ensure that Arctic cooperation works in the way we agreed together. It must be an optimist in the sense that, if President Trump understood that this was a good business, it would be a good deal to work with the environment in the Arctic too, it might be a way that this decision, which has not been announced, could even change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u26	Mr President! After all, yesterday Parliament adopted its position on the energy and climate strategy by means of a broad consensus across the Government-Opposition boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u27	Mr President! I didn't hear the real question about the rest, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u30	Mr President! Representative Haavisto raised an important point of view in this Arctic dimension. You are doing a good job, Mr Soini, at that first Presidency meeting in view of climate change, by taking its text there and also by getting the United States to accept this text. Now I'm gonna ask you: Does Finland have concrete operational programmes in a potentially changing situation, which could now, through the Arctic Council, respond to this fight against climate change more strongly than might have been thought in the past, because that Arctic Council seems to be in its entirety, where, for example, Ukraine's tensions with Russia are less prominent than in any other area of cooperation? Does Finland therefore have any concrete programme in place to deal with this changing situation, Foreign Minister Soini?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u31	Mr President! Mrs Rinne, your question is most timely. I have five pages of concrete action here which are important. I picked up a few here: the Arctic Energy Conference, the Arctic Biodiversity Congress, the anti-oil drill and the ban on the use of heavy fuel oil, the IMO Polar Code, long-range air pollution and environmental impacts. Although this seemed to be a specific question, this was not what we had agreed. We have, of course, agreed to cooperate, and of course I thank Mrs Rinne for her encouragement. But we have an action programme here, and all countries have approved the Finnish programme, the programme of our Arctic Presidency, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u32	We shall now move on to the next question. Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u33	Mr President! At the beginning of the month, when the government’s plans to weaken the general housing allowance were discussed in this Chamber, it was possible to get the impression from the speech of Finance Minister Orpo that the general housing allowance would actually cover the rent 100%. This is not true, but for a large proportion of the recipients of housing allowance, housing support is not even close to the real level of rent. Even then, the question arose as to whether the government had made its decision to weaken the position of low incomes with incomplete information. This week, the National Economic Research Centre has published a study stating that claims about the effects of housing aid on rents are exaggerated and that the aid is directed at the beneficiaries. Mr Orpo, is the government prepared to reassess its proposal to reduce housing allowance in the light of this new knowledge?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u34	Mr President! I'm sorry if there was a misunderstanding. I meant housing allowance, not housing allowance. Housing subsidies, as is well known, do not cover the entire rent, but housing subsidies offer almost total compensation for housing expenditure, which therefore easily leads to a situation where the landlord is easier and has a lower threshold for raising rents. Above all, with the proposal that we have made, we are seeking to contain the enormous increase in housing aid costs, which are almost 2 billion at the moment. This is a priority and will continue to be prepared. Minister Ruhula will be able to continue with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u35	At this point, you can press the V button to ask for further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u36	Mr President! I hope that the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, will be able to specify what housing subsidies he means and what subsidies he refers to when he says that he can receive housing support in such a way as to cover the rent 100% in the capital region, for example. This study by the State Economic Research Centre does not support the Government’s arguments to undermine this aid. Kela’s leading researcher’s assessment of why housing allowance expenditure is increasing also does not support the Government’s arguments to weaken this support. And when you consider how the government itself has justified this operation, you have said that you want to dismantle the incentive traps with this measure. This will not happen when low incomes move to raise income support, which means that the incentive trap is getting worse. The second argument has been that, through this weakening, you want to reduce the overall rent level and, in the light of all this research, this government objective will not be fulfilled either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u37	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, housing support expenditure has increased by 200 million in 2016 compared to 2015. For this year, this increase from 2015 will be 400 million, reaching more than 2 billion. Of course, the way in which the growth angle of housing support expenditure is reversed requires a number of measures, starting with the existence of sufficiently affordable rental housing. But then this study, which now justifies Mr Li Andersson's argument that the government should change the line it has taken, which is currently in the process of being prepared. The Ministry, together with Kela, is trying to find a way that the goal of folding the growth angle of housing allowance expenditure will be realized. That study: First, the data are from 2008 to 2013, when the highest price per square metre was determined, and second, the researchers warn that the conclusion is clear here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u38	Mr President! In fact, the researchers at VATT have found what has been said by, for example, Helsinki’s central housing policy official: this cut has no effect on the rent level. Kela’s report also shows that, regardless of whether the subsidy has increased in years or not, the rents have been increasing at the same rate, i.e. this connection cannot be demonstrated, even though the government specifically justifies this cut. And when there is no connection, it is only a question of cutting once again the lowest-income unemployed, working, families with children. And, Minister Rehula, you yourself have admitted here that this will increase income support expenditure, the number of people receiving income support. My question is now, Prime Minister, when you said yesterday that 'I am not going to take a situation in which representatives would have to act against their conscience on such a question as they feel is a question of conscience':
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u39	Mr President! We have the same material available to both the government and the opposition. Representatives of the Left Alliance now draw conclusions from this study by Vatti,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u45	Mr President! We all know that there is a great connection between housing support and encouragement to take up work. Now that your only objective is to cut the increase in housing allowance expenditure, would you be prepared to assess this whole from the point of view of what it does, for example, to take part-time work and to receive small jobs in general, because we all know that if you have to move from a normal housing allowance system to income support, then there is the biggest incentive trap that is actually very difficult to get out of, especially in the capital region? I hope that Minister Orpo will answer yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u47	Mr President! We know that in areas where housing is expensive, housing allowance is not enough, and people are forced to take income support to cope with housing costs. This is causing a really bad incentive trap. For this reason, it would certainly be worth considering whether the maximum level of housing allowance could be increased by adjusting the variation per municipality so that it would not be based on the rent costs of individual housing, but rather on the overall rent level of the area, the size of the household and the income of the household. This model has not been properly studied in Finland, although it might help to contain the worst incentive traps and curb the rise in rent levels. Is the government prepared to consider and clarify this type of housing allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u48	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, Parliament approved the comprehensive reform of the housing allowance system, which entered into force at the beginning of 2015, which introduced changes, the effects of which are not yet known to us. Secondly, when Mr Mikkonen asked whether the government was prepared to assess: we have put in place a reform of social security, a reform of social security incentives, a change that will guide the work of the coming parliamentary term so that it will be easier to accept work in the future. When you ask whether you are ready to assess, yes, because housing benefits are one part of the whole of social security that must be included in the assessment and work. We have more of a shortage of good ideas and ideas. Thank you for making such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u49	Mr President! Everyone in this Chamber understands that the best way of curbing the rise in rents is, of course, adequate housing production, especially the production of rental dwellings. No one thought that the decision taken by the government in the middle row would lead to a reduction in rents, but the aim was precisely to curb the increase in rents. I have not read this study by VATT, but then people who are better acquainted with the market economy can tell me, perhaps representatives of Andersson and partners, how is it possible that the investment of around two billion in housing aid would not have any effect on the rent level? Of course, I am not proposing to cut the housing allowance by EUR 2 billion, but it is quite absurd to claim — and this study by Mr VATT is not known to claim — that this housing aid does not affect the level of rent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u50	This did not include the actual question. We will take another supplementary question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u51	Mr President! It is a question of what the government now claims when it proposes to reduce housing allowance. It is precisely the government that has reached an unambiguous conclusion here, namely that it has indeed claimed and justified the weakening of housing allowance by reducing the rent level, i.e. acting in a way that curbs the increase in the rent level,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u54	Mr President! The housing allowance is therefore housing allowance and income support housing allowance, which in some cases fully covers housing expenditure. But, Mr Left-wing Union, you do not seem to have any bearing on the expenditure and indebtedness of state money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u55	We're going to the next question. Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u56	Mr President! The Government has spoken of the importance of education and research, the use of research results, facts as the basis for decision-making. Let us consider: if the Helsinki region were to be threatened by a terrorist act in which 150 people were killed, many of them would be traumatized for years, many of them children, it would be quite certain that the government would do everything in its power to prevent this happening. Now, in the context of alcohol reform, despite the stunning statements made by almost all experts, there have been statements from various ministers that the proposal should be taken forward in any event. I would ask the ministers, Orpo, Soini and Sipilä: do you appreciate the experts and how relevant you are to opinions based on the research results of the experts? And in the eyes of the public, will the government contribute to the well-being of citizens, children and society as a whole, or will it only work to promote the interests of small groups of interests?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u57	Mr President! The overall reform of the Alcohol Act is on the agenda of the Sipilä Government, which has been being prepared for a year and a half. Today we are in a situation where the consultation process has been conducted and feedback has been received, and changes to the legislation are being made on the basis of the consultation in so far as there is agreement. Secondly, when you read the draft of the government's proposal which has been in the consultation, it has been very openly reported on the effects of this proposal and the proposal. It is one part of careful legislative preparation that impact assessments are carried out. Impact assessments have been sought many times in this Chamber, and in this law, if any, they have been carried out with particular care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u59	This question can be asked for further questions by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u60	Mr President! I asked the ministers Orpo, Soini and Sipilä to answer: do you appreciate the experts and how relevant do you consider statements based on the experts' research results? If, in any case, the proposals agreed between the representatives of the governments' groups are to be taken forward and the expert opinions are not taken into account in any way, what is the significance of the time-consuming consultations in general?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u61	Mr President! The expert opinions are to be consulted: making the necessary changes which are mutually acceptable. Here, too, there are different views on those expert opinions. Because they're different. You might want to read that collection that's all public. Here, too, it can be said of the preparatory officials that, more carefully than usual, given the sensitivity and emotional nature of the matter, a summary of the opinion has been made. It's very evaluable and readable for everyone. And within the government, the drafting of the law is progressing in such a way that we have a day when, when we find a mutual agreement, the proposal is available to Parliament, even on the basis of expert feedback.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u62	Mr President! According to the results of the study, these differences in the length of life span in men are very much explained by alcohol and excessive alcohol consumption. According to experts, alcohol is one of our greatest health scourges. Now, Minister, a number of reports and expert opinions are in favour of making very precise decisions on alcohol law and also of making prudent, cautious decisions. Now this debate has moved here among the government parties and the leaders of the groups are holding this debate. Minister, are you going to take a stand on this issue, or are you going to stand by and watch what is being done with this key health policy issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u63	Mr President! The feedback of the last few days has been that the issue is indeed being discussed much more widely than among the chairmen of government groups or even in Parliament, in the Parliamentary Committee. If there's a wide-ranging civil debate going on somewhere, here. Second of all, am I going to take a stand? Of course I'll take a stand. When there is a situation where a government proposal is submitted, as far as it is possible and agreement and consensus have been found, then it is the position. What things must be taken into account? Very openly, the draft government proposal, which has been the subject of the consultation round, tells us, for example, what the health policy implications of this proposal are. They have been told very openly and can be evaluated by all. It has been one part of the advance of this law. For my part, I have taken a stand on 11 February last year, and there has been a situation since then in which a document has been sent to the consultation. At that point too, the Minister of Responsibility has taken a stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u64	Mr President! The Christian Democrats must be deeply surprised at the comparison between terrorism and the reform of the alcohol law. That's shootin' out of the bushes. In 95 the grocery stores became tentacles and ciders, and we are still alive here in Finland. With this reform it is estimated that the sale price of beer A, namely four cells, tentacles and cider, would fall by 40%, and of course trade would benefit significantly from this, for example in sparsely populated areas. There would be more jobs, EUR 35 million in tax revenue. And the passenger imports of A-beer and tentacles would be halved, i.e. even the Estonian liquor rally would be interfered with. Prime Minister, you are in charge of the Government. We have a deal a year ago, as Secretary of State Soini referred to in relation to Trump. Are you going to take this deal forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u65	Mr. Speaker! In this role, as Minister for Alcohol in this country for some time, it is my job to ensure that the things agreed together within the government move forward. It is the role of all of us responsible ministers on our own property. Secondly, in what form and in what way will the overall reform of the alcohol law be carried out? There are therefore a number of issues relating to the dismantling of red tape, the business sector, the promotion of the restaurant sector — a number of issues in which Finnish legislation is brought into line with the constitutional rules laid down in 2000. These are one part of the whole that I am currently opposed to preparing, and my own work, my own property, I am trying to manage at this point too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u66	Mr President! One clear problem with the impact assessment of STM is that the Ministry does not have the expertise to assess the impact of industry and employment. In addition, THL does not have the expertise to assess changes in consumer behaviour, for example, using economic methods. Thus, for example, the estimate of 150 additional deaths often presented is the so-called ceteris paribus estimate, which is based on the assumption that the change would have no impact on the sales volume of the Alko and passenger imports. There are established practices for assessing changes in consumer behaviour, but for some reason they have not been introduced, neither in THL nor in STM. Why, Minister Ruhula?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u67	Mr President! Preparatory women and men shall act under official responsibility,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u70	And now we are quick to ask the following questions. — Representative Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u71	Värderade Talman! Personer med hörselskada behöver tolkhjälp i det vanliga livet, till exempel i banken eller i studierna. Dessa tolkjänster ska nu upphandlas av Folkpensionanstalten och systemet kommer att ändras.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u72	Mr President! At the moment, we're in the middle of this bidding. Understandably Kela does not comment on this in public, and it is also known that Kela is supervised by a delegation under the Parliament. I may not have fully understood the logic of what this competition has to do with the qualifications of interpreters. We know where interpreters are trained and qualified. Sign language is, as you know, a very dear thing to me. I am also concerned that the Finnish-Swedish sign language will receive the treatment it deserves. Language is of the utmost importance to us. Without language, we are very weak, and I am very concerned about this competition from Kela.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u73	Next question, Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u74	Mr President! According to the Finnish Immigration Service, some 5,000 undocumented asylum seekers have already disappeared beyond the reach of the authority. This may include persons whose asylum application has been rejected, for example because of their serious criminal background, and who therefore pose a serious threat to national security. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, a total of some 4,000 asylum seekers live in private accommodation, i.e. outside the reception centre, of which a tenth already live in home accommodation. Both in private accommodation and in the reception centre, the asylum seeker has free movement and thus disappears without a trace. Persons who are linked to terrorist organisations can therefore also reside illegally in Finland. I therefore ask the Prime Minister what measures the government is taking or has taken to keep the authorities informed of the location of asylum seekers throughout the asylum process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u75	The Minister of the Interior is not here to answer this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u76	Next question, Congressman Lehti.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u77	Mr President! I have a question for the Minister of Finance Orpo. We were rather surprised that the government might have considered EU membership. I understand that Finland has gained a lot of good in joining the EU. Is there a larger project?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u78	Mr President! I'm sure Mr. Lehti refers to the debate on the development of Emu. Finland’s interest is a stable euro area, an evolving euro area and an evolving European economy. The Government is united in its commitment to these objectives, and we must act in accordance with the need for stable development. It is now important for us to have a debate on the basis of the EU-EMU development document. Monetary union is by no means ready; there is much to correct. But they are doing just the right thing now: focusing on the finalisation of the Banking Union, finalising the Capital Union and looking with an open mind at how we can continue to develop the euro area that is important to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u79	We'll take one more question. Congressman Kaikonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u80	Mr President! During the winter and spring, many economic experts have expressed their opinion that the government will not reach its own economic and employment objectives. Now, however, the further spring goes, more and more good financial news is coming from here. It is said that today Finland has overtaken economic growth since many years in Sweden, which is very good news. And, according to recent data, economic growth in the early part of the year has been approaching 3% — at least at least percentages are rising with certainty. Mr President! In the light of these ever-increasing economic figures, what is the government's own assessment of this? Is it possible that the government can achieve these key economic and employment objectives after all?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u81	Mr President! That early economic development has surprised all the forecasts. It has exceeded the forecasts of all the forecasting institutions, starting at almost 3%. IMD also received a very positive report yesterday: competitiveness Finland has risen by five articles compared to last year, and it is particularly gratifying that we are still number one in education and that we have increased by eight in the performance of companies, which indicates that the effects of the competitiveness pact have immediately begun to work, and it is also reflected in the moods of companies. The efficiency of the same public administration has increased by five points. In other words, all the indicators are now pointing in the right direction, and it does provide the basis for us also being able to achieve our own goals. But now we are not going to have to go down the road, but we have to keep on working in the same direction as we have done so far. From a half-way point of view, it looks pretty good now, too, with regard to these remaining objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u82	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The case was put on the table at the plenary session on 18 May 2017 at which it was removed from the agenda on 23 May 2017. In this context, the debate is also allowed on the 4th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u83	Mr President! Minister! I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister is here now that this matter is being continued. So this is about the fate of Vaasa Central Hospital, what status it will have when places are shared. Vaasa Central Hospital is located in an area with a population base of 170,000. Full-service hospitals are located in areas where the population base is only 103000 to 130000. One of the criteria for who receives extensive emergency care has also been the trip to university hospitals. Vaasa Central Hospital is the longest way to its university hospital, Turku. It's 300 miles. It will take 4 hours 16 minutes to break that distance by car if you trust Maps. If the central hospital in Vaasa does not get the status of extensive emergency services behind it, it may indeed mean what the previous speakers have said here, for example, that the emergency services will have to go to Pori. It really does not last as long as in Turku from Vaasa. You can get to Pori in less than an hour. It only lasts 3 hours 18 minutes. These are so serious that we need to pay attention to them. If you need help quickly during the night, such as dissolving or similar, you need to get to a high - quality treatment faster than three or four hours. If, for example, this kind of treatment is arranged in Seinäjoki, it will certainly be one way for Seinäjoki for an hour, and if the on-call ambulance happens to be at the other end, it will be two hours. So that too is not a very good solution. In addition, I would ask the Minister to concentrate a little on Finland's exports. Twelve per cent of Finland's technology exports and more than 30 per cent of energy technology exports depart from the Vaasa region. For such percentages to be reached, we need a workforce in Vaasa, we also need a foreign know-how in Vaasa, we need skilled people who will not be there if, for example, family members cannot be secure, they will not be able to guarantee full-time on-call and full-time care when needed. It is extremely important that Vaasa Central Hospital remains. In Vaasa, 2 per cent of the total population of Finland lives. Nearly 30 per cent of them speak Swedish in their native language. In all large Ostrobothnia, 51 per cent of the population are Swedish-speaking. This means that when these people need treatment when they are ill, they are entitled to treatment in their native language according to the Finnish Constitution. Vaasa Central Hospital, on the other hand, is the only truly bilingual hospital in this country. It is not enough for us to transfer the emergency services to the Finnish-speaking city of Seinäjoki and say that we need to learn Swedish and all of them can learn Swedish. Jo, det är sant att alla kan snacka scolsvenska, men det rucker inte. Det är bara så. You also need to know a little bit of dialects, and you need to know a little more difficult dialect and get along with people. And when a person is sick, he needs tender care, holding hands and understanding, and understanding of the things that weigh on him, that affect his healing. This is an issue that needs to be taken into account once and for all. It has also been said in this debate in the past that nothing will change, that in Vaasa nothing will change when you take away the rights of a full service hospital or do not grant them to Vaasa. Well, if nothing changes in this system, why on earth are we doing this? Why are we doing this? As far as Ostrobothnia is concerned, I can tell you that at least the costs of the Central Hospital in Seinäjoki are increasing quite dramatically, because bilingualism is not free of charge. It is not even free in Vaasa, even though it is a truly bilingual hospital. It already eats a million and a half a year. How much does it eat in Seinäjoki when we begin to train Finnish-speaking people who have read middle school Swedish, possibly the student half of Swedish, so that they can use it in a smooth way? A million and a half a year isn't enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u84	Mr President, ärade talman! Jag vill börja med att tacka minister Rehula för att ni är ar i salen i dag. När vi behandlade det ox medborgrinitiativet för två veckor sedan ställdes många frågor, frågor som fortfarande vätar på svar. Därför är jag mycket nöjd över att ministern är ox, förhopningsvis också kan svara på våra frågor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u85	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! Vi fortsätter discussionen från den 17 maj var det visst, så det blir en del upprepningar. Jag vill i alla fall börja med att tacka minister Rehula för att ni är här på plats i dag, så att vi har möjlighet att ställa lite frågor kring det ärendet. Riksdagens beslut före julen att lämna Vasa centralsjukhus utan omfattande jour är problemmatiskt ur många oika synviklar, men framför allt — det vill jag betona ännu en gång — är det problemmatiskt därför att de grundläggande språkliga rattigheterna på det raus sättet uppenbart riskerar att inte förverkligas. Vasa centralsjukhus är ett il fungerande genuint TVåspråkigt sjukhus. Det kan man inte säga om Seinäjoki, alltså när det gäller TVåspråkigheten. Medborgarinitiativet och lagmotionen i följande ärende erbjuder nu regeringen och ricksdage en öjlighet att ändra sin linje, att gå in för den modell, den så kallade 12+1 modellen, där också Vasa centralsjuchus skulle vara ett fulljoursjukhus. Vasa centralsjukhus phyller under kriterier för ett sjukhus med omfattande jour, det har vi gått igenom är flera gånger, dessutom med red marginal. Vasa centralsjukhus är även i topp Jämfört med många andra centralsjukhus som beviljas status för omfattande joursjuchus. Dossutom, inte minst, utan kanske framför allt anser jag att de grundlagsenliga rättigheterna och kvaliteten naturligtvis bör ges högsta prioritet i den ar frågan. Och då kommer man onekligen till att det enklaste och milligaste alternativet — som dessutom sett ur de språkliga rättigheternas synvinkel är det enda fungerande alternativet — är att ändra älso- och sjukårdslagens 50 § 3 moment så att det tillåter en modell med 12+1 sjukhus med omfattande jour. Och det skulle då betyda att vi godkänner medborgrinitiativet som nu behandlas och också den lagmotion som vi har i följande ärende, och som över 40 ledamöter undertecknat och lämnat in och som tar sikte på samma sak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u86	Mr President, the värderade talman! When the on-call decree was discussed in Parliament in the autumn, the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group spoke and voted in favour of Vaasa Central Hospital being among the hospitals receiving extensive emergency services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u87	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I appreciate that Minister Rehula is here to listen to our debate and to answer our questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u88	Mr President! The initiative requires Vaasa Hospital to become a large-scale emergency care hospital. However, I do not think that the linguistic rights that have been used as a basis can stand a logical examination here. That is why we study Swedish throughout the country, so that the rights of Swedish-speaking people will be fulfilled throughout the country. That is the basis for broad bilingualism. So, what's the point of this study now? If it is feared that not all Swedish dialects will be understood in Seinäjoki, I can take comfort in the fact that Savo and Karelia will not necessarily understand the dialects. And the fact that there could be small language problems is commonplace in this country: we have had Estonian and Russian doctors on the eastern border for a long time, and that is where the language barrier can be real. I don't think the situation in Seinäjoki would get that bad. I would also like to ask, as this initiative now talks only about Vaasa and this debate is just about Vaasa, and the reform leaves many other cities in this country without a large-scale emergency hospital, such as Kotka, Kouvola, Mikkeli and Savonlinna: are their residents and their services now less valuable? However, there is more population in these centres than in Vaasa, at least if we talk about the Kouvola case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u89	Looks like there's a need for a debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u90	Mr President! The previous speaker should be familiar with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and should also be familiar with our constitution and linguistic rights at all. Then you wouldn't have to ask questions like this. It is now a question of having the same fundamental rights in the whole country, whether we live in Vaasa or Pietarsaari or Kouvola or Kotka, and now we should seek a solution that will ensure that these linguistic rights are implemented in a uniform and equal manner throughout the country. In this context, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that in this case it would be the best solution for both Vaasa and the Seinäjoki River to receive a large number of emergency services. The President shall also: As mentioned earlier in the speech, Niinistö has stated in the Minutes itself that services must in practice also be provided in both Swedish and Finnish in Seinäjoki. President! Now is the time to listen to what Minister Ruhula thinks. Will Minister Rehula now give us answers to these questions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u91	Mr President! After all, this matter was before us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when these on-call regulations were decided. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health was not unanimous in its report. This issue has now come before us again in the form of a citizens' initiative, and I believe that this message must be taken very seriously. The initiative has collected 50,000 names in a few weeks, and I think it's pretty tough. This is a strong message from the Vaasa region about these linguistic fundamental rights. I hope, however, that this matter will now be dealt with properly here in Parliament, and later in committee, as long as there is some congestion. I would have asked the Minister: do you see any possibility of returning Vaasa's extensive emergency services to the hospital once the decision has already been made?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u92	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä mentioned Kotka and Mikkeli. That's the government's decision to exclude them. You don't have to look this way. Looking at Sitra’s report on the 12 region options in the order of size of the population predicted in 2025: Helsinki, Tampere, Turku, Oulu, Vaasa — fifth place in Vaasa. Would it not, Minister Rehula, be worth developing services where there are people, where there are businesses and where the population is growing? Is there any point in banning such a region from developing its own special care while competing in the global market? Today we have been talking about the Paris climate agreement, we have been talking about Finland's national energy and climate strategy. We have the leading energy technology cluster in Northern Europe, the Nordic countries in Finland and Vaasa. That ecosystem includes a developing central hospital. It doesn't make any sense to deny it development, does it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u93	Mr President! Of course, I still fully support the idea of involving Vaasa Central Hospital in the central hospitals of the large-scale emergency status. Of these citizens' initiatives: according to the Constitution, they are addressed to Parliament, not to the Government, which means that it is, in so far as it is discussed and dealt with by Parliament, how it is viewed. It's not exactly a government rook. There are many exemplary, excellent things in Vaasa. In addition to a vibrant business life, Vaasa also has the most healthy population on the coast. Of course, this fact poses its own challenges here, but a criticism and criticism that says that the government is nonsalera in the Vaasa region or that it is not being invested in it is completely unwarranted. After all, the properties of Vaasa Central Hospital have recently invested 130 million in a social welfare building and have been authorised to invest in it. So, practical things talk about everything other than a time of stagnation. Auvo Rauhala has also stated that the future of Vaasa Central Hospital lies largely in our own hands,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u94	Mr President! The citizens' initiative, signed by 67,000 people, when signatures come from one region around one city, is of course a very serious message for us parliamentarians and also for the government of the country. The real worry and sorrow and fear is now in the Vaasa region and in Coastal Ostrobothnia about people's social services, and yet at least I myself have understood from all the explanations I have read that most of the emergency services in Vaasa are maintained, and apparently the operations of surgery may even increase somewhat with this reform at the Vaasa Central Hospital. It would be interesting to hear comments from Minister Rehula on this. I'm sure we'll have to go over this in English again. However, I have little understood that now all hospitals should cooperate, and it is this erva regional cooperation, university hospital cooperation around the Turku University Hospital that is the essential place where the Vaasa Central Hospital is defended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u95	Mr President, ärade talman! Jag är Jätteglad att svenskatalande kollegor har pratat svenska just nu bull.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u96	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä asked why people wanted to put people in a position of inequality, and he then referred to a few localities, such as Kotka was one of them. I say as a colleague here: it is worth asking inside the government, because if I remember how this process actually went within the government — when we were watching the whole issue of social security and the on-call debate outside — then from the outset, as I recall, the centre drove the construction of social services around 18 hospitals and also extensive emergency services, while the coalition wanted to build them on the basis of 5 university hospitals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u97	Mr President! Personally, I do not belong in any way to the health experts, but I know that at no time has the assembly been in five hospitals to centralise this emergency service, of course not. Now, with merit, we want to mix it up. In fact, when Mr Nylund spoke earlier about the number of social areas, there has been a debate. At the time, THL suggested that we could manage in the 4 to 5 regions. Quite widely, experts felt that 5 or 12 social welfare areas would be sufficient. But we must now remove it from this issue. In my opinion, it is neither fair nor honest here to suggest that the assembly has driven a large number of emergency services to 5 hospitals — no. And now that this initiative is under discussion, the citizens' initiative must be dealt with carefully and thoroughly. And I believe that in all these areas where a large number of emergency services are about to leave,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u98	Värderade Talman! Riksdage har effecter omröstning besluat att Vasas fulljoursjukhus finns i Seinäjoki. Detta trots att både sakkunniga, justitiekanslern och grundlagsutskottet ansett att Vasa centralsjukhus har battre förutsättningar att betjäna de österbotniska invånarna både med tanke på vård på sitt eget modersmål och med tanke på kortare och tryggare avstånd till vården.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u99	Irade the Talman! För en vecka sedan diskuterade vi arv regeringens klimat- och energispolitiska strategist. Vasa knyter an till den ox strategistin såtillvida att Vasa är den nordiska stad som har det högsta kolhandavtrycket, det vill säga den enskilda region som mest inverkar på att änka kolidioxidutsläppen globalt. Det au region man ska ta hand om. Det är inte en region vars kkonkurrenskraft man medvenet ska försämra.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u100	Mr President! I myself am quite Finnish — I understand Swedish to a certain extent, and I speak it smallly and come from North Karelia, which is very Finnish — but nevertheless I am definitely speaking for this citizens’ initiative. And it is this speech that I am speaking as a nurse because, especially when you are sick, you must be able to tell people in your native language. When you are sick, you are the most vulnerable, and that is why you need someone to talk to yourself without thinking about the words and whether you control grammar or anything else. It is not enough to control everyday language. And if I think of Joensuu, there will be Swedish speakers there too, but you cannot be yourself in that communication if you do not have that same language-speaking nurse in the patient. It is a question of human rights, and it is also a question of human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u101	Let me give the following answers to this debate: Strand, Östman, Koski and Mäkelä, Jani. Then we will go to the list of speakers, and then perhaps we will go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u102	Mr President! There are four times as many people per square kilometre in Vaasa as in Seinäjoki, of whom 70 per cent are Finnish-speaking. There is a lot of talk here about Swedish, but there are also more Finnish-speaking people per square kilometre, whose services must be guaranteed and who are part of the Nordic Energy Capital, an extremely important part of it. I would also like to mention quality and patient safety. Especially these are the best in the country. Whose patient safety in this country is improved by leaving Vaasa out of this list? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u103	Mr President! Mr Heinonen drew attention to this when I said that the assembly had never been in favour of this matter on call solely on five hospitals. That's where he was right. I got it wrong. It was indeed the case that, as we know, the first willful state of the assembly was that they would have built a social welfare reform on the basis of five university hospitals, but that has changed along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u104	Mr President! I cannot help mentioning that 19 patients from the Hospital District of Vaasa, mainly due to minor wounds, visited Seinäjoki Central Hospital last year. Vaasa Central Hospital does not send or will send patients to Seinäjoki from their own emergency services, at least with the information currently available to representatives from the Ministry or from the Central Hospital itself. The Association of Ostrobothnia has also announced that it is looking for a pilot to implement freedom of choice for social services. I would now have liked to have heard from the representatives of the region and, in particular, the RKP, who, as far as the people of the region are concerned, are genuinely concerned about this bilingualism and the availability and existence of social services and their future, the conditions for responding to this pilot project and its pursuit in the Vaasa region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u105	Mr President! I am asking about this initiative because there is now a debate on the initiative and not on the decisions of the government or on the decisions of Parliament. The initiative specifically emphasises Vaasa, not these other cities. Therefore, it is allowed to ask why the emphasis is on Vaasa. Now, if a compromise is made that places 12 large emergency hospitals on the Finnish map, that map will look different from a map with 18 hospitals. Personally, I would have agreed with 18 hospitals, but now that Parliament has already taken a democratic decision on these hospitals, do you think it would be sensible to open every region in this Chamber separately with a citizens' initiative? Is the RKP now going to run a citizens' initiative that opens up the question of, for example, Kouvola's extensive emergency care hospital?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u106	Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u107	Mr President! Today we are dealing with the citizens' initiative on the status of Vaasa Central Hospital, and we are doing political and judicial history in many ways today. Probably never before, of course not for many years, has there been a citizens' initiative, which in practice is a local issue in one area, which has now come to Parliament. But, yes, 67,000 signatures are a message that there is now a great deal of fear and concern in coastal Ostrobothnia and the Vaasa region about the development of special care and the future of Vaasa Central Hospital. This debate is certainly valuable for this reason, and it is very valuable — and I also agree with the previous thanks that Minister Rehula is here — that it can now be explained once again that emergency services are not leaving Vaasa and Vaasa Central Hospital will continue to be a hard competence unit in special medical care. According to the information I have received, there will continue to be surgery, and it may even increase. But, Mr President, as a member of Parliament in the constituency of Vaasa, I have the greatest concern that this debate on emergency hospitals is once again tearing apart our province and our territoriality. Unfortunately, in Mr Strand's speech, which I very much appreciated, these confrontational speeches by Vaasa and Seinäjoki have once again been echoed, which, I dare say, are quite conservative and a return to somewhere twenty or thirty years ago. The central hospitals of Vaasa and Seinäjoki must cooperate. They're already doing it. Patients visit mainland, southern Ostrobothnia, inland treatment in Vaasa, they like that treatment, and certainly traffic can also be found in Seinäjoki. I hope that now, with emotion and fear of the future, we will not begin to pull a fence. We need each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u108	Mr President, värderade talman! Some might think that this is a mere citizens' initiative, a mere hospital, a mere right to equal treatment is being discussed here, that it is merely a debate about the need for every Finnish citizen to have as equal services as possible. We will talk about that too, but also about an even bigger question. How did we get to the point where the Constitution was seen not as a safety but as a disadvantage? This is how many representatives of the Government Party have pointed out, although not today in this Chamber, which I am pleased about. How did we get to the point where constitutional rights are the secondary concern that constitutional rights are something that will be reviewed after the political objectives have been achieved? Mr President! Under the leadership of Minister Sipilä, the government has deviated from a fundamental principle in this respect, and that is the steak of this issue. That is the point which should make everyone concerned about this line, including the assembly and the representatives of the centre. With regard to the on-call reform, it meant that some of the people are concerned about their future, because they see this as an omen of other future policies. Tomorrow, it might mean something else. Big principles should not be changed lightly, and you cannot judge other than light criteria if you do not even want to present them — if the representatives of the government parties do not even bother to present them. If the only reason is that this was decided, the number is 12, it is not changed, or we did not have time to study, then the change of principles previously cut into stone has been made on very light grounds. You should trust your expertise. Sitra has stated that the Government’s line on this issue is not justified. The measurements of THL show that Vaasa Central Hospital is among the top three hospitals in the country, measured by several meters. With regard to the Government's climate and energy policy report, Vaasa has the largest carbon handprint in the Nordic countries, i.e. it has the greatest positive impact on reducing emissions worldwide from all Nordic cities. This competitive advantage is now sought under conditions which are intended to weaken — without justification.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u109	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen has just referred to me. I said in the previous speech that there are four times as many people per square kilometre in Vaasa as there are in Seinäjoki. It's nothing old-fashioned to build fences, it's a fact, you can check it out from Wikipedia. These limits will then be created if political cow trade and reality and substance are too far apart from each other. I am the first to contribute to the new cooperation that will bring all the North Pole regions to the world. It's obvious. But even the substance must have some meaning, and that is exactly what people here have reacted to, that it has been so vague about this whole process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u110	Mr President! It was very nice to hear that Mr Strand, who is also the chairman of the Vaasa City Council, still believes that we should not start putting Vaasa and the Wall River against each other in any way in the development of industry or society. It just sounded like it, it sounded a little sad. Of course, all of us in this Chamber also have a responsibility to ensure that people who need special care, who are very ill, are not intimidated — not to create the impression that the hospital is running out or that the emergency services are running out. There we will certainly have with Mr Strand, when we both represent the same region and the same constituency, work together to ensure that unnecessary fears do not spread, because this number of signatures does say a little about it that perhaps there has been some misinformation in the Vaasa region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u111	Mr President! Surely, nearly 70,000 people have not heard false information when they find out that the parliament has decided that there will be no widespread emergency services in Vaasa in the future. That is why this citizens' initiative has been taken, and that is why these people are now also waiting for what Minister Rehula will answer these questions today. Still, we haven't received any answers yet. I do not know whether the Minister has even thought that he will answer these questions, but it would be desirable for you to answer something. I hope, Mr President, that the Minister will also take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u112	We will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u113	Mr President! In this debate, we have heard from both the Centre Party and the Coalition Party that nothing changes with regard to Vaasa. Nothing changes. There's even more surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u116	Mr President! It is good to hear that there is now a unified view that expert opinions are worthy and competent. However, my attention to this extensive status: It is not something that can be saved or restored; it is a completely new definition, which is linked to this reform of the Health Care Act. In any event, in the previous referral debate, when this reform of the Health Care Act was carried out, a distinction was made and the wording of Article 43 was clarified as to what needs to be done and what needs to be agreed on, and these entries are binding and, above all, the division of labour and responsibilities within and within the Erva region, concerning the organisation agreement. Fortunately, however, if the Hospital District of Vaasa continues to show its inefficiencies in the absence of clear cooperation in its own erva area, it is also stated in the section that if the organisation agreement does not meet the requirements of the law or cause any other harm which is not the subject of the law, then the Government will have the possibility to determine the content of the contract. In other words, within the framework of this legislative reform, the Hospital District of Vaasa, just as in other areas of this country, this social welfare reform will have the opportunity, within the framework of its own erva area and within it, to impose the division of labour and responsibilities that it desires, and it will have to be legally guaranteed the resources, and quite clearly this includes the resources,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u117	Now would be the time to move on to this platform if the representative continues. — It appears that no further action will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u118	Värderade Talman! Vi har nu debaterat här om us. Minister Rehula har hört alla våra frågor, han har nog variant tålmodig och lyssnat. Nu skulle det vice dags att också svara på frågorna. Jag tror att vi har ställt alla de frågor vi har. Närmare 70000 Människor vänna på någon typ av svar. Man vill veta varför Vasa inte finns med bland de bull 12 fulljoursjukhusen, man vill veta orsaken. Jag tycker att det är berättigat att ge dem också ett svar, också rai i dag. Sedan hoppas jag att ricksdage tar det ox medborgariativet på allvar, venilerar och diskuterar det i utskotten. Och det allra bästa skulle ha variety att man skulle ha gått in för en reform där landskapen själva får öjlighet att bestemma om hur brud jour man ska ha. Men det är ett beslut som är i regeringens heider, och den reformen ligger för tilfället är i riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u119	Mr President! Vaasa will continue to have a hospital on call in many special fields. Vaasa needs to go after emergency services, hopefully as little as today. The individual, dozens of cases, situations that cannot be dealt with in Vaasa, then are treated in another hospital, mainly in a university hospital. In Ostrobothnia, it is wanted to rely on Turku’s erva. After all, it is not true that in an automatically human situation where urgent care cannot be provided in Vaasa, whether by road or otherwise, would be exported to Turku, when part of it is brought to Helsinki, for example. Secondly, I have never said or said that Vaasa Hospital would remain in its present state. That is another argument that has been made here. I have not said or say, since I have said several times that none of the current central hospitals in this country will remain the same. What is absolutely essential is the kind of joint work that our Finnish hospitals will accomplish in the coming months. Why in the next few months? Because there is a division of work between different hospitals in preparation, and in the coming years, our health care is developing in a way where there is less and less of a treatment period in the hospital. The treatment cycles are getting shorter and shorter. It's about every hospital in our house. I am not happy to use the word 'no' which has been used quite recently in Ostrobothnia in a situation where all energy should be concentrated on the fact that people's sense of security has been shaken by the fact that claims have been made, as has been the case in this debate, which has nothing to do with reality. What do I mean by that? Vaasa will continue to have a hospital on call in a number of specific areas. This is where a congressman talked about childbirth. In Vaasa, children will be born in the future. In Vaasa there will continue to be surgical activity. What are the exactist areas of speciality in Vaasa? What are 17 other current central hospitals? One part of the solution is what happens in the erva regions, in the future in the cooperation areas. Today, in the Health Care Act, we have a provision which would have required the regions to make up their own, as I recall, the term 'arrangement agreement', which deals with the division of labour. These agreements, which agree on the division of labour, are somewhat incomplete in this country. The law that came into force five months ago does not prevent Vaasa Hospital from developing. On the contrary, it is even desirable to be innovative and proactive. [Foresdom :It's all about him! ] I will mention only one representative in this regard by name. Representative Östman was concerned about the funding of Vaasa Hospital. We are going to funding social welfare and health care through need-based funding, a model in which the money is not allocated to a single health centre or a single hospital, but to services based on the need for services. We do not have a calculation in any paper, a plan to have someone in a hospital with their own money. If I don't remember quite correctly, Vaasa Hospital got an investment decision here the other day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u120	Mr President! If that is the case, as the Minister has just said — and of course I have no reason to doubt it — that these activities are maintained at the Vaasa Central Hospital, what is there, and there is still emergency services and so forth, then why can the Vaasa Central Hospital not be a large-scale emergency hospital? What prevents it from having the same status as it is at the moment? It is also a matter of people in that area being really worried. People fear that they will not be understood when they have to go to the hospital, and it is now, after all, that certain things will have to be done there in Seinäjoki. It is true that there are no small wounds to be sewn. They will be sewn there if that wound happens to come somewhere nearby. That is quite clear. But what is the reason for preventing this status for Vaasa? This is the big question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u121	To the list of speakers, Mr Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u122	Mr President! I was about to ask the same question as the previous speaker here. Thank you to the Minister for your answers, but one question was not answered: why not? You can think of this large emergency hospital in Vaasa? Well, it wouldn't be anyone's fault, given the 12+1 model. No one’s services would weaken, on the contrary they would improve. And I have not seen or heard such calculations that it would cost a great deal of money. On the contrary, I am in that faith and I have been given the impression that when you want — and you have to make sure — to get service in Swedish in Seinäjoki, it will also cost you quite a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u123	Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank Minister Ruhula for his very comprehensive speech and explanation. It corrected a great deal of false information and hopefully at least slightly dispelled the fears that the signatories of this citizens' initiative will certainly have. Now, as opinion leaders, we in the province, the representatives, including us in the constituency of Vaasa, have quite a big responsibility in providing the right information and clearing up and alleviating fears, not inciting fears. Of course, many things have happened along the way in the special care of Vaasa constituency and Ostrobothnia. Just as the Minister mentioned earlier, the Hospital District of Vaasa decided a few years ago that it decided to move to the erva region of the Turku University Hospital, away from TAYS, Tampere University Central Hospital, the erva area, and it was as if this connection between the sub-terranean communities and the unity of the lawfulness in special medical care was slightly broken. Yes, I must say that I personally consider that decision to be incorrect. Well, it's history, of course, and you have to live with it, but it's also good to take that into account in this debate. Mr President! To Mr Blomqvist, I would like to say that I attach great importance to fundamental linguistic rights and I think it is rich that we speak both Swedish and Finnish, of course hundreds of other languages in Finland, but that we have two living languages, Finnish and Swedish, is very important. I hope that, now that this debate on bilingualism has taken place in such depth here in the great Chamber of Parliament, this will also be reflected in that Ostrobothnia and South Ostrobothnia, and we will have a whole new kind of cooperation, which will increase our competitiveness, to develop our regions. And yes, Mr President, we need bilingual institutions, bilingual hospitals, bilingual schools, living bilingualism and good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u124	Mr President! I must mention — I do not know whether Mr Kurvinen noticed — that we were driving the 12+1 model, absolutely nothing away from Seinäjoki, no matter what these facts and explanations would say, but 12+1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u127	Mr President! I think it was very good that Mr Strand's speech brought up the fact that we have smart top experts in health care and special care, and they are able to agree on these within the different areas. So here's a message for the Vases, here's a message for the Grounders. Within the Erva area the matter must be settled, and that is how we can ensure that Vaasa Central Hospital will continue to be a strong specialist in special medical care. But I would also like to ask the Minister the question raised by Mr Strand: I am sure that nothing will happen to the Vaasa Central Hospital, which would prevent the energy cluster from developing. Mr President, let me ask you a second time: it is true that Vaasa Central Hospital will continue to be able to serve a very international, globally competitive Vaasa with a large number of immigrants and different cultures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u128	One more response, Mr Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u129	Mr President! It's nice to hear these answers then. In global competition, we cannot content ourselves with the fact that everything is now at about this level, but we always have to move on to the full, to the full. It is clear that if these hospitals are divided into different statuses, there is some meaning in the longer term, and if not, then why can it not be added to it? Why can't we just add it to it? We have not yet received an answer. Why can't we add Vaasa Central Hospital to that list? Then I'm sure everyone will be happy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u130	Mr President! Even under the current legislation, the customer is not entitled to choose how to treat him or her — you can choose whether to treat him or not. In this respect, this freedom of choice and freedom of choice, which will extend throughout this whole social and health care reform to all and as far as possible to the whole of social and health care, is an extremely important and major reform of our entire system. Things have been handled well and exemplaryly at Vaasa Central Hospital. For example, cancer treatments in their own erva area or treatment of eating disorders at Vaasa Central Hospital are quite exemplary and first-class. The government has indeed shown its responsibility and concern about this, that, if there is a need, this initiative agreed by the government groups is also included in this health care law, i.e., if this requires action, they will be taken without delay and immediately. I agree with Mr Kurvise and Mr Strand that we must now put gas in place and take action without delay also to find out about the University Hospital of Western Finland, so that the medical districts have the best possible knowledge of their position in the future and of the type of measures to be taken to ensure the highest quality of specialised medical care in a global and growing international environment also on the coast. Thank you, Minister Rehula, for the excellent report on this reform of the Health Care Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u131	Mr President! I am not familiar with the activities of Vaasa Hospital myself, but I live in the same erva area, and can of course say that Turku University Hospital is a state-of-the-art hospital. This is a good theme for me, a debate on the need for cooperation between the regions and, on the other hand, on the borders of the provinces in particular. TYKS Loimaa is right here on the border between Turku and Satakunta, and I am not personally satisfied with how the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi currently responds to the challenges that they face when there are areas that reach more than 100 kilometres to Turku and it is too far for an ambulance. On the other hand, better cooperation could be developed, at least 24/7, as far as I am concerned, on call from primary health care. In other words, on the borders of the provinces, the regions and the regions should cooperate in such a way as to prevent the province from becoming a curse on this border area, areas where access to services is not good. However, here on the coast, where the economy really is rising, as in Vaasa everywhere, the countryside is completely inhabited. Of course, these people are also entitled to good health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u132	And to the minister for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u133	Mr President! There have been several requests for reasons for this solution, both today and in the previous debate on a similar subject. They can be found in a government proposal setting out the criteria on the basis of which hospitals have been designated in that law. You'll find those arguments there. There are several times here today, too, that there is no justification. We'll find them. On the other hand, let us guard against a situation in which the hospital network in Finland would be built, for example, on the basis of the power of political parties or membership books — when talking about the patient safety of people, when we talk about it — so that the hospitals we have are as high as possible in all parts of Finland. Similarly: I hope that the confrontation between different hospitals would be as limited as possible, because the circumstances in different parts of Finland are quite different. It's very different. In this role, in which I assume responsibility, I am very concerned that equality guaranteed by the Constitution is to be achieved throughout the country — the rights under Article 19 are to be safeguarded and the linguistic rights of the Constitution are to be safeguarded — Both Finnish and Swedish in Ostrobothnia. That is the first thing about this task: for example, there is no situation in transport where there is officially an on-call service but in practice it does not exist, or it is managed by some temporary arrangement, and people die from the fact that it is too long to go there for real help. The quote, "I really hope we move on to the fullest." I hope so, too. One of the central points is that cooperation in the erva region, in the future in the cooperation area, can be confidential and division of labour can be done. The less we need to intervene at national level, the better the situation will be in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u134	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The case was put on the table at the plenary session on 18 May 2017 at which it was removed from the agenda on 23 May 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u135	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of 7. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 7/2017 vp, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the Convention and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u136	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u137	Mr President! This bill has been launched by contacting a disabled person. I received an e-mail from a young person who was very willing and enthusiastic about working, but felt that our current system would not allow him to do so. He had received the papers and routes that he was permanently capable of part-time work and, against this estimate, he was also entitled to pay subsidies. The problem was that the wage subsidy was granted for such a short period of time that the adjustment measures that the employer had to take in order to be able to work in the workplace constituted too great a barrier for the employer to leave them for such a short period of time when there was no certainty that part-time pay support would be in use after some time. We have a huge number of people in Finland who would like to work, who would be able to work and who would be rich in our jobs, in our labour market, if they were given the opportunity. Often it is a matter of either being able to work only partially or requiring adjustments from a workplace that the majority of employees do not need. That is why these people are always left in search after the other when they compete for second place. Our labour market is also characterised by the fact that, in most cases, the entry route to the labour market takes place through a rather fragmented working life. Young people go to temporary work companies first, travel from one company to another, and then somewhere they get both their own skills and their job description so well together that the job becomes permanent. In practice, these people who are able to work part-time and need adaptation measures are closed down. They will not be able to work one day there and perhaps two days elsewhere, but their journey to work must take place through a more long - term employment relationship. Some of these partially capable people would need this pay subsidy, albeit for a long time, but not permanently. They might well also work in an open labour market without pay subsidies in the future, once the adjustment measures have been taken. While some have no realistic chance of ever ending up in an open labour market, this does not mean that these people themselves and Finnish society still do not benefit from being able to work in the intermediate labour market with a pay subsidy. In this bill I do not propose permanent wage support, even if it is a person who is permanently capable of part-time work, because the present world is changing so quickly that permanent is a dangerous and unwise word. However, it makes sense that the period of compensation for the employer is longer than it is under the current system. In Finnish society, one of the causes of both grief and joy is that we value work. We appreciate the work from which our wealth is largely derived, where our well-being is built, but we also appreciate it in such a way that it is often difficult for people to gain appreciation and find their place other than through working life. As long as work in Finnish society is not only a prerequisite for livelihood but also for inclusion for a lot of people, so long we should be able to find systems that guarantee access to the labour market for all those who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u138	Mr President! I have listened, and now I am commenting on Mr Kontula's speech, because I think that the employment of those who are able to work part-time is very important, and that is also a mismanaged issue at the moment, which means that no adequate measures have been taken. The payment of the increased wage subsidy is one way of doing this, and the representative is well-founded in his initiative, so I will not repeat what he has said. We have many other means to use, and I would like to highlight one of them here. Another week, or two weeks ago, there was an accessibility week, and it is therefore good to remind people about ensuring accessibility as a means of enabling people who are able to work part-time. Unfortunately, support for accessibility is not very high on the agenda of this government, for example, the proposals to dismantle accessibility standards in buildings. Now as the latest issue, as part of the reform of the regional administration and growth services, the Government has decided to abolish the support for the organisation of working conditions, the so-called adaptation aid. Adaptation means the organisation of working conditions using, for example, aids to enable the disabled person to study or work. According to the Non-Discrimination Act adopted in 2014, the authority, education organiser or employer must make reasonable adjustments so that the disabled person can receive equal training with others or continue to work. These adaptations have been implemented in Finnish legislation in accordance with the UN CRPD and the Labour Discrimination Directive. Failure to adapt results in the exclusion of people capable of working. It is inhumane and a waste of human resources for society. This support for the organisation of working conditions is paid to the employer in order to make it possible to employ a disabled person or a person capable of part-time work possible. The Government’s argument for withdrawing this aid is that it has not been used much. This seems to me to be a rather poor argument, given that we should rather consider why it has not been used. Apparently one of the key reasons for this is that employers have not known about this support. However, there is a great need for this support when working life changes, which means that we need to correct attitudes in this regard. Taking over the issue requires wide-ranging reflection, since at the moment adaptation is generally understood only as the purchase of mobility problems and aids to compensate for visual or hearing impairment, but we currently have about 7,000 people of working age who are suffering from memory disorders, and many of them are immediately retired when they are diagnosed. Changing attitudes and such so-called cognitive adjustment would allow them to extend their work even in several years. Let me give you an example. I have one acquaintance who contracted Alzheimer’s disease, and he almost immediately got a diagnosis when he retired — first on sick leave and then retired. The job did not understand the significance of these adjustments, but when he retired, he began to write a textbook. In other words, very small things could have made it possible for him to continue working. Mr President! To sum up, we have a lot to do to promote the employment of part-time workers. It is a pity that society does not understand how much human capital is left untapped. Representative Kontula's bill is good, but we need a lot more than that. Perhaps this change should now start in attitudes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-01-ps-62.u139	Mr President! In my speech just now, one important aspect was left out. Apart from, of course, the pay subsidy benefits people who can benefit from it, the working part-time workers, especially the disabled, are important attitude modulators through their own example. One big problem for us is that in many cases, where young people’s yo-fests, which are currently being prepared around Finland, are being asked questions about prospects and dream professions, the disabled young person is being informed very early that your place is in workshops and that you will never go to work. The fact that we are bringing people into the labour market prominently also gives young people self-confidence and examples of the fact that this path is possible and that they are also entitled to it in the same way as other people, that is to say, not only to shape the attitudes of these young people, especially those around them. On the other hand, I personally am rather concerned that one of the consequences of modernization in our society is a strict silo. We have quite a lot to talk about except that there are a lot of political bubbles, there are different categories of bubbles. These memory sick or old people live somewhere in their own world, and then, on the other hand, families with children have their own world, and often people with disabilities are separated from the rest of society to their own kinkers and their own activities, and that is not good development. We should already have so much wealth and prosperity that we can cut it off and give people a chance to get used to each other again, even when we are a little different.
