ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u1	The third item in the order of business is the election of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland. I note that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the following representatives as members and alternates of the delegation:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u3	Mr President! School bullying and bullying, you can say, affects both the smallest children and us adults from time to time. One might say that bullying is a theme that has been a theme for years. On the other hand, you may ask whether we can always ensure that we talk about bullying and do not forget what we do to ensure zero tolerance of bullying. Together with the representatives, we have taken a legislative initiative aimed at achieving zero tolerance for bullying at school. There have also been major changes in the environment of our children and young people, including social media, which has brought a completely new platform for bullying situations. At the moment, there is a situation where more bullying is taking place online. The legislation should therefore also increase the competence of teaching staff to address bullying in new ways. For example, school staff may have received information about bullying on the Internet or in various electronic communications services, but at present they do not have any means to intervene. With this initiative, which we have now taken, we want to give teachers and principals the right to intervene also on the Internet. In addition, we have another grey area, which has come up several times. On the way to school, outside the school area, there is also a great deal of bullying, and today, as the school trips lengthen, there may be more and more bullying situations. We have a situation where school staff are currently unable to intervene in bullying situations on their way to school. This is a clear lack of legislation which should be corrected as quickly as possible. Teachers or principals should have the right to intervene in bullying on school trips. Bullying on the way to school is all the more important because even children know when an adult can intervene and when an adult cannot intervene. In this context, I would also like to thank Mr Grahn-Laasonen for the fact that a working group has been set up at the Ministry of Education and Culture to explore ways of preventing and tackling bullying and also to promote peace in work. The task force’s mandate is from early childhood education to pre- and basic education and secondary education. I hope that, in connection with this work, the proposals we have put forward in the Basic Education Act will be incorporated into the working group's memorandum and we will finally be able to put an end to these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u4	Mr President! This is certainly an issue that we all feel is important, and certainly everyone believes that we need more instruments, new means, to tackle the bullying of a large number of children, families, parents and all of us. It is quite clear that at the moment there are not enough instruments to tackle bullying in schools, because bullying is still happening, and everyone certainly has their own kind of stories to tell. In this legislative initiative, we have raised two areas where we believe that the law could provide better tools for schools. Teachers themselves, often mentioned, also have the hope that they will be able to do more when cases of bullying become known. And it is also important that we send a message that bullying at school is not tolerated or accepted in any context and always, if there are cases of bullying, violence or harassment, it will be interfered with. In this bill we have raised two shortcomings that Mrs Lauslahti said: First of all, we have raised the point that bullying must also be tackled during the school journey, even when it takes place outside the school area, and such a case comes to the attention of the teacher or the school principal. This must be addressed, and this is a shortcoming in the current legislation. The second instance that we have raised is that of a changed world. Children and young people are increasingly away from electronic devices, using the Internet and digital environments every day, and even more unpleasant mild phenomena, such as bullying, have passed on to the Internet. That is why we propose that legislation should increase the competence of teaching staff to tackle bullying, even when this is done in these new ways, such as on-line or on-line services. So with this initiative we want to give teachers and principals a better chance of tackling bullying on the way to school and on the Internet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u5	Mr President! Of course, this bill is important. Of course, whenever one wants to interfere with bullying, we all greet it with joy. When I was a Minister of Education from outside, I implemented a government programme with such a wide-ranging package of work peace, which was also accompanied by an assessment of this bullying during school trips, and it was then, on the basis of an expert consultation, that it was difficult to bring it up to the level of the law. That bullying is, in a way, limited to the immediate environment of the school, and it can be thought that there the teacher and principal will also have practically the opportunity to intervene or evaluate it. I do not think it is bad in itself for this matter to be re-evaluated, but of course it is a question of the relationship between the exercise of power and control and responsibility: what does it mean in practice if it is extended to the principal and the teachers, who, of course, have no chance of dealing with or evaluating this bullying at school? I do not have time for this social media, bullying on the Internet, but it is, of course, something that is also important, and I am sure that the good Members of this House will now send a message to the Minister for Education, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u6	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson, good thinking. And here it would be good to emphasise that this is not about creating obligations but about the rights to intervene. The problem today is that there is no right whatsoever to intervene in those situations. And it's up to all of us to stop bullying. It's ours, you can say, the people around the kids, you can say, friends, it's our parents' business. There is a school-home co-operation like this really the cornerstone of how you can combine, you can say, the tormented parents and the bully's parents. It's gonna need some kind of coordination point. We have student care in schools, and in that respect it can be said that schools have a good place to do it. But the aim of this bill is not to increase anyone's obligations but to increase the right to intervene in bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u7	Madam President! I myself agree with the previous speaker that we do not believe that there should be very great problems in raising this issue to the level of the law, as proposed in this initiative. I personally appreciate Mr Gustafsson's views. But when it comes to justice, it must not be confused with any kind of responsibility, that is, if the teachers had not intervened and were to be held responsible, and that right should not be confused with obligations, and that is why we have narrowed down and identified this very issue, which Mr Gustafsson raised. The second thing we need to recognise is that this language on the Internet and in social media is quite hard and aggressive, which, among other things, Mrs President-in-Office intervened in the opening of the Finlandia House. That's why we have money added to the Internet police, and so far away that this is being addressed. As far as I am concerned, if curses and insolences are on the other side of the face, it is exactly the same as if it is done on the Internet, and it must be addressed, whether it be a student, a young person or an adult. That good manners must be used everywhere. From this point of view, I hope that this bill will actually lead to that,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u8	Mr President! Here again, there is a good example of something that shows that there are quite a few things that are not government and opposition, but common issues. This is another one. I believe, or I am quite sure, that there is a common will in this Chamber to deal with this issue, to deal with this type of matter. I myself am still a little careful not to take a stand on this particular initiative — whether this is the right way to deal with bullying. A few times when the committee has dealt with matters very thoroughly, it has only been possible to see whether it is working for sure and whether it is completely complete. In any case, I think it is a very good opening, very welcome, with a positive position, of course, in principle, for all the contributions to this. We also have an opening in committee this spring, in fact immediately, on the initiative taken in previous Parliaments, which also concerns school bullying. There were over 100 signatures. So, on many fronts, we're on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u10	Madam President! This bill is a continuum for the bill of Finnish MP Tiina Elovaara, where she also presents various possibilities for municipalities to intervene in school bullying. I would therefore now like to see this initiative taken by Tiina Elovaara also taken up in the committee. It has over 100 signatures and its message is very, very important and significant. Bullying at school, bullying at work, all kinds of bullying — we parents try to teach our children not to be bullied, yet we parents in our own workplaces also do bullying — has far-reaching meanings. It causes mental health problems for the rest of your life and difficulties finding your own place in society, and that is where we have to work. For young people, for example, cutting is something that is not so much referred to, but studies show that it has increased enormously, and one of the reasons is also the feeling of inequality and perhaps loneliness. We also need to find ways to get young people to tell us about these bullying practices that the booth is being taken as early as possible from those to whom they speak. I've asked my own children who they'll tell if there's anything to worry about. It's not a teacher, it's not a nurse. It's another guy. In other words, these forms of dialogue must then be opened up, revealing the cases. It is easy to act anonymously on the Internet, and that world is infinitely cruel. The word is sharp, and when you use it skillfully, it causes wounds for the rest of your life. Years ago, I myself have interfered in school bullying in the school yard, where the boy bullied the girl with a gross appointment, but I almost got to the point where I had to go. In other words, it takes courage for both adults and children to intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u11	Mr President! Bullying is a serious matter and we cannot accept it under any circumstances. In this connection, too, as Mrs Juvonen has already pointed out very well, our representative Tiina Elovaara's initiative on bullying in school. Mr Elovaara's bill, which indeed received the signatures of more than 100 MPs, is intended to give a better opportunity to intervene and to stop bullying. Representative Elovaara's bill contains an addendum to Section 6 of the Basic Education Act. This increase would allow municipalities to intervene more effectively and fairly in serious bullying cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u12	Mr President! The headmaster of Sylvä school, Andersson, received an observation that he intervened in bullying on his way to school. "The educational field is regulated by law by those who don't know anything about school life." This government must now respond to the distress of school life, because bullying is such a serious matter. The school also has to live in time, and this online bullying is almost more wounding than face-to-face bullying, because it stays on the Internet forever and can be distributed around Finland, that audience is bigger for it. This is a very good initiative. I am in favour of tackling bullying on the way to school. I am in favour of tackling cyber bullying. But this is something that we should certainly not be content with yet. Now that we return in the spring, we need to introduce a lot more tools, such as that the principal could give detention, and then this tool to the municipalities so that they can get the backbone to the fact that the bullied is not the one who has to change schools, but the bully. If we do not intervene in these matters and do enough work here, then power will rest with the tempter. An adult must be the one who creates the rules of the game, and we must ensure that adults, principals, have the tools to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u13	Madam Speaker! In the school world, there is a need for common sense in Finland. We've got to get the Distractive Students under control. Schools need to be at peace. For example, the growing number of children from immigrant backgrounds in schools can contribute much to these disturbances. However, these disorderly students, both members of the general population and those from immigrant backgrounds, are not bad. They're just kids who need boundaries. If there are no limits at school, I will ask where Finnish society is going. For example, phones should be taken away from children in classes, and so on. Teachers' rights to order must therefore be safeguarded. Otherwise, there will be an even more pussy generation after a generation of pussies. A teacher can't live in that world of work with any fear that if he touches a child on his shoulder and asks him to leave the class, then he'll be on the next case. So, at least I'm calling for that kind of common sense. This initiative, which is good too, is pointless if there is really no way to discipline those children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u14	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Lauslahti for this important initiative. Unfortunately, bullying at school is still a serious phenomenon. And, for example, in Helsinki — when looking for youth work and then reaching those children and young people who are unable to attend school for one reason or another — it has been found that a large proportion of these cases are specifically about being bullied at school. And likewise in such a case, when a young person is unable to apply for secondary education, so time and again among these social reasons that make studying difficult, is precisely bullying at school. That it can be very traumatic, and even if it has been for years, it may actually prevent society from operating and succeeding, as Mrs Juvonen well pointed out. And in that sense, I very much support the clarification of this representative. Actions put forward by the Lauslahti initiative. Similarly, cyber bullying and, for example, bullying with mobile phones are new phenomena that have come to us as a result of technological development. Of course, we must examine whether our teachers and student care staff will then have sufficient tools to tackle bullying. But on this speech by Mr Tavio: he said that the troublemakers must be contained, and so on. On the other hand, it must be remembered that the most important thing is to ensure that we have small enough teaching groups in schools, that teachers have the resources to detect the bullying or discrimination that can occur in classes. If we have too many teaching groups, the teacher’s time is simply not enough. That is the most important thing, as is the fact that this ongoing social reform will ensure that the resources for student care are sufficient and that the means are available to ensure that schools, for example, have sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u15	Madam President! Representative Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto raised good themes. That was a while ago when I was listening to the night radio. There was a call from an elderly person like this, and I would like to highlight once again the theme of how far - reaching, life - giving wounds are left by bullying. Bullying may be too harsh to say that it is a crime against humanity, but it is a severe blow to humanity, even as an elderly person, as he was, his first theme being that because I have been bullied, life has gone badly and has become a lot of failures and has not had that self-confidence to build up its own life and has become abuse of drugs and has also, in a way, been involved in relationships where even violence has occurred. So those bullying cases are infinitely invulnerable. Yes, here we must put all our strength together and then bring all these initiatives together — Tiina Elovaara, Sanna Lauslahti, whoever has done them over the years — and do something about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u16	Mr President! That's right, that's why. This is a fine subject in itself, because we have this Tillsammans, as a 100-year theme, together, and here is a good example of how we are all united by bullying across government-opposition limits. And as pointed out in these previous speeches, when bullying goes far enough so that it can be said that no one has intervened or wanted to or could not or has not known the situation, in these extreme bullying situations it follows there all the way to adulthood. And it comes in nightmares and then it comes out as mental health problems. That in that respect we are talking about traces that appear there in our memories then for the rest of our lives. In that regard, this is probably a place where we should find such good, new approaches to the prevention of bullying during this term of government or during this period. From the point of view of student care — Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto quite properly raised — we must have sufficient resources, and their resources must be close to those children and young people, they cannot be taken far. And in that respect, it is good that a policy has now been drawn up to ensure that the resources of our student services remain in the schools and are not taken far to the provinces. At the same time, there is also a place of reflection that we must finally resolve: the flow of information. At the moment, we have a situation where information is more protected than our children and young people, and I hope that at last we will be able to move forward with that information between professionals and then properly intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u17	Madam President! Good speeches. It is also important to see now that teacher training must provide better opportunities for early intervention, i.e. this path must start with the reform of teacher education. What's important is the sensitive observation in these cases of bullying. When this becomes so, could you say that bullying has come a long way, it also means that the teacher’s physical integrity is threatened? In other words, it must also be seen that — if you want to say that you have to be disciplined — then, in a way, you are already quite far along: the school's own authority and the teachers' own authority have been broken, and these situations are getting worse. The further the bullying cases have gone, the more certain it is that there is already a lot of interference in that learning environment, which means that this early intervention is important. And I certainly do not rule out this possibility that this is also being exported outside the school area, but it always threatens the teacher.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u18	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Mrs Lauslahti for this initiative and colleagues for their encouraging contributions — at least not because of the political will that seems to be the case, but to solve this problem. There has been much talk of cyber bullying and it has brought a whole new dimension to school bullying in such a way that there is no escape from online bullying. Even at home was safe and peaceful, or, for example, if the bully was in detention every day for 15 minutes, he got away just as he did in my own case. But when the online is that child’s social life today as a rule, if you stick those machines at home in order to be at peace, then you’re completely alone, you’re completely outside that community. Fortunately, the situation in Finland is not as bad as in Poland, for example. Finland has not seen a suicide wave of children who have been tortured online as in Poland some year ago, but there is nothing to prevent it — if this online bullying gets worse — that would protect the children of Finland from it before we control this phenomenon. These experiences of school life carry all their lives and can indeed end it short. When American school shooters have been studied, the main factor that unites them has been that they have been bullied at school, and the hatred that has been poured into them has since erupted in violence, shooting at that school. In any case, I am hopeful because political decision-makers no longer underestimate school bullying. It was only 15 years ago when, for example, in the Espoo Council, when school bullying was discussed, a lot of council members underestimated it and said that there is no bullying in Espoo schools and that you can stand next to a teacher during recess if you are scared. And such speeches were made by delegates from a teacher’s background. Fortunately, for many years now, they have not needed to be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u19	Mr President! Much is being discussed about the sustainability gap in the economy. Somehow I think it makes it cold that, in fact, one of the biggest sustainability deficits in Finland is what we do to each other. One of the things we do to each other is what we allow to be done in Finnish primary schools. About 7 per cent of Finnish comprehensive school pupils are bullied every day, and in that respect I do not sign that Finland thinks that this bullying is being actively tackled. If bullying were actively addressed, we would have a situation where we would have a genuinely perfect zero tolerance for whether Finnish children are being bullied at school. And these words, I hope, remained in your minds. During the last term of government, I was allowed two years to serve in this important teaching minister role, and at the beginning of that period I thought that I would take this bullying as a theme that we are now doing a complete zero tolerance programme in Finland. But you know, even in such a task, it didn't just happen by clicking a finger, because we have this bullying left behind in the structures. There is a great deal of indifference in the structures of this society that we put the ball around the next one. And yet I got the result of a hard effort — especially when I was able to prove that there is, for example, this sort of complete zero tolerance program in Canada, and there is no structure bullying and there is no this daily bullying experience that children would report... And since there are such examples in the world that you can really talk about zero tolerance, it requires much more from this school community than we have even required from the school community. That is why I am delighted to welcome all these initiatives, as well as the initiatives taken by the other representatives of Lauslahti and others, and to say that I myself have put such a larger group on the table, because I noticed that as an individual minister I am not able to solve this problem but to solve it. We had a large working group that thought about the need for and support for special support from the point of view that what we would do better,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would remind you that the meeting of the large committee is about to begin, but I will give Mrs Parviainen the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-10-ps-5.u21	Madam Speaker! It is great that we are now discussing bullying at school, and this is something that I am sure we must take seriously, even though we already have a variety of models in Finland that have brought this issue forward. It must always be remembered that the work must be planned in the schools there. It is not enough simply to register for the use of a model, but it is absolutely essential to be systematic and to commit adults throughout the work community to this fight against bullying. A lot of things that have happened in leisure time also move into school, which means that they affect school work. Bullying in hobbies moves and shows up in schools, and yes, we have to have the opportunity in schools to take these into consideration as well. It is sad that, over the years, these situations have come about, that the school people are, in a way, hand-tied, that these things can be dealt with. Bullying stops and it becomes possible to end as the common responsibility for this is extended.
