ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u2	Thank you, Speaker! — The Government’s proposal for a law on Hansel Oy in the referral debate relates to the comprehensive regional and social reform currently under discussion in Parliament. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to amend the law on a limited liability company named Hansel Oy so that the services of Hansel Oy can be used in the future by the provinces and contracting entities of the provinces. This bill must be supported in view of the fact that the tasks of the public sector are being delegated to the provinces as a result of the regional and social reform. However, in this context, President, when it comes to public procurement, I would like to make a few comments on the issue of competition. I would stress that when awarding contracts, the price-quality ratio should be considered as the basis for competitive tendering. More attention should be paid to quality criteria, such as the environment and social impact. Only price-based competitive tendering should be carried out in limited cases and even then for well-founded reasons. In addition, President-in-Office, we should think all the more about how public procurement can support, for example, innovation or the development of the regional economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u3	Mr President! This change in Hansel's legislation is not here for any other reason than that we are about to undergo a social and regional reform that needs this kind of reform, and it is understandable that there is such a larger source of supply that provides assistance, assists in the procurement process and can also be in practice produced. However, because of these reforms, there is a bigger question here: fortunately, the government changed its position and did not set up this single national company that would have managed all the procurements in all the provinces, which would have been quite disastrous for all small entrepreneurs around Finland if one company in Finland had practically done everything. Now the fact that the provinces can use Hansel is a better version of this, but there is another story. It is that all the acquisitions that the provinces are now going to make are currently acquisitions of municipalities and joint municipal boards, that is to say, all the social welfare know-how that we are talking about here is existing know-how in municipal procurement, through which municipalities, hospital districts and other joint municipal authorities have made these acquisitions. That is why, in the context of this legislative process, I think it is important that we also discuss the view that municipal procurement is the second version that these future provinces can use, because there is already all the knowledge that is needed in relation to these procurements. That is why I would not like to think that Hansel is the only one, so that in this respect the provinces would not be driven solely to state-style institutions and to state authorities and state decision-making. So municipal procurement has to be another option.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u4	Mr President! Mr Paatero described well above that this national procurement unit was in the original version of the Regional Law, but fortunately it was abandoned. However, Hansel is now being made such a national contracting entity in the provinces, alongside the fact that we have provincial purchasing units. We really need to make sure that it does not happen, however, that we start concentrating our purchases on Hansel and then, what we have feared here, that small regional entrepreneurs and businesses will no longer be able to participate when these acquisitions become so huge. I would therefore understand that if Hansel wants to use these in this case, for example, for some of the large IT acquisitions or similar, where it is seen that the interests of many provinces are combined, then this aspect may be worthy of support. But here we really need to be careful not to bring in, as it were, this large national purchasing unit in another form, which, in a way, was already in a position to be rejected at the time when the provincial law was being drafted. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it has already become clear from the hearings that when we, in the reform of the procurement law, warned on the part of the opposition that the 5% in-house supply limit will prove problematic and will be difficult, leading to inappropriate commas, this is now absolutely true when regional procurement is started. It is already doing this kind of inappropriate chopping due to the fact that this in-house supply limit of 5% is being met. From the opposition many times and in various protests we pointed out that once the directive had made it possible to reach the 20% threshold, then we had to go and make legislation that already demonstrates its problem at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u5	Mr President! Like Mrs Tuppurainen, I would stress that the law should require Hansel to develop the ecological and social sustainability of public procurement and to lead the way in sustainable procurement. I would also like to remind you of the government's objective that 5% of all public procurement should be so-called innovative procurement. When we talk about such a huge amount of money, that means that public power can therefore really be a pioneer in innovation. In fact, there is currently a lack of someone in Finland who promotes sustainable procurement, Sweden has many levels of government. Hansel could play such a role in Finland if it was guided in that direction by this law. Hansel has already had an interest in sustainable procurement. An example of this is the more responsible electronics for the state project carried out together with Finnwatch, so this thinking is not entirely foreign there either. As Mrs Essayah said, the overall reform of the procurement law did not introduce this social clause as binding, and it is therefore now justified to use other means to achieve the actual objectives of this procurement directive: "Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that economic operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations applicable to the performance of contracts." In other words, there are shortcomings in the procurement law which could now be perfectly remedied by this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u6	Mr President! The basic government proposal is a good one, and I hope that this will still be discussed in the committees, as Mr Paatero said here that he would get a vision of the provinces and also of the municipal procurement and these. Mr Tuppurainen said that the procurement law, which came into force from the beginning of this year, should take more account of employment, climate and then also innovative measures, as the Harakka has said here. This is what is really up to our municipalities at the moment, the public operators, the way in which we bring up these issues in these purchasing companies, how we are going to change in our own way of purchasing in public bodies in the municipalities. In other words, once we have gone through the municipal elections, I would see that we have quite a lot to train, that we will get these contracting entities out of it simply because we only have the euro in which the procurement is made. We can also go on to make presentations, procurements that favour local services, local production and local entrepreneurship, and we must also look after this carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u7	Mr President! I share the concern of Mr Paatero and Mr Essayah. Indeed, it is absolutely essential that we do not now make such centralised arrangements as to make them an obstacle to the rational functioning of the provinces. This original plan is, after all, a huge Gosplan idea that all purchases in the provinces, which are in the billions category, will be brought centrally from one point to the next. Everyone knows what it means then to be able to take into account the regional needs and experience-based desires to determine what is ordered, so this must be based on the fact that Hansel's use is of an enabling nature, not mandatory. I also share the experiential concern expressed by Mrs Essaya about what this 5% rule of in-house activity means. It has put on a new straitjacket, which is now going to be targeted at regional decision-making in the future, and is threatening a sensible action that would allow the local work to be considered effective and ensure that existing practices in the field of cooperation between public sector entities continue to be possible. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been no proper justification for why this 20 % limit allowed by the European Union was imported to 5 %. What was the reason why this was done? Finally, I would like to join Mrs Tuppurainen in highlighting the aspect of Hansel's activities otherwise. Yes, this ecological thinking is today, and it is important that these aspects of Hansel's activities are actively taken into account and that the state plays a leading role in this for the entire business community.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u8	Mr President! Again, we are dealing with one legislative proposal on social and regional reform, and, of course, the whole of this package is on the edge of a knife, how we can move forward in this time frame. The addition of regional contracting entities to Hansel’s customers can in itself bring significant benefits and this proposal is, in principle, appropriate in the sense that such centralisation can lead to cost savings, improve the quality of procurement and also minimise administrative costs. But I share the concern expressed by a number of Members here, and I particularly draw attention to the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to be involved in these tenders. This is a point which I think is particularly worthy of considering in the committee's deliberations as to how to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to participate in the tenders for these joint procurements in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u9	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on the referral of the matter to committee, and it is good to raise these issues when the future of the provinces is now being considered through this contracting entity. A few speeches have raised the issue of purchasing skills, and quite often in these matters it is also a question of being able to compete in the right way, not just with money, with price, but also with quality. It is its own field of expertise, and it certainly needs to be strengthened both at local, regional and national level. There are certain things in which it is good to go into larger entities, such as ict systems. At this point in time when new ones are being created, it is good to make systems so that they communicate with others and no longer be in a situation where every unit or every municipality, or necessarily even every province, has a system of their own, but that they have a smooth conversation with each other. But then, as Mr Räsänen pointed out, small and medium-sized enterprises: it is a point of its own, which must be borne in mind very carefully that we do not, on the one hand, make a system in which the tendering procedure operates only on large terms, but on the other hand we must have the possibility of involving small and medium-sized enterprises, local operators, but, of course, this also applies to products. When, for example, central kitchens and food supplies are planned, it makes sense not to bring food from far away but to make use of production close to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u10	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u11	Mr President! It is a pity that the Minister is not here to present this bill which is now coming to us in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and which is linked to this reform of social welfare and health care. In other words, 'the cost of health services equivalent to those provided in another country under the Act on the freedom of choice of the customer in social and health care would be reimbursed without other conditions' — this is what the text says. In practice, this is the case with the cross-border application of services from other countries in the EU, the services applied for and the change in their reimbursement practice, and this is now linked to this reform of social legislation. The question is, of course, that, when this law on social security is already complicated, it has now become a proposal which, in its entirety, is still problematic and incomplete in many respects. So this law would then continue to apply only to health services. Then the purpose of this is to compensate Finnish citizens for the costs of health services provided abroad for health services referred to in Article 7a of the Health Care Act, i.e. those covered by that range of services. The county would then be responsible for the cost, i.e. the invoice will be paid by the province. Well, the problem now relates to the fact that it is not currently known what these health services are in Section 7a of the Health Care Act, which is the range of services. It's not registered. This has been addressed in the consultation, including HUS, and The HUS opinion states that such a special service selection council has dealt with these issues from these ranges of services and so far has dealt with four types of treatment, three of which it considered justified. This opinion states that only knee-to-knee surgical treatment is not part of the Finnish range of services, i.e. on this basis all other possible and impossible treatments would be covered by this obligation, and this opinion states that, in reality, from the point of view of the work of this service selection council, there are no real, realistic possibilities to determine the range of services to the extent that it would then be sufficient to limit those treatments abroad so that there is not just any nonsense to offer and then the bill falls to the province afterwards. In other words, the question goes hand in hand with the fact that we know in advance which services can be applied for abroad and on what basis will be paid for it and what kind of bills are to be expected in the regions. The law cannot be passed in such a way that it would be done just like this and then afterwards looked at what is part of this range of services. So, of course, the patient needs to know in advance whether it is paid or not. This is the big question. The second question then relates to the fact that Kela's officials are now being placed on a rather large task: they should start assessing which treatment needs to be replaced and at what price. Of course, if you look at the patient and the patient’s legal security, I would be horrified if Kela’s official had the treatment now being replaced or not. Until now, it has been carried out by a doctor and experts to assess which treatment is necessary and can be obtained there, and then it has become compensation. This now has a very strong connection with this social welfare reform in that this proposal does not correspond to how this kind of regional variation in direct choice in social services and then also in the services provided by these future customer vouchers affects the way in which a resident of a province is allowed to choose services abroad, i.e. whether, in any event, the services chosen abroad will also become a function of a province or whether it is intended that the kingdom has uniform practices for this purpose. That is not the answer to this law. Furthermore, this does not answer how the compensation paid to the social welfare and health centres operating in these companies, i.e. in practice, is taken into account if the customer uses cross-border services and then the province replaces them. Here comes this kind of round also, which should of course be taken into account, because otherwise they will get in a way in vain from the province for that money. So, all in all, the question is these compensations, these service selections, the definition of this in advance, it is inadequate in this law, and then the question is how the skills and resources of Kela will be sufficient to carry out such a task in such a way that the legal security of the citizens is ensured. Mr President! This will now come to us in committee, and we will start hearings on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u12	Mr President! I myself would have liked the Minister here to answer the questions, because, just as Mr Haatainen said, there are quite a lot of open questions and assessments in this proposal which would do well to ensure where they are based. This bill also relates to the social welfare reform and in particular to the freedom of choice section, which now extends this freedom of choice and also strengthens cross-border health care in a two-way manner, and so that people living in Finland can apply for certain services abroad so that those living abroad can then use health services more easily in Finland. It has been estimated here that this proposal would increase costs, which should also be taken into account, i.e. net expenditure by 2022 per year, by EUR 8.6 million in 2019. Then it has been estimated that this euro-denominated increase in compensation for individuals could increase the willingness to travel to health, but it is not assumed that it will be very large. I would have liked to hear more about these estimates, as well as the fact that it is estimated here that the willingness of non-residents to apply for health services in Finland would not increase. When we have had quite a lot of discussion about health services for the so-called undocumented, for example, it would have been interesting to hear how this is expected to work in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u13	Mr President! As a citizen of a border region, I say that, in fact, such legislation has been expected for quite a long time. The fact that Sweden has been able to do so for 15 years has made it easier for Swedes, even if they were in a border region or between Finland and Norway again, to apply for treatment in Finland, if necessary, when it is nearer. Even now, within the framework of the current EU directive on patients and within the framework of the Nordic Council guidelines, we should already have that possibility, but in practice it has been very complicated and difficult. The Regional Administrative Agency has even banned the organisation of joint emergency services at the border between Finland and Sweden, two EU countries. I hope that this legislation will also help to make it easier for a person, in a time of need, to go to the nearest place physically, even if it is on the other side of the national border. The problem has often been that these neighbouring countries have for quite a long time had such a provincial system, much more than a hundred years. But now that Finland finally comes to it, it will be much easier to negotiate when the counterpart pair is similar. In Finland it will be a province, in Sweden it is a county, in Norway it is a phylke. In other words, I hope that this will bring a lot of new opportunities, especially for these border regions in the north, and I hope that the movement will certainly be mutual, as has been speculated in previous speeches. It has been quite impossible for a small municipality to negotiate with the landmen of Norrbotten in Sweden, for example, whether people in the Tornio Valley could then apply for services in Finnish on the other side of the border, because there they may be closer than in the province’s central city of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u14	Mr President! I am also very sorry that the rapporteur's minister is not here. It seems that on the social and health side we have relatively few proposals here in Parliament, and I would like to see a similar minister there to answer the questions we have asked. Mr President! The proposal is in itself important and is in the right direction. It is possible to improve the position and equality of customers as a result of the increase in the level of compensation. On the other hand, the proposal involves the risk of deepening health inequalities when travelling to care abroad requires both financial and other capacities. It is therefore possible that the wealthier and more capable will bypass the domestic care queues with increasing support from taxpayers. In order to minimise the impact of the law in this respect, a well-functioning and high-quality social services at home must be secured. This is particularly difficult at a time when the government is pushing for social reform and freedom of choice without consulting experts. Expert criticism of social welfare reform has only intensified during the parliamentary process, for example. Not even an unrealistic timetable has been compromised, but, on the contrary, implementation will be speeded up by means of, for example, freedom of choice pilots and their carrot money. I remember that when the border law was drawn up in 2013, the assessment was that, in the light of European Union law and the case law of the European Court of Justice, the proposed compensation model is not entirely without problems, but it can be defended on the basis of the basic solutions of our national healthcare system. It should be noted that the patient directive does not require any particular service model in the country. It concerns only compensation for cross-border care and equality between the citizen and the cross-border service. In other words, the patient directive cannot justify the government's freedom of choice model. The more significant problems with the Government proposal relate to the determination of compensation. If compensation is paid for the same cost as treatment in Finland, what is it when, for example, the funding of direct service social services centres is mainly based on capitation? When the price of the service has not been determined, what compensation will be paid? The price should be transparent and up-to-date. Furthermore, the range of services in Section 7a of the Health Care Act is not known. For example, according to HUS’ opinion, the Service Selection Council has no realistic opportunity to define services in such a way as to restrict services in an appropriate way and to inform customers of this. It is essential that people know which services you can apply for, apply for and receive compensation. The criteria are at their origins, and on this basis, Kela's officials should make an assessment of which treatment is to be replaced and at what price. This is worrying in terms of the patient's legal security, especially when the costs have already been incurred. The Government's proposal also states that proper ex post payment of compensation to a person would require better productisation of health services and product prices in Finland. Port guarding is particularly needed on the special care side, where costs can rise to tens of thousands of euros. In the past, these decisions have mainly been taken in the hospital district, but in the future, Kela officials are deciding to pay compensation in cross-border situations. It is necessary that both regional businesses and Kela officials have uniform and detailed instructions and interpretations of where to base their decision as a gatekeeper. This requires a written definition of the range of services. The proposal therefore does not correspond to how the regional variation in direct choice of social services and services provided by the customer voucher affects how the local residents are allowed to choose services abroad. Are cross-border services defined by region? According to the Government's proposal on freedom of choice, the social welfare centre can be chosen in Finland, but it must be committed to a year. However, there is now no commitment model for cross-border services, but a free exchange of service providers. The proposal does not correspond to how the compensation paid to the social welfare centre is taken into account if the customer uses cross-border services. In Finland, direct selection is made and customer vouchers are available for social services, but cross-border services are only health services. However, when other countries of the European Union do not have a system similar to that planned in Finland, is it certain that the current situation will remain? If other social performances in Parliament do not move forward, what will happen to this performance? We have no answer to that. Why is the preparation of this proposal not linked to the preparation of the decomposition of multi-channel funding? In the SDP model, it is essential that the range of services is clearly defined and priced. Only then can the use of services be replaced cost-effectively and equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u15	Mr President! In this presentation, it seems that this has not been properly looked through in this hurry and in the social media. Of course, it is extremely important for us to know what the price tag for this proposal is. However, we should remember such sudden services, the outbreak of the appendix or the pregnancy — it is not very sudden, but in any case pregnancy is part of it — and infectious diseases, so that, in any case, treatment is provided in any country. It's very scary if Kela starts to decide on this matter primarily because Kela currently has terrible queues. For example, in sickness allowance in the direction of Seinäjoki, payments in April have not yet been made. That's quite a shortcoming. Then what worries me is that if the provinces have to pay for this, how will the provinces budget this if there is no information about that price? Is it a capitulation model? If so, what is the price of capitulation? Is it a service voucher model? If so, what is the price of a service voucher? Or is that the total amount of money you're paying? Where this would be a good thing is certainly in the north, in the area of Nordic cooperation. It has been attempted for many years there to put an end to the various barriers to borders, but without success. But Nordic cooperation and cooperation between the Nordic countries are so different, although not everyone is an EU country, that it might be worth trying this in some way, especially in the border region. There it could be a good thing. Then one thing that worries me here too is this commitment. If the Finnish citizen now wants to commit himself to Swiss treatment, German treatment or Spanish treatment, can he go there once a month for treatment and treatment, or
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u16	Mr President! Representative My corner raised the point of view of the people in the border area. I also think that, from their point of view, this proposal really makes access to services more flexible and also allows better services for those who live near the border cost-effectively — and, of course, for those citizens who want to invest in health tourism. But at the same time it must be noted that when people have to pay for travel expenses themselves, there must then also be room for it. In other words, for example, once a month abroad, in order to obtain treatment, a person must then also have the means to carry out the travel expenses in this respect, because they are certainly not covered here. However, this whole proposal raises the question of how Finnish health care will be able to maintain its good reputation, public confidence, competitiveness and a high level in the future. It is a particularly important issue now that the social and health services system is being reformed, that we have the kind of health care that is trusted and that is being used in such a way that, as it were, this quality issue will not put pressure on us to leave abroad to seek treatment. It would put citizens in a very unequal position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u17	Mr President! One more little thing like this, could you say, a comment that this whole, at least for my part, still bothers me. Now that the social welfare reform is being carried forward, I do not know whether the Finns have understood that the government is taking our social and health services to the European Union and the wider international market. This legislation will also contribute to this. If, for example, people are looking for services here in social centres or in Finland, they will also be able to apply for services more easily and flexibly in the European Union. At the same time, we export the market to the international market and the European Union's contract legislation will also guide the definition, content, funding and substitutability of our services. So I would now like to see a representative of the Finns who will tell us how they will react to this legislation in combination with social legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u18	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u19	Mr President! The Ship Recycling Regulation is an attempt to change the problems of ship dismantling from South-East Asia and Turkey more towards Europe, so that we can also overcome those problems, because the dismantling of these ships causes, for example, three disadvantages. Dangerous substances enter the environment, and there are also serious problems with these demolition work in terms of health and safety at work: disadvantages, injuries and even deaths. In addition, discharges of ship discharges also spread to the environment as diseases for people living there. These problems are precisely where they are being dismantled, namely in Bangladesh, Pakistan, India and Turkey. In addition to steel, harmful substances include asbestos, heavy metals, lead and mercury. This regulation to be brought here by the European Union will contribute to the fact that the dismantling of ships will then be carried out more here in the Member States of the European Union. In Finland, too, it is now being examined whether it could even be profitable here in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u20	Mr President! Mr Kosonen rightly explained the need for this regulation. In the background, I would also like to say that for decades shipowners have been circumventing international agreements and also national and EU legislation that prohibits the export of hazardous waste to developing countries, i.e. countries where there is no proper disposal capacity for hazardous waste. As far as ships are concerned, this has been circumvented in such a way that a ship is supposed to make such a normal freight journey to a developing country, such as Bangladesh, where it is then scrapped, often under quite shocking conditions. Poor workers dealing with asbestos and hazardous waste pesticides without any protective equipment and without any protection for the environment. It is a very good thing that, in itself, a time lag of many years, but nevertheless, we can at least take a step towards a more appropriate procedure in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u21	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u22	Mr President! We had a good debate on this when the Minister was here in that first debate. So it is almost ten years ago, the promise made by the Treaty of Lisbon, which came into force in 2009, that we will be able to get help at the worst moment when we ask for it or, on the other hand, we will be prepared to give it to another EU country when it is needed, with the thought at all possible. We have not been able to fulfil what we have promised in this agreement. It may have been brought up for the first time in concrete discussions on aid in the Swedish submarine hunt. Another example was after the events in Paris, when France first activated and used these solidarity and solidarity clauses and asked for assistance from other EU countries. We had to help through a slight detour, in a very good and dignified way. So now the law is being updated. Even in urgent situations, decisions have been taken by Parliament, and good solutions have been found, and this demonstrates that we have a good, broad consensus on foreign and security policy. One thing that has been specifically raised here is this obligation for the staff to take part in the duties in these situations. Of course, it is only voluntary for the Reservists, but this service obligation has had to be recorded in the law because we have certain key tasks that may not be found by volunteers, or if these few people refused to do so, then we would not be able to respond to that request for help. And if we had only moved on by the fact that only new... [The President knocks ] — President! I'll be right back. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u23	Mr President! Perhaps the most important change in substance that is being made here is that from now on the Defence Forces will have the opportunity to provide support to another country, to the European Union and, of course, to international organisations in the overall context of the principles defined by the Charter of the United Nations. In practice, it means that the Finnish Defence Forces can also take on international action based on the use of force from now on, when the international situation requires us to do so through the request for help or when it is possible to provide us with assistance through the international community. In other words, a major change in principle is that the Defence Forces can then act in a way that is already required by the European Union in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon and in which other Member States of the European Union have already acted at an earlier stage. Of course, the military defence of Finland is and will remain the most essential task of the Defence Forces tomorrow. Of course, cooperation with other authorities will continue to play a crucial role, as well as crisis management tasks. But giving this international aid outside the borders and receiving it within the borders is what is at stake in this case. Well, we know the basic principles of Finland's foreign policy, I am not going to repeat them any more, but I say that under no circumstances does Finland want to raise a weapon. Finland does not want to go to war. Of course, if our own defence is at stake, it will appear in the opposite light. Even on the basis of the principles of the UN Charter, Finland will, of course, have the opportunity to defend itself by all means at its disposal and also to receive international assistance to support its own activities. This broadens this basic philosophy so that from now on, in a way that is determined by a separate process, which also has its own legal act, Finland can also be involved outside its own borders in actions concerning the use of force. Understandably, this is a major change in principle. Of course, we want to remain out of conflict, that is the basic premise of Finland's national defence. No circumstance will, of course, change the starting point. We do not, of course, want to be involved in conflicts, but rather to remain outside them. It is equally clear that Finland cannot be a transit country for attacks against any other country, come or go in any direction. Therefore, such a general philosophy of stability policy is a pervasive principle in Finland's defence philosophy, and it goes all the way to the core principles of Finland's foreign policy. The fact that we do not want our region to be used for enmity with other countries is an extension of the natural philosophy of the matter that we ourselves want to remain outside the conflict, but then, of course, we must take into account the fact that situations may arise, very possible situations where this philosophy is not enough, but where there are changes in our immediate security environment, outside which Finland unfortunately cannot abide. That is why this revision of the legal base is also necessary in this respect, and it is therefore clear that although Finland itself wishes to remain out of conflict and our land is not used for hostilities against other countries, these principles cannot limit our own actions. They cannot limit our international cooperation in defence, which is improving our own performance and defence capabilities, nor will they prevent international aid from being given and received. And, of course, all the time, we must ensure that the Finnish thinking, the philosophy, is properly understood, which is, of course, that Finland itself, by its own decisions, what the legislation currently before us means, makes all decisions on its own basis, on the basis of its own decision-making system. President! Unfortunately, the world is in the position that such legislation has been deemed necessary throughout Europe. As Mr Heinonen has said, it is now almost — or indeed is — ten years behind schedule. And, unfortunately, over the last ten years, things have not progressed in a better direction, but in the direction that this kind of legislation in Finland is necessary today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u24	Mr President! Let's be brief. As has been mentioned here, the Defence Forces will be given a new task of providing and receiving international assistance. And still here, Mr Kanerva mentioned that the aim of all of us is, of course, to keep Finland out of military conflict. It's very important. Defence personnel who are truly committed to these international activities are primarily used for international activities, but they can still be assigned to non-international tasks in order to ensure adequate human resources and expertise. However, the Committee on Defence also states that, in this area too, personal and family reasons should always be taken into account. I believe that there are always those volunteers, as has been shown by the contributions of experts. Service conditions must be in order, insurance and so forth, and, for example, this operation in Afghanistan, which has been going on for ten years now, there has always been a willingness to do so. The Act on compensation for accident and service disability in the crisis management mission entered into force at the beginning of this year and applies to all crisis management and other international tasks. It is also mentioned in the Committee on Defence that if insurance cover is not sufficient or other conditions should be corrected, then they must also be done by the government, because this is such a great principle that we are now going to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u25	Mr President! That is what I would like to say about this compulsory departure, that I hope that, above all, those who leave will be chosen from the volunteers, because that voluntary basis will create the motive for how things are done, and the result of this work will be much better when there is a voluntary departure basis when our soldiers are sent to international missions. In general, they have already been motivated and trained so far that the skills are also very good for those chosen ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u26	Mr President! Let us underline this point, which Mr Semi has just raised. In other words, the hearing of the committee, as the representatives of Mäkipää and Kanerva, who took part in the debate, are well aware, has made it very clear that these forces are likely to be able to be built up entirely from those involved in voluntary tasks. In the case of Reservists, this is automation and a condition that everyone is voluntary, and then, in the case of regular staff, that might only be the case in these key tasks. We have one example of our Defence Forces, when a few key people were able to prevent a certain activity, and this is, of course, an unacceptable situation because we have The Treaty of Lisbon promised that we would also have the capacity to provide assistance if another EU country needed it. But I would also like to stress to the very end that I believe that this legislation is being adopted primarily because, at the worst, we have the opportunity to ask for help and get help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u27	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u28	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We have too many of these cases where we now have to deal with terrorism in one way or another. That was the last point where we took decisions to provide and receive international aid, and that is also the point where the financing of terrorism is being criminalised. In the past, training for terrorism has been turned into a legal ban, not long ago. Of course, it is also a crime to commit a terrorist act or to participate in it, but unfortunately our legislation still does not criminalise it. I myself have made a legislative initiative on this, and in some way I feel that it is perhaps high time we took this issue seriously too. Unfortunately, I do not sleep well at night because it is in my mind that it is only a matter of time before a terrorist attack can take place in Finland. It could be this kind of attack inspired by ISIS/Daesh. I do not believe that Finland is the target of a blow supported by Daesh's central management, for example, or by Daesh, but for such a blow inspired by Daesh/Isisi we may well be the target country. That is why I would like us to have stronger means of dealing with these people. Britain already listed us as a country of so-called 'hidden terrorist threat' last spring, a year ago, at the same level as Norway. From the Nordic countries, Sweden and Denmark are at a higher level, and in Britain's own listing they have been placed at the level of the general terrorist threat. Britain is one of the few countries that makes such clear records of the terrorist threat in different countries, and that is why I used that British listing here as an example of the situation. About 80 people have left Finland — fortunately, it has not grown the way it grew to that 80 — to fight in the ranks of the terrorist organisation Daesh in Syria and Iraq. A rather large number of them have died there, but some 20 terrorists, a foreign fighter, have returned to Finland and, unfortunately, at the moment constitute the threat I mentioned earlier. By the government, the matter has been examined and measures taken. The authorities are considering how to deal with these people, and various approaches have been developed to direct the authorities and organisations of our country in the integration of those returning from combat zones into society. In the case of these people, there is a list of terrorist attacks, massacres, violence against families and close relatives, street violence and violence against themselves, such as suicide. Tarja Mankkinen, Head of Development at the Ministry of the Interior, said earlier: "For all returnees, we will first find out what they have done while in the battlefield. Persons who have committed crimes shall be held liable in criminal law for their actions." Of course, this is the case, of course, but you may ask: what have these people generally done if they have travelled to Daesh's forces? It is difficult to obtain sufficient evidence in the light of current legislation, and the police have found that even impossible — as demonstrated by the Forssa case, for example — and, in the end, in the case of those convicted, there is a threat that they will be radicalised in prison and that there will be a threat when a person is released. I myself would like to ask whether we can think that we are not dealing with these people now, but that for them a prison is not the right place or that they are being held up would not be right to avoid further radicalisation and to create a threat after they have been released from prison. Personally, I would rather ask: is the place of these people generally on the loose? This report therefore focuses mainly on persons returning from a combat area who are Finnish citizens or persons who can return to Finland because they have a valid residence permit. I also think that we should now consider whether the criteria for residence permits for them are still being met after such action. I don't think so. I do not think that they should be able to return to these areas after they have gone. This very recent news, which hit the eye, listed these terrorist attacks in Europe over the last few years, 12 terrorist attacks, and there is a certain degree of consistency in them. They all had some kind of connection to the terrorist organization Daesh. So they were attacks inspired by Isis, probably by the majority, perhaps in some way also by ISIS/Daesh’s central management, and perhaps also by some of the attacks organised by the central management, but all of them were linked by the fact that these young men and even the little older men, in one way or another, have joined or belonged to the terrorist organization Daesh. Mr President! I personally hope that our country's legislation will be updated so that membership of a terrorist organisation is criminalised, that we can prevent the free movement of such persons in Finland, because now the weekday has shown that they are a real threat in Europe, both in other countries and in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u29	Mr President! It is indeed extremely important that we are able to intervene in and influence terrorism in such a way that it can be prevented. These events, which have just taken place in Europe again, are truly regrettable, and we all know that fear must not be given power, but, on the other hand, it comes from the back of the head to give life to terrorists? This is a very serious issue and a serious issue, and I hope that we will be able to contribute to reducing and reducing terrorist threats, and we will also be able to get help ourselves when we need it. The second thing that is on the table here is to make money laundering and the money laundering law possible. The first step is to examine what could be done. It is certainly very important for Finland because our legislation on the taxation of group grants, for example, dates back to the free movement of capital in Europe. It has to be understood once and for all that, if the law is from before the free movement of capital in Europe, it has not been able to take into account today's issues or today's systems, but now there are really big loopholes. Of course, this whole operation of the Money Laundering Act, the management of money laundering, would require a reform of our entire tax law and a full review of it. It is a huge task, and I do not think that one parliament will succeed, but we have to get to work on it. It is extremely important if we want to keep our tax money, our tax money, in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u30	Mr President! I stayed to reflect on the problems of the dangers and financing of terrorism, and when we had this money laundering law on the table, I stayed to think that the government would now have had a much greater chance of looking at money laundering and tightening up the fact that it would not be possible to do this kind of grey economy or criminal money laundering, given that it would have been more than the 10% ownership base of the EU Commission and not taken up this 25% ownership base. In that respect, I was disappointed by this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u31	Mr President! These speeches have already gone a long way from the actual subject of the fight against terrorism. Instead of general legislation to prevent money laundering or other forms of money laundering — that is, of course, a good thing — terrorism is being combated by focusing efforts on people at risk and on groups at risk, rather than, for example, starting to harass ordinary citizens with strange questions at the bank. The good thing about this bill is, of course, that something is being done to prevent terrorism. It is not enough to be sorry, to say that fear should not be given power, and other words that have always come after these terrorist attacks. More action would be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u32	Mr President! In fact, at the very end of my speech, when I described how much has happened in this security environment and what is now being done about it — today, more debates in this Chamber — one big thing is this updating of our intelligence legislation, which is actually a pretty big gap in the fight against terrorism at the moment. Sweden has been able to prevent planned terrorist attacks. Through this legislation, we have received tips that would have enabled us to make observations if the legislation were in order, and it is good that this parliamentary working party has now worked to get this section patched up so that we have the means to intervene in this area as well. In fact, one of the big challenges that Brexit poses is certainly that Britain is a key player in this. We must hope that this cooperation between Britain and the EU will remain effective, because these terrorist cells and individuals often operate without regard to the borders of the countries, and that is why we must be able to work together on the intelligence side as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u33	Mr President! Briefly, as I myself am in this parliamentary monitoring group on the preparation of intelligence legislation, I can confirm what Mr Heinonen says, that it is important legislation in this area, precisely so that the inquiry can determine who the people at risk and the groups at risk are genuinely, and that these restrictive and consider measures against them, so that they do not overly restrict the lives of ordinary people because some are a threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u34	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here on this very important and topical issue. It is quite true that the world around us has changed completely, and one of the biggest challenges is terrorism and the various attacks and the like. It has been rightly stated here that intelligence legislation is important. That should have been done by now, unfortunately. But it's better now that we do it. That's what we need. But then I would like to speak more and more about the root causes, that we are in this situation, from where it started. One way or another they should be able to get to grips with them, because what we are doing now is just like going from problem to problem. The real reason why this is happening in the world should be better addressed so that we can thereby try to prevent it from becoming more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u35	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u36	Mr President! I shall make a statement in accordance with the protest tabled by Mr Mustajärvi in the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u37	Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u38	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 10/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u39	Mr President! During this committee debate it became clear that this law is necessary in itself and that support for these broadband solutions is needed, although in some places there was a feeling that the projects had already been a little more than they had been in the meantime and were, in a way, a little too much anticipated by these broadband builders. I therefore agree that now, if such aid packages are to be assessed in the future, then it must also be technologically neutral, i.e. that broadband, when implemented with optical fibre, is the right solution for some places, does not mean that it is economically meaningful or technically sensible to implement everywhere. So there are also wireless solutions that can be implemented with sufficient speed and reliability in broadband connections to Finnish homes on an equal footing so that those services of the digital society can be used in any case, even if the fibre could not necessarily have been built in every home. It should also be noted that, although this refers to the broadbands of sparsely populated areas, now market-based operators do not provide high-quality broadband services of sufficient speed to all design areas. In other words, in addition to sparsely populated areas, the country should also take into account fair and affordable access to urban broadbands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u40	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is unanimous. It is very good that the government wants to promote broadband construction throughout Finland. For all of us, functional communications are extremely important. Many projects are probably waiting for this change in the law. Let us hope that this will move forward in good agreement and speed. When this government proposal comes into force, it will probably result in the fact that the EUR 20 million, which is still available, will not be sufficient for all possible projects, as is already envisaged at the moment. I myself have always wondered when it comes to broadband construction, that it is a good thing that there is broadband construction in fixed and permanent housing houses, but in the end I would like to see it extended to leisure homes. It could also mobilise more projects. We have also entered into force the amendment to the Land Use and Building Act, which has facilitated the conversion of leisure homes into permanent dwellings. It would also be important to have support euros in leisure homes. And then, as Mr Mäkelä has already pointed out in his report, the Committee on Transport and Communications has also stressed that, if further consideration is given to supporting the construction of communications networks, it is important to assess which technologies are appropriate to promote access to networks. Here, these technologically neutral solutions could probably also be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u41	Mr President! Funding for broadband projects is expected to be enthusiastic in the regions, but also legislation to dismantle standards and regulations and also to remove obstacles to good and effective broadband structures and construction. That is why the Government's proposal and this report by the Committee on Transport and Communications are welcome and it is hoped that the law will come into force very quickly. The Rapid Broadband Project was launched in 2010 under the Broadband Support Act. In the framework of this project, over 70,000 users already have access to optical fibres, and more than 17,000 kilometres have been built up. Project support has been directed to areas where there is no market economy advantage in investing in the construction of a fixed network, for example due to low number of subscribers and long distances. The speakers who spoke before us talked about whether we should build mobile fibre or fibre in the future, but we have left Parliament, which is one of the most important things about these support conditions, that technology neutrality is in force. As regards mobile connections, Finland has long been a pioneer. 4G networks already cover more than 97% of the population, and 5G is on its way. However, even comprehensive wireless connections alone are not enough to meet the challenges of the future, but fibre optics are particularly needed for services that require reliability and high speed, not to mention primary production, such as agriculture, where there is talk of large investments, which also depend on important telecommunications connections. In addition, the backbone of fast mobile connections is always a fibre cable. We hope that online connections will improve teleworking opportunities, promote agricultural entrepreneurship as well, the bioeconomy will be the future and new business activities across Finland, especially in sparsely populated areas. So until now, the programme has been slowed down by too strict conditions for the use of aid, and the money has not been used, we are talking about up to EUR 20 million. The conditions are now being relaxed in order to speed up the construction of widebands and more and more Finns get a functional network connection. It's not the first time we've removed obstacles. Government proposals have been made in this Chamber, such as the fact that these projects have received advance payment, which has enabled cooperative projects, especially in the regions. What, then, will be achieved by this future law? In the past, for example, the last two kilometres of fibre fibre were not eligible. In the future, this journey of responsibility is only 100 metres — 100 meters. This is a very big improvement. The use of aid will be significantly facilitated and the threshold will be lower and, above all, households will be encouraged to make use of this household reduction in their broadband construction work. The share of public support in the total cost of projects will be increased and more broadband projects will be allowed to receive additional support, including in the form of guarantees and favourable loan terms. At the same time, the number of eligible regions will also be increased. We are talking about black dots on that map in Finland, which are therefore ineligible areas, but now the conditions for aid are being relaxed so that the problems of access to light fibre in small-house areas are addressed by removing the commitment of aid to the population density of the regions, and this is a very important issue. In turn, the operating conditions for old projects will be improved by, for example, increasing the aid intensity. As a result of these changes, the number of eligible subscribers will increase by 287,000 households or business offices. This means, of course, that when more economies are covered, more money will be needed, and I am sure that, either in the amending budget or in the forthcoming budget debate, these broadband funding will certainly receive great attention, so that we are able to implement the bills of law and also contribute to the construction of broadband networks. Mr President! It's not just the law that's happening. Under the leadership of Minister Berner, in May 2016, the government and domestic telecommunications operators signed a partnership agreement with operators investing a total of EUR 1 billion in high-speed broadband connections, i.e. EUR 1 billion in broadband connections over the next eight years. Reciprocally, government is cutting red tape on the road to broadband construction, and this is a good example of that. Under the leadership of Minister Berner, Finland has also become active in the implementation of the cable project of the North-East Passage, which is also expected to do a great deal worldwide. If implemented, it would promote economic activity and competitiveness in Europe, Russia and Asia. Finland would also have an excellent opportunity to become an international data hub. This objective has now been included as one of the programme objectives of the Arctic Council Presidency, which will then be promoted over these two years. Mr President! Finally, I should like to say that Mrs Torniainen has also raised the issue of the inclusion of leisure accommodation in this support, which I hope will be one of the things that the government will go through with a rather rapid heart rate: how we can also promote access to free-time housing for fibre projects and thus to eligible areas, is one of the things that would help, for example, to improve the possibilities of teleworking in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u42	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr Berner, to the government and to the committee for preparing this very worthy proposal, and now it is here in the debate. Digitalisation is today, and it is the way in which we shorten distances and bring different people into the same opportunities. It has already been rightly mentioned here that we have industries in which, for example, digitalisation, information systems, are absolutely essential, and one of them is agriculture and forestry, particularly agriculture and the related EU support systems. It has only had problems with those programmes in that when certain applications are submitted by a certain date, then generally those systems will collapse just in time for that. This must be further developed in order to ensure that they also work when there are precise time limits, because it is easy to impose certain sanctions on farmers, for example, when the time limits are exceeded. At the same time, I should like to thank you for the fact that the conditions have really been relaxed and the bureaucracy has been reduced, both of which have prevented this from gaining the popularity that would have been desirable. And this change from 2 km to 100 metres and the various guarantee and other payment systems associated with it is also very welcome. All in all, Finland is, and it has the opportunity to be, a major user of digitalisation, if we only want to do so ourselves. Finally, when it was rightly stated here that leisure homes, which can now increasingly be converted into year-round residences, could also be provided with these services. On the other hand, the problem at the moment is that it is not yet possible to change these dwellings in the planning area, and I hope that attention will be paid to them in the future. It's only possible outside the formula area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u43	Mr President! Just a few more words about this technology and technology neutrality. So it is essential that we understand the basics we are talking about and what technology we are talking about. For example, when it comes to commercial 4G, it is quite different from the fact that broadband is distributed to a group of wireless subscribers. So it is not the same service — we know who there are users, can be calculated for capacity needs. In the operator-based 4G, the number of users may vary considerably depending on the situation. The fibre is not a synonym for broadband; it is just a way to quickly transfer data. In general, these solutions should take into account the fact that the data transfer is carried out as necessary, not the construction of overcapacity. What kind of capacity is needed in the future? Yes, it would take the gift of a fortune teller to predict it. Now that we are hearing experts in committee on this matter, almost all of them have some kind of interest, a commercial interest, in this matter. So there may be a desire to present those data volumes and their growth higher than they might be in the future. I mean, it's about how close they bring that fibre cable. Ultimately, the tablet using the wireless connection cannot be imported; at the latest, it will use the normal wireless network at the end of the household. The cable can also be broken, i.e. it is not a 100% reliable data transfer solution, even though it may be more reliable than the operator-based 4G, which is now quite reliable. The question is essentially how to achieve equal treatment from the taxpayer's point of view, not over-supporting some regions in relation to others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u44	The 12th item of order will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 6/2017 vp. A change to the Minutes is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u45	Mr President! This is an amendment to the Montreal Protocol on the Protection of the Ozone Layer, adopted in 87 C.E. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously supports this. In this context, I would like to point out that the Montreal Agreement is in many ways, except that it is the most successful international environmental agreements, and also an illustrative example of what environmental protection is or is not. At the time, when it was discovered that the so-called freons were destroying the ozone layer in the upper air, which, in turn, protects us all from, among other things, carcinogenic ultraviolet radiation, of course the industries that used and manufactured these CFCs, were strongly opposed to restrictions and intimidated by huge economic costs, unemployment and so on. These economic horror paints never came to fruition, but these substances, especially in the industrialised countries, were quickly eliminated. The current situation is that worldwide the use of these substances has decreased by 98%. The latest data indicates that the ozone layer has begun to recover. On the other hand, this reflects the fact that there is a delay in causing environmental problems before they are visible and before they are detected, but there is also a delay in how these measures start to work after corrective measures, even very rapid ones. This is a lesson that we do well to remember in the context of climate protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u46	The plenary session will be suspended and resumed today at 4 p.m. to put the postal law report on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-06-ps-64.u47	We shall now resume today at 3:37 p.m. the adjourned session.
