ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. Following a presentation by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, the referral debate will continue with group speeches of up to 7 minutes. After group speeches, I will give the Minister of Finance Orpo 5 minutes and Prime Minister Sipilä 5 minutes, and then move on to the debate, after which the debate will continue in a fast-track group order. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the agenda from 5 to 27 July. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u2	Mr President! We are about to start every autumn with a budget project that is clearly more hopeful than last and last year's. This year, for the first time in nine years, large-scale economic growth has been seen, which does not rely solely on construction or domestic consumption. Exports have started, and many sectors are doing well. Industrial fixed investments will increase, and this will mean stronger production capacity in the future. Total output is growing more than expected. This year economic growth will rise to 2.9%, next year our economy will grow by 2.1%. Employment is developing in a positive direction and it is forecast that the employment rate will rise to more than 70% next year. In terms of cost-competitiveness, we have captured rival countries. This is reflected in the growth of exports in concrete terms. We are now able to win market shares after years of underperformance, i.e. even though the world market is growing, Finland's share in the world market is growing even more. So Finland has finally caught up with the growth and suction of the global economy. The world will be able to draw on the economy for us, but it is true that work has been carried out in Finland under this government — and some actions have already been taken under the previous government. In the second week, Finland showed itself to be an attractive environment for one of the largest banks in Europe when Nordea decided to transfer its head office to Finland. This solution shows that Finland, together with other EU Member States, has made the right decisions in setting up a banking union. It also shows that we have made a long-term economic and fiscal policy, which is essential for predictability. In the reform of Economic and Monetary Union, it is essential for Finland to complete the road maps of the Banking Union and the Capital Markets Union. We need a genuine internal market for the financial sector and a common set of rules, supervision and a mechanism for resolution. The debate on the reform of economic and monetary union will intensify further after the forthcoming German elections. The Finnish Government takes The development of Emu will be more detailed in the coming weeks. Mr President! Just over two years ago, in the government negotiations, we agreed on steps that would enable us to close the sustainability gap and stop living as a debt. This has meant strict spending restraint, adherence to the framework and measures to strengthen cost competitiveness. It has been one of the most important objectives for which a determined effort has been made. The four-billion-dollar savings that we agreed on just over two years ago have been maintained. Now the budget deficit is shrinking and indebtedness is decreasing by more than EUR 2 billion next year. This has meant saving money and even making bad decisions. It has meant standing behind all these decisions, in this Chamber, every week, and that is, of course, part of the matter. Mr President! The tax policy line in the Government Programme, which we have implemented, is the line of work. In the 16 budget, the taxation of labour was reduced by EUR 450 million for middle and low incomes. In the 2017 budget, the taxation of labour decreased by EUR 590 million as a result of the competitiveness agreement and the tax reductions decided by the Board of Directors. The line will continue in the 18 budget as labour taxation will be reduced by increasing the reduction in earnings and changing the income tax scale by a total of EUR 270 million. Despite the challenge posed by the competitiveness pact, for example, we have managed to maintain that the taxation of anyone's work will not increase. The overall tax rate has also been reversed. This will contribute to promoting economic activity in society and will contribute to achieving, in particular, competitiveness and employment objectives in which we are still lagging behind competitors. Sweden, for example, has been reached and, on a responsible line, we will continue to be able to strengthen this development. There have been some criticisms that tax evasion is somehow out of the government's toolbox. This is what I would like to answer, that they are and that is good. But even here, reality is less dramatic. The taxation of working Finns is still strained in Finland compared to many Western European countries. This time, too, the focus on taxation will be shifted from labour to the taxation of disadvantages and consumption. Reducing taxation, especially labour, is a good employment policy. On the other hand, it is also an act in favour of increasing people's own decision-making powers. It is wrong to say that tax reductions would be given, as if it were originally State money. I said earlier, and I will say this again: it is people's money, and we want to take as little of it as possible so that everyone has the chance to do their own work and get on with it, so that work is always worthwhile. Everyone is the best person to decide how to spend the money they earn honestly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u9	Your Honor! — This is just a few pages. — — — — Ladies and gentlemen, more than two years ago, Finland was sinking. No necessary reforms had been made. Only unemployment and central government debt grew in this country. Finland was in the way of being given custody. Greece is an example of what such a course of savings would have meant in the everyday lives of the ordinary people. The misery would have gone on in the future. In the Parliamentary elections 2015, Finns voted in favour of change and changed authorities. The city centre became the Prime Minister's party. We promised to put Finland in shape and honestly said that not so nice decisions were needed to change the direction. We had said the same many times before the elections. Mr President! People often rightly wonder whether voting matters and if anything changes. There are still a number of problems to resolve, and I am sure that mistakes have been made, but that is the most important one that has been achieved. Now Finland is back, after years, on the road to rising. There are nearly 50,000 fewer unemployed than one year ago — nearly 50,000. The person who was previously unemployed and now working has benefited most from this turn of events. Welder Seija or store cashier who has been out of work for a long time I hope Timo has less money problems now. Mr President! There has been a debate in public about the causes of the economic and employment transition and who is to blame for it. Yes, the Finns have done it together. There has been a need for both a government reform policy and an agreement on the labour market, but above all there has been a need for flexibility and acceptance of the ordinary people. This has certainly not always been quite easy, since many people are already struggling with their livelihoods. But for a large part, because of all this, more and more Finnish unemployed people are now working, our debt is falling and the central government and municipalities have largely been able to avoid layoffs and layoffs. On the other hand, it is not understandable to skate with the management of business in Finland. The salaries and bonuses of the bosses of the big stock exchange companies have continued to grow, which is wrong. The central line is that burden sharing must be shared. That is why the solidarity tax for the better off will continue. The fairness of taxation must also be ensured in the longer term. Mr President! From now on, three things will be highlighted above all. First of all, we need to be more vigilant about the safety of everyday life. The world is in danger and Finland is not completely safe, as was demonstrated by the suspected terrorist attack in Turku. There will now be a substantial increase in money and resources for the police and other authorities and the fight against terrorism next year. The removal of illegal residents in Finland will be accelerated. But there's more. Too often, even from our own backs, we settle differences with fists rather than talking. The government alone cannot completely solve this problem, and I am sure Parliament will not be able to do so, but next year we will be investing more in shelters. Secondly, Finland's rise must continue to be supported. As many unemployed people as possible have to get to work. The economic and employment transition has only lasted over a year. The wage negotiations in the autumn will play a critical role in the capture of the turn of events. The Centre trusts that the alliances will be able to find solutions in Finland's best interests. It is hoped that progress will also be made in local agreement, for example. This will safeguard existing jobs and create new ones. Thirdly, we must ensure that every Finn and the whole country participate in the rise of Finland. Mr President! I received an e-mail from a single parent who wrote: "It is said that Finland will rise, but it is not yet visible in the everyday life of our family. It is tight and every euro needs to be carefully considered. Often it is necessary to compromise everything else, that there is at least enough money for food." Unfortunately, this is still the truest thing in far too many homes. The central line and goal is that growth belongs to everyone. In this situation, it is particularly important to support the disadvantaged in society even better. It is not enough, but it has to be said that many decisions are now being made in the right direction: The reform of family leave is on the move. The aim must be a better family leave model. Otherwise, family activities are now targeted at the lowest-income families. This is done by reducing the fees for day care, by raising the child benefit by a single parent and by adding a parent to the student allowance. We also raise the smallest maternity, paternity and parental allowances. We will start a free early childhood education experiment and improve the equality of comprehensive school. We also raise the lowest sickness allowance. In addition, we are tackling unemployment and exclusion among young people, for example by increasing the number of places to start vocational training. A third increase is now being made in the guarantee pension during this parliamentary term. However, there is still work to be done in the years to come, and it must be said that even the smallest earnings-related pensions are not very good. Mr President! Although the improvements I have just mentioned are small, they are in the right direction. Mr President! One more important thing. The whole of Finland must be involved in growth. It is important for the city centre that good life is able to live everywhere in Finland. It's about balance. Transport projects are now coming more evenly across the country, but, above all, more profitable jobs are needed in the localities and regions where people are now moving away from work. If there is genuine readiness and desire in this Chamber to build a more balanced Finland from the south to the north, from cities to rural areas, the centre will be ready, even on a fast schedule, to convene a joint consultation of parties and experts, the aim of which would be an agreement that goes beyond the government and opposition border, over several parliamentary periods on this issue. In addition to balanced regional development, the agreement would also allow solutions to be sought jointly to the problems of the major cities, such as unemployment, queued services, housing shortages and often the failure of public transport. Mr President! A fine country, 100 years old Finland, has been built with the input of many generations. With many indicators, we are the best country in the world, but there is still work to do. The well-being and security of a 100-year-old Finland’s future depends to a large extent on whether we keep all Finns and the whole country with us. Mr President! Hopefully, building an equal, employment-friendly and secure Finland is a common goal of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u10	Madam President! Positive economic news is available throughout Finland and from a wide variety of companies. Our growth is wide-ranging and our exports are pulling back. The ports will be enlarged and the corridors will be deepened. In the everyday life of families, the change in the direction of the economy is reflected in the strengthening of livelihood and the faith of the future. Mr President! Government efforts to reduce indebtedness and strengthen economic growth, employment and entrepreneurship have started to bear fruit. I am not saying that the turning point is due solely to the government's actions, but the government's decisions have certainly played an important role in stimulating the economy. Consumer and business confidence in the outlook for economic development began to grow strongly already in 2015 and 2016. Trust was certainly strengthened by the fact that there has finally been a government that has had the courage and the sense of purpose to tackle the problems of our economy and to carry out the much-needed reforms. With these reforms, the government has helped thousands of Finns return to work and to a better livelihood. Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party welcomes the budget submitted to Parliament for next year. Prior to the Government's budget debate, the Coalition Party presented three major themes which we felt were particularly important for securing the future and sustainable well-being of the country and every Finnish citizen: 1) The Coalition Party wanted to ensure that the change in the economic cycle would remain firmly in line with the chosen disciplined fiscal policy, while promoting employment. Measures to support employment and growth and strengthen skills and security must therefore be taken without compromising the objective of balancing public finances. We wanted 2) to secure the stable development of the purchasing power of employees next year through tax reductions and 3) to launch the necessary family leave reform for equality, employment and family flexibility. The government gave these three objectives the green light. Mr President! In the speeches made during the summer, the positive turn of the economy and some kind of speed blindness related to it gave rise to a completely absurd debate on the divisional power and demands for a rigorous fiscal policy to be compromised. To quote Congressman Vartia, our fate threatened to be the same as that of a dieter who, after ten kilos of weight gain, rejoices in losing one kilo and then decides to end a well - started lifestyle renovation. The Coalition Party has repeatedly pointed out that the economic turnaround must not mean a slowdown in the pace of reform. The upturn is the most opportune time for structural reforms. The government did not succumb to divisional populism and reckless expenditure increases; responsible decisions were taken in the budget debate. New additional efforts were directed towards supporting skills, security and future growth and employment and preventing exclusion. Despite a number of necessary and justified additional efforts, there was no slippage from the basic line of strict economic policy. As a result, the central government deficit will be significantly lower next year than in previous years and there will also be a tendency to reverse government debt. Mr President! The employee is the winner of the budget line and the winner of this budget. With the tax solution made, the Government will stick to the Government Programme’s promise: no employee’s taxation will in practice increase next year. This solution, which is also sought by employees' organisations, protects the purchasing power of Finns and is a restructuring in line with the convention's working line, which strengthens employment and economic growth. The reduction in income tax was partly financed by shifting the tax focus from work to harmful and environmental taxes. During the reign, our total tax rate, among the highest in the world, has also been calculated. I am pleased with the tax solution, but I am disappointed with the Finnish tax debate in general. We are talking far too little about the tax disadvantages of high and fast tightening labour. When a kindergarten teacher or a tradenom who earns about EUR 2,400 a month leaves only a little more than half of the EUR 300 increase in pay for additional work, I think it is right to ask whether our progress is already too tight at a reasonable income level. [Heckling] Mr President! In addition to employees, families were taken into account in this budget. In particular, the mobilisation of the long-term goal of the Convention, the reform of family leave, is an indication of the government's ability to agree on reforms. The guidelines for family leave reform have already been criticised as an impossible equation. To comfort all critics and those concerned: the family leave model presented by the assembly meets all the preconditions for reform, both the strengthening of equality, the improvement of employment and respect for family choices. The daily life and economy of families will also be facilitated by reducing early childhood education fees by EUR 70 million next year, in addition to this year's relaxation. There will be 6,700 more families in free early childhood education, and the sister discount of another child will be increased to 50 per cent. These changes will strengthen the participation of children in early childhood education but will also break down incentives traps and improve employment. Mr President! It is straightforward and honest to say that the economic revolution that we are facing has not corrected economic structures. The government has taken steps in the right direction, but we still have a way to go when we want to reach our target of 72% of the employment rate and end debt by 2021. Unfortunately, in the next decade, our dependency ratio will continue to deteriorate and today's objectives are too low to safeguard tomorrow's well-being. We must make a determined effort to raise our employment rate to 75% — the level at which the other Nordic countries already are — to the level required at least to finance the services of the Nordic welfare society. Employment growth is the most effective and sustainable means of combating exclusion and social inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u11	Mr President! The presentation of the budget by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo was correct. The growth of the global economy is now giving Finland strong traction assistance. As President Rinne has emphasised before and since the last parliamentary elections, export-driven growth is the best medicine for Finland. The economy is growing, but the cuts are continuing. The losers are low-income pensioners, students living on student aid, unemployed people and families with children. One shouted at the absence of Minister Orpo's motion and with it the heart: your proposal did not reveal how we prevent the growth of inequality, stick to the integrity of our common society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u16	Mr President! On September 5, 20. Once a business day. Finland lives with successful companies and skilled employees. It is not a coincidence that in Finland Donald Duck is more popular than Mickey Mouse. We do not sail from success to success on a bark boat, but try hard, sometimes with success, sometimes with failure. A happy country of sad songs, a country of entrepreneurs. The Blue Parliamentary Group appreciates trying. Each of us has both an entrepreneur and a worker. The only way to try is if you work. The government has had the courage to try to raise the country's economy. The government budget for next year will support economic growth and job creation, reduce taxation and break government debt. The lost decade of the Finnish economy is over. Economic growth has been at a rapid rate of 3% this year, and it is expected that next year too will be a good one. Exports are already growing faster than imports. A significant gain from the bet on exports belongs to improved competitiveness. Industrial orders have grown by nearly 20 per cent from last year. Nearly 420,000 tourists arrived in Finland during July, more than before the last recession. Industrial orders have grown and in January to July bankruptcies were started by 15 per cent less than one year earlier. At the end of July, there were nearly 50,000 fewer unemployed job seekers than last year. Next year the unemployment rate will fall by one per cent. According to the statistics, the opposition — when you always appeal to experts — has changed direction in Finland. Hope has awakened. The future is blue. [Heckling] Mr President! Balancing hunger and caring for one another is one of the key challenges of our fatherland. It is our common moral duty to support anyone who cannot move forward by himself, but we have no moral right to take from anyone any more than is reasonable. What is neither right nor fair cannot be a law. Many Finns feel that hard-earned euros go into a state’s bottomless sack as taxes like water from the back of a goose. The future Blue Future of our party is tax-critical. The middle class tax rebellion has begun. During this term of government, we have reduced income tax by EUR 1.2 billion, with a focus on the low and middle incomes. It was decided to maintain the lower limit of the solidarity tax at its present level. This is a sensible tax line. The cake must be distributed, but it must be done in such a way as to have the right and the opportunity to succeed with one's own honest work. Our parliamentary group also welcomes the fact that the government's debt will fall clearly in next year's budget: EUR 5.6 billion of new loans were raised this year, less than EUR 3 billion next year. We must not accumulate the burden of debt for future generations. Mr President! Finland will be fine if the families are well. Early childhood education fees for families with low and middle incomes will be reduced. There will be 6,700 more families in free early childhood education. Another child in day care falls half. According to the Central Association of Taxpayers, a four-person family can receive a maximum discount of 170 euros from day care fees. Of course, the benefits for large families are even greater. Blue people are particularly pleased that the government is investing in reducing inequalities. [Left: But how?] The higher costs of driving on gravel compared to cities are unequal. The blue line is good for the motorist: the scrapping fee will be refunded, the gas tax will not be increased, and the car tax will be reduced again. This is especially in the interests of the Finnish citizen living along long distances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u17	Mr President! The overall picture of our economy is brighter than last year. GDP forecasts show growth rates of more than 2% for next year. Export figures have improved and investment by both households and enterprises is at the best level in years. Employment has improved, especially for the long-term unemployed. The public debt ratio has also slowed down. Despite positive economic developments, the government still has a lot of work to do to achieve its objective of breaking public debt. Central government debt will increase by EUR 3 billion next year. Even to achieve the EUR 3 billion savings target of the Social Security Reform, there are a number of risks identified by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. They need to be taken into particular consideration in the further preparation of the reform. Working and industrial life is key to a healthy economy. The government must start cutting back on business subsidies. Current trade subsidies distort competition and burden taxpayers. An example of this is the expensive wind-power feed-in tariff, which has already brought the taxpayers an additional bill of hundreds of millions of euros. Raising the employment rate is a key issue for Finns. The government must do what it can to ensure that as many hardworking Finns as possible find a job and get to work. There is no need for resuscitation. There is a need to improve the conditions for working and entrepreneurship in cooperation with social partners. The gradual reduction of income taxation has already produced good results. Nevertheless, more effective and targeted employment measures are also needed. The skills of many unemployed people are of high quality and their only problem is the lack of a job. Some of the unemployed need to be strengthened in basic skills, while some of them have become obsolete as unemployment persists. However, most people are motivated, only job opportunities are missing. A meaningful supply of education and good working life will promote the integration of young people in the labour market and prevent their exclusion. The reform of vocational education and training in the workplace and the reduction of graduation periods are steps in the right direction. Timely guidance and intensified job search counselling are cost-effective ways to improve the employment of young people. High housing costs reduce the conditions and incentives for employment, especially in the capital region. Rapid measures are needed to curb the rise in housing costs. However, the government's budget proposal contains them sadly scarcely. The constant rise in real estate taxes increases housing expenditure and eats up purchasing power. Expensive housing in particular vaccinates the most low-income citizens. Prime Minister Sipilä, your government must also bear in mind the matter of the poor. The legacy and value base of Santeri Alkio would be very topical at a time when income disparities are increasing. When the economy has finally turned, we need to invest in helping the most vulnerable Finns. The Finns Party expect the results of the poverty group led by Juho Saare to guide government policy in a just direction. Taxes according to their ability to pay — it is a basic policy that the assembly should remember. Many families with children are already struggling with small incomes. Nevertheless, in its budget, the government is proposing that no child tax deduction will be granted next year. The taxation of many families with children threatens to tighten with this decision. The Finnish Parliament Group considers the abolition of child reduction to be contradictory, especially at a time when the birth rate of Finns is at its lowest since the famine years. A policy that reduces the income level of families with children is the wrong signal for the future of society. National advantage first. This is the line of the Finns. Parliament must primarily monitor Finland’s national interest. The EU's net membership fees and the cost of membership for Finns must not increase as a result of the UK's EU separation. Finland's EU line must also be clarified and we must ensure that we stand together on the negotiating tables with the large EU Member States. The Finnish Parliament Group also expects the Government to publish a report on the total cost of immigration in accordance with the Government Programme. They've grown dramatically compared to a few years ago. The budgetary proposal draws attention, among other things, to the increased unit costs of the reception system. Their rise is very strange, because many of the expensive reception centres and emergency accommodation that have been quickly introduced during the asylum crisis have since been closed down. The Committee on Finance must therefore be given a detailed explanation of the reasons for the increase in unit costs and of all other immigration-related costs. The additional cost of the budget for safety is a small step in the right direction but insufficient due to the deteriorating internal security situation. Additional targets are needed for the activities of police, protection police, Customs and emergency centres, among others. We also hope that Parliament will hold a wide-ranging debate on the internal security situation in Finland, in line with the discussion initiative of the Finns on 8 September. The topical debate on security is very necessary after the terrorist stabbings in Turku, and it is even necessary to: The Chief Staff urged the garrison to avoid travelling alone in the dark. Such a change is extremely worrying. In Finland, it has become customary for men, women and children to feel safe outside their homes, and this must be the case in the future. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u18	Mr President! "It is not surprising that such an event has taken place and that an unfortunate development That is what Prime Minister Sipilä said when he asked why the government, in its policy, has taken the most from the poorest and given the most to the richest. "Unfortunate development". This is not a matter of self-improvement, it is a matter of the government's value choices. You decided that the poor will be impoverished and the rich will be rich. The rise in the world economy is a credit, but there is little desire to take responsibility for the consequences of its own decisions. The small corrections now presented may indicate that the conscience is a little pounding, but these patches do not improve the gap that is growing between Finns. The government often talks about the fact that painful decisions have now been taken. They're not painful for everyone. They won't hurt you. Nobody's taking anything from you. They hurt the poorest Finns. They hurt the world's people in need. Mr President! We are now making the first budget for the next 100 years. With the value choices now made, we are choosing a course for this country. What is the significance of the centenary year if we do not even stop to think about what is the most precious, most beautiful thing in this country? How do we want to reform this country and how do we want to cherish it? For a hundred years this country has been built on equality and civilisation because they wanted to make better land for those who come here after us. In times far more difficult than this, women were given equal voting rights, a maternity clinic system and a maternity kit were created, comprehensive school was made, children were taken through the right to equal day care. Ask yourself honestly: Would this government make these reforms? How do we answer the big questions of our own time? Are we saying that poverty can be reduced, but only when times are better, that education can be invested, but only when we have fallen far enough from the top, that climate change can be combated, but only as much as the industrial lobbyists want? Mr President! The Greens offer a balanced alternative, [Department : Velkaline! ] which defends the weaker and education that combats climate change and reforms the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u34	Fru talman, Madam President! "We have a Nordic well-being society,its benefits and services,but the employment rate is less than European." This quote is from Secretary of State Martti From Hetemäki before the budget was processed a year ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u37	Mr President! Before the budget debate, the Christian Democrats expected the government to make efforts, above all to support employment and entrepreneurship, to facilitate the situation of families with children and to strengthen internal security. Improving employment was a central goal of the government at the beginning of the parliamentary term. Unfortunately, the government itself has had to admit that it will not achieve the objectives it has set.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u38	Mr President! Firstly, Mr Östman gave the best recognition to what the opposition might think he would hear about the budget. That was to do the right things, but they are inadequate. Thank you for that. We are doing the right things, we have done the right things with determination. We adapt public finances and continue to take measures to improve employment. The government's line is that employment, the fact that as many people as possible get to work, is the best remedy for inequality, the growth of income inequalities and the well-being of society in general. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u47	Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u48	Madam President! The Government's budget proposal continues in previous years: growth, employment and mediating. The downward spiral of the Finnish economy has now been corrected. From an economic point of view, the lost decade is behind — the economy is growing and unemployment is falling. However, the depth of the downward spiral is illustrated by the fact that Finland’s economy is still smaller than in 2008. Thus, after several years of contraction, the economy has started to grow. The average growth rate for the years 2016 to 2019 is now projected at just over 2%, which was also our objective. The good development of employment is forecast to continue. More and more unemployed people get jobs. The government has been severely criticised for failing to meet its economic policy objectives. However, persistent and unrelenting work begins to bear fruit. Two important objectives have already been achieved: the debt ratio has already fallen and the overall tax rate has fallen. In order to improve employment, work will continue with the same determination. We are one more step closer to our high employment rate target of 72%. Mr President! Finns do not understand that public finances are living in debt. The end of living in debt in 2021 requires us to be able to keep up with the current developments. The task of closing the sustainability gap is about halfway through. In order to achieve this goal, it is, above all, necessary to pursue decisively the goal of social and regional reform. Only a sufficiently high employment rate will safeguard the financial base of the welfare society for future generations. Employment is also the best way to prevent exclusion. The current developments, namely the reduction in unemployment and, in particular, long-term unemployment, will enable us to build a fairer and more socially sustainable society. That is why the improvement of employment has been at the centre of the government from the outset. Mr President! Over the past few weeks, there has been a debate on the distribution effects of the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u57	Then we go to the debat, where the maximum length of the speeches is 1 minute. I'm going to ask those of you who took part in the debut to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u58	Mr President! The group speech of the Greens was rhetorically very good. When you talk about cutting subsidies that are harmful to the environment, it sounds good for many people, but unfortunately it is also necessary to look at what is behind that title and what it means for a normal working Finnish,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u63	Mr President! A few points need to be raised from the opposition's speeches which need to be corrected here. So this eternal mantra for this kiky responsibility and who is responsible for the cuts in holiday money. That can now be clearly stated: That is not the decision made by the government to cut the holiday money. The government set the frame and targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u68	Mr President! This issue of holiday pay is an excellent example of whether growth belongs to all, including those carers and teachers. Such washing of hands by the government, and especially by the coalition here, has not been seen since Pontius Pilate. Let us now go over this: the government — and the Ministry of Finance, which was led by the Coalition Party — ran a blackmail package, a blackmail package containing not only holiday money but also Sunday allowances, overtime payments and many other extortions. With this you blackmailed the social partners, and now the result is that the holiday money has been cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u75	Mr President! The Greens have an industrial kill line, the green ones are like watermelon: green and red on the inside. It is good for Finns to be aware that the red-green government would not reduce income tax on employees. We are a credible counterforce to the threatening green wave of the Finnish economy. We defend industry, we also defend the right of a Finnish motorist to use a private car. Mr President! A green wave would also mean a wave of asylum seekers in Finland, because they are opposed to the government's good tightening up of asylum policy. On the other hand, Touko Aalto supports and accepts civil disobedience against the return of asylum seekers who have received a negative decision. I wonder how the Greens who want to become a Prime Minister can accept illegality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u76	Mr President! In this debate, I would like to comment on the EU's economic policy, which Mr Orpokin raised in his opening speech. The Coalition Party and its European umbrella organisation, EPP, organised an event in Helsinki on 8 September in connection with which Minister Orpo said that he wanted to deepen the EU's economic integration under certain conditions, and the same message was expressed here in his opening speech. If Chancellor Merkel were to win the German federal election next Sunday, it is highly likely that he and French President Macron will do everything in their power to speed up the EU's economic integration. This would be a significant change to the current situation and would also conflict with: With the Sipilä Government's programme, which is very reserved for EU integration. Parliament has now been working hard to improve the economy by means of domestic measures, and I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: is the government planning to transfer the economic decision-making power of Finland to the Eurogroup?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u77	Mr President! It is a pleasure to hear the interest of the Greens in the alternative budget, especially in the Prime Minister's party, and now that the Prime Minister has also told us that he has learned to appreciate the importance of the researched information, it is precisely when it comes to cleaning up business subsidies to the environment that the Green Group relies on the assessments of the leading research institutions in this country which are genuinely useful to the Finnish economy, which subsidies help Finland to reform and help Finnish companies grow. This is what our presentation is based on. In addition, the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, spoke here, which came to the conclusion that there is no problem here. You have made massive cuts to nature conservation appropriations — massive cuts — and these small patches do not change that. The Greens are happy to be involved in the reform of family leave, and that is something that we welcome with joy, as well as the free provision of early childhood education. But the big question is that you have cut off from all the most vulnerable children, deprived them of their rights, raised their groups of children, and this is not going to be corrected here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u78	Mr President! Improving employment is extremely important and there is no disagreement within this Chamber. But I am really concerned that the only answer to this increase in inequality for the government is to raise people to work. How about those low-income guys who don't work? Let us take, for example, the long-term unemployed taken by Minister Orpo. It is extremely gratifying that the number of long-term unemployed has decreased by 20,000, but what about the more than 100,000 people who are still long-term unemployed? Is the government's point of view that it doesn't matter what kind of money these people are supposed to make until they find that job? Does the government consider it irrelevant how low-income pensioners should cope, who already have a career behind them? Or does it matter how students should cope, whose job is to study and not to work for more than a few years? This is the great problem which is linked to the increase in inequality and to which the government has not yet responded once.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u79	Mr President, värderade talman! In the longer term, we need to reach 80% of the employment rate. One major challenge, however, is that many of our societies will never have access to the labour market. Far too many 30-year-olds end up on medical pension because of mental health problems. Often a fatal and costly cycle for a private person begins with concerns related to over-indebtedness and the economy. Already some 400,000 Finns have default marking. It does not fit my sense of law that, in some cases, labels may hang on the register for years after the debt has been settled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u80	Mr President! We must have the courage to create growth. We must have the courage to promote security as well as the courage to build the future. It takes courage to start a family today. The government is now targeting many of its economic adjustment measures on families with children living in peak years. Cutting the interest rate reduction on mortgages, raising property tax and also abolishing the child tax deduction on income tax — these are significant disadvantages for many families with children. In our alternative budget, KD intends to present a solution to the challenges facing families with children. I ask Minister Orpo: is the government prepared to hear and discuss our constructive and serious financial solutions, so that we can continue to insist on, among other things, child reduction?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u81	Mr President! The competitiveness solution must have contributed in some way to this economic growth. It is good that the economy is growing and that jobs are being created. It's worth a lot to all of us. Mr Minister of Finance, social security expenditure was passed on to employees, by two percentage points or more, to all employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u82	Mr President! The implementation of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government's programme has increased confidence, predictability, which has enabled Finland to become more competitive. If another way had been chosen, it might be that economic growth would not be of this kind. Recognition of the facts is the beginning of all wisdom, and therefore it is only through such reforms that the economy has been brought into this state of affairs, and only through this will we be able to increase funding in the future for education, education, equality, the emphasis on the weaker. But if we had not done what has been done, there would be no other possibility. Therefore, the facts need to be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u83	Mr President! I was wondering, after two and a half years in this Chamber, whether or not the government's actions will grow in inequality. Now according to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, but also according to the Ministry of Finance's own report
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u86	Mr President! The debate on income differentials and inequalities is important, and the main measure of inequality is the employment rate. The government has agreed on a number of measures to ensure the livelihood of those living on minimum benefits. The amazing thing about this defiant rhetoric used in this Chamber is to pretend to give to the rich. In fact, the public authorities still take half of the high-income ones and, for example, EUR 3000 per month from those who earn one third. Income taxes will be reduced for everyone, which is fair and reasonable. Now that the impact of the tobacco tax on low incomes has risen, should the increase be reversed in order to balance the income gap? I would also like to comment on the balanced Finland agreement proposed by the Centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u89	Mr President! I am sure everyone will be pleased with the positive employment and economic news, regardless of who and by whom many of these good decisions have been made. At the same time, responsible decision-makers should also be concerned about increased income disparities and increased poverty and inequality. If income disparities are to be reduced and poverty and inequality reduced, this is possible. It's about value choices. Every euro within the budget and spending limits is a value choice. The Greens believe that it is wrong that people's basic security and education have already been cut enormously, but that researchedly ineffective and environmentally harmful subsidies are not ready to take decisions at this stage. It is straightforward and honest to say that the government's many good budgetary decisions are minor cancellations of its own previous major cuts. If the government cuts people first EUR 100 and gives them back EUR 10, it is a EUR 90 cut rather than a EUR 10 payment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u90	Mr President! I agree with Minister Orpo that employment is a very important issue for us, and therefore I am surprised at your statement that you are not interested in the employment rate. I hope that is not what you meant in your speech. In addition, I drew attention to the light talk in the government parties about the archaic brain and its kind of mic mice. I do not believe that the citizens are very funny because they have, for example, 400,000 medical fees for enforcement. Let's talk about it seriously. People are in trouble. Fortunately, the Prime Minister, for example, has acknowledged this in many of his speeches, for which I thank him. I would now like to ask you that we still have quite a large amount of immigration costs. I myself have had to take this approximately 0.5 billion table of integration costs from Yle in order to discuss this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u93	Mr President! The truth is, however, that 1.2 billion have been reduced in labour taxation and targeted at low and middle incomes. Much has been said here about these calculations of Parliament's information service and it has been argued that this significant increase in income differentials can be read about, but these calculations, which are nevertheless public, should be looked at in a little more detail. So there is also an increase in the income of people on low and middle incomes, but where there has been a loss of income, that is, at the lowest decile, and this is very much due to the fact that it is targeted at cuts in social benefits. But on the other hand, I would like to ask whether it has also had its own influence on the fact that employment rates have risen again,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u94	Mr President! It sounds like we are now explaining black and white in this Chamber, but it is true that the budget proposal increases the income gap. This show is cutting off the low-incomers again. The economy is growing, but the government is still making a very hard policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u99	Mr President! Work is the most essential element in reducing inequality. It's the government's choice of values. When the overgenerations of justice, that viewpoint, are nurtured, that is where the most important thing is to reduce debt. It is the government's choice of values, and in both of these valuations the government has succeeded excellently so far. Nor can the opposition dispute that in my opinion. However, Finland is ultimately a country of small income disparities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u102	Värderade fru talman! Det är bra att vår economist går lite battre nu. Men samtidigt är det så att vi har en åldrande befolkning. Det föds för få barn, vi har alltför många människor som är utan jobb och vi klarar oss sämre nu i OECD:s jämförelse när det gäller utbildningen. Alla de ox sakerna borde få klonckorna att ringa. Vi behöver en famileledighetsreform, vi behöver fler människor på jobb och vi behöver framtidstro, vi behöver satsning på utbildning och forskning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u103	Mr President! Economic growth is, of course, a very good thing, but not everyone can benefit from it. The increase in income differentials is particularly relevant for the ageing population. The government has cut basic security, the government has increased property taxes, the government has increased the ownership of pharmaceutical costs, and we must remember that index freezing will be in force until 2019. You are about to increase a little guarantee pension, that is a good thing, but it does not apply to all pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u106	Mr President! We have a right to our own opinions, but no right to our own facts. The fact is, the government didn't cut the holiday money. It was the solution of the kiky solution. The Government’s objective was to have certain cost implications. The government would have preferred to extend working hours, [Left: It extended!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u107	Mr President! It is true, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Orpo, Mr Orpo, that the fact is that the facts and history will be such that this government, Minister Orpo and the coalition, cut the holiday money for teachers and nurses. That is the problem, Mr President and Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u108	Mr President! I wondered if it was a drop of sweat that came to my forehead, but it was water from the handwashing box of government when the coalition tried to withdraw from the cuts in the kiky agreement that were made for the holiday money of low-paid public workers. It was a Sicilian offer: these will be cut off, or we will make even worse decisions. It doesn't change anything by washing your hands. We'll remember this. You have cut the holiday money for low-paid people and taken away their children's vacation opportunities. Mr President! When the government began, Prime Minister Sipilä’s eyes were wet talking about how these are willows in which everyone participates. Now that we look at the results of these projects, whether it's the calculations of the Parliament's information service or the VM's own calculations, the poor do the work and the rich sit in the stands with a hot cup and cry out for their instructions. The poor are even being taken away next year, according to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u109	Mr President! In my view, the accusation of who did and what did, as far as kiky is concerned, is pointless — although I can see that it is very delicious. It is true that certain measures proposed by the government were replaced by a negative response. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u110	Mr President! Two and a half years ago, the situation was really bad in this country, almost catastrophic, and now we are in a completely different situation. That is why now is the time to look to the future, and the future seems to be on the increase. To this end, I do require clear measures from the government which have not been included in this budget. This applies, therefore, to families with children, to pensioners and to people who do not have a job. It is clear that those who have access to work will be in a better position, but we have a huge number of people who depend on basic security and are in a very weak position at the moment. What are the measures that the government, in concrete terms, will bring to Parliament for information and consideration in order to put an end to this development of inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u111	Mr President! It was great to hear in the group speeches of the government parties how they say that investing in education is what can build a sustainable future, and that is how it is. It is great that the government has put some very small, very targeted and mainly fixed-term investments in education, but that does not remove the fact that the foundations of our education system have been seriously undermined during this term of government. The savings of about half a billion have been taken from it, which means that we have larger groups in school, the right to early childhood education has been limited, the number of local education has decreased in vocational schools, the amount of student aid has been cut. The fact that the government is now putting 50 million permanent contributions into the education system will not help to undermine what has now been done in the education system. Greens want to make a real investment in education and prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u112	Mr President! I'm making an exception now because I've been thinking it's not always worth going back to the past and wondering what you've done. It's not going anywhere. But now I have to, because somewhere in the world there's kind of a limit to piety. Representative Aalto, you are a fine man and a good friend of mine, my fellow students, but somewhere there is a limit of hypocrisy. You said in your group statement that the results of Pisa are weakening and regional inequalities are increasing, which is true and of common concern, but the Pisa results are measurements of the previous government. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u115	President! An important gift for a 100-year-old country was that we did not face a government crisis, and this is a great thank you for the birth of a blue parliamentary group. We do not need a government crisis and we do not need labour market crises. Many people in this country are still struggling, but Finland is on a good path. The budget looks to security, to strengthening national integrity, to strengthening the faith of the future. The course of work, enterprise, communication brings results and a brighter future for many. Now we need to be patient, make sure everyone stays on board.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u116	Mr President! In the big picture, the general economic turn for the better is not thanks to the government or to the achievement, as was not the fault of previous governments that the general economic situation deteriorated. As a small country which is part of the euro area and is heavily dependent on exports, we are linked to the economic development of Europe and the world. It is therefore misleading to justify cuts in low incomes through the turn of the economy or employment. Employment will not improve as a result of you, Prime Minister Sipilä, and you, Minister of Finance Orpo, cutting off poor, sick, unemployed, families with children, students and pensioners. Cutting and tax relief on low incomes are ideological choices. Growth in income differentials is an ideological choice. Prime Minister Sipilä, when will you move from words to deeds and start to combat inequality? When will you respond to the distress of those who will not benefit from the budding growth but will be forced to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u117	Mr President! Poverty and inequality, and the rally continues. With these methods, we will not achieve the outcome that the government is now working hard to achieve and which must be appreciated. Minister Orpo, I am sure I will repeat this for the fourth time and will do so until things change: this government, like previous governments, has not reacted to the fact that the tax number that workers have is blocking the black economy and bringing tax revenue to this country. Why is the government still sleeping with this? It is insolent to Finnish honest entrepreneurs who suffer from the competitive advantage for which they are not able to do their job. I would have liked to have seen this entrepreneurial-friendly line put out loudly and as a leading star — but not in a blue dream, excuse me. Spreading hands and sighing: how wonderful the future is. Minister Orphan, one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u118	Mr President! Out of sight, out of mind. On that wall are those fine statues of Wäinö Aaltonen. There's a Raiders. It's the old Finnish man who built this country. There's the future, the mother and the child. And there is the harvester: still the same old man who waits. It is extremely worrying to look at this budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. A new state compensation will be granted to municipalities for the costs of urgent social care for persons residing illegally in the country. That's as much as 5.3 million. At the same time, however, as much as 4.2 million will be cut from care for the elderly on the basis of this quality recommendation for ensuring good ageing, and a total of 16.5 million will be saved. It's huge money. Can you tell me why you're doing this? At the same time, the facilities of the elderly will be reduced. This is entirely systematic: year after year, from one government to the next, long-term care facilities for the elderly will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u119	I will give the reply to Mr Yanar, and then we will take the answers of the ministers, and then the debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u120	Mr President! Representative Emma Kari has just pointed out that green company subsidies and the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies are based on researched data and on the research carried out by the best economic experts in this country. This was a good response to the criticisms of the representatives of the government parties. Instead, it is surprising to see how the representatives of the government parties are apparently still reluctant to cut loose the money that is being spent, in the form of inefficient business subsidies, when the alternative would be to put this money into education, research and the building of a more equal society. This is the green line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u121	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u122	Mr President! In this debate on the welfare society, its inequality and overall well-being, it seems to be forgotten that it is based on work, taxes on work and a strong public sector that organises and produces equal, good services and takes care of the most vulnerable. This will not be possible if we do not have a competitive, knowledge-based economy and a well-functioning public sector and public finances. These simple things the government is determined to carry out. We have put our public finances in order, improved competitiveness, made countless efforts to improve employment, so that we can afford to maintain the important services of our welfare society and take care of everyone. This is the best work to combat inequality and strengthen well-being that can be done. It has not been of much value in these speeches that our employment is improving so strongly. What I meant was that that number doesn't matter. It matters there. It's there behind that number for every person who gets a job out of unemployment. Twenty thousand fewer long-term unemployed — it is a huge number. Still, yes, there are 100,000, but now the direction is right, the speed is right, and we are doing more to improve unemployment. It's the best job. I am not underestimating the fact that there is a small movement in income distribution calculations in the wrong direction, but it is small compared to it if you see how much better the distribution of income in society will be if people become employed get out of that unemployment trap. I think it's the most valuable thing. Well, as far as this knowledge base is concerned, which we have talked about in this Parliament and a lot and on the subject, so when there has been public money, budget money, a little less in use, what has been started during this government period and what has not been done during the last government term is the reform of the education system as a whole. Early childhood education, comprehensive school,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u125	Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u126	Mr President! Firstly, from these calculations: it is a fact that in the smallest decile income has fallen by EUR 3 per month, and that is the fact that the biggest factor is index cuts and an increase in tobacco tax. These things show up, it's a fact. Well, does growth belong to everyone, and has everyone come along? They haven't been in yet. 20,000 long-term unemployed have already been involved, but not all have yet been involved. We've got a lot of work to do. The number of long-term unemployed is definitely still too high and work is being done on it every single day. So, has everyone been on the job? I must say that the main disappointments of my Prime Minister's term have been that this voluntary invitation has been so badly answered. Ministers have dropped their salaries by 7%, but this voluntary invitation was not answered. Well, can we use the budget to...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u127	And yet again, Mr Terho, the European Minister, two minutes, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u128	Mr President! In the past, Mr Savio asked specifically about Europe and raised this lively autumn, which is to be expected in the EU in terms of reforms. At the moment, there are no specific proposals at the table, but it is very important that we follow them closely and follow the government programme, which has anticipated much of what is likely to happen during this autumn. Later in the autumn, Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss this issue further. Then on the big picture of the economy: to mention the argument often raised in this debate that the economic growth that has now been achieved is just an international economic change, it is strange how long this cyclical change then moved to Finland if the international growth started ten years ago only after the decisions of this government moved to Finland. This argument is simply inconsistent and false. The Government's decisions alone have not translated the world economy, especially but not the Finnish economy, but they have significantly strengthened Finland's economy and brought Finland into this positive international development. The opposition, particularly the Greens, has often pointed out that instead of cutting down, it would have had to be a much more comfortable way of refocusing harmful business subsidies. The question arises that if this is so easy, why did you not do this when you were in the government itself? It's a very strange rhetoric because you've had the opportunity to do this. But, fortunately, you will have an opportunity to do this, because the government has decided to put a joint working party on parliamentary reflection on how business support will be managed in the future, so you will have the opportunity to make an impact. When we talk about income differences here: I think we all have the same view here that income differences should not be allowed to be excessive, but before we can make transfers there must be income that can be transferred. That is why this government has made value choices about work, about trying: more people who receive income, then transfers can be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u129	Mr President! I'll be back for the holiday money cuts. They are about the fact that, at the government's request, employees were left in unequal positions in such a way that hundreds of thousands of public sector workers lost 30 % of their holiday money as a result of this agreement. The government demanded that more cuts be made to public sector employees and employees. So the question is that the government's policy also discriminates against employees. The second point I would like to address: the Prime Minister's speech that, once we have made painful cuts, we need measures to boost economic growth and employment. That is true, but you have a lot of individual decisions that really do not improve economic growth and employment. I will take, for example, the entrepreneurial discount. Much more than EUR 100 million will be spent. The explanatory memorandum states that there are no employment effects, no economic growth effects. A clean transfer of income to wealthy people, well-off people, at the same time as being badly cut off from unemployed people. Your government's policy will continue with this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u130	Mr President! This is where the Greens said we have to cancel all the training cuts. What does it mean when the second largest section is not spared at all? This means that we will have to cut social security seriously or we will have to take on a lot more debt. The Greens used to talk about sustainable development, today they make Greek choices. Even the Greeks did not make such choices as the Green Party. Now we should necessarily promote labour mobility in a number of ways. On the contrary, the Greens are proposing an increase in the tax burden on labour mobility. On the contrary, we should make a move-out allowance so that people can move to work, as it is now available in Finland for once.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u131	Mr President! I take it as an honour that the Centre, in particular, devotes its time to considering the green option rather than its own line. I recommend that the centre continue to explore the green option. From there you can see that there is an alternative to cutting people's basic security and training. I therefore recommend to the government a policy of narrowing income disparities and investing in education and giving the greatest attention to the implementation of major structural changes. And what are the big structural reforms that will increase employment? Many times Elina Lepomäki and Juhana Vartiainen have rightly drawn attention to this, and have asked the Minister of Finance Orpo directly what major structural reforms to promote employment are if we cannot give up the need for a foreign labour force. How will you get more employment if structural reforms are not possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u132	Mr President! I do not believe that Finns want to hear bickering and bickering about this Parliament, but rather what has been done and what has been achieved and what the future looks like. The measures have been tough, I am sure everyone will agree on that, and also difficult, but with these measures the economic direction has been reversed. Now the economy is growing, unemployment is falling and employment is improving, but we still need more measures to ensure that in the future we will be able to take better care of every Finn. I personally welcome the fact that early childhood education fees can be reduced, student aid can be increased by a family increase and free early childhood education can be tried out and also guaranteed pension can be increased again during this government. These are the small investments we can afford now, and they show that where we most need it, this government will also put it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u133	Mr President! Every Finnish citizen must have the right to appropriate care. However, this is not the case. Last night, I got some feedback that I couldn't get to the treatment. On the other hand, the government does have the resources to deal with illegal residents. As far as day care is concerned, I am glad that the government adheres to the premise that parents should care for their own children. But what about kindergarten teachers? Many kindergarten teachers already have to work more to earn a living. We must invest in the attractiveness of the work of kindergarten teachers and in the fact that it is a field for which professionals are seeking. At the moment, kindergarten teachers are not appreciated, the value of the work is not visible. The government must invest in it because kindergarten teachers do the most valuable work, i.e. are:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u134	Mr President! "Sound savings and cutting decisions have been made From now on, investment will be made in entrepreneurship, employment and major structural reforms. They provide a strong basis for further growth. In this way, the debt-driven economy will be transformed into a growth-driven economy. It is in the interests of the whole population and it will also ensure that future generations are able to live." Well said, but they're not my words. This is what Mr Kankaanniemi wrote and said on 31 May 2016. Now, as I listen to Congressman Kankaanniemi, it was like a changed man speaking. I think the ideas have turned upside down when they got into the opposition. I wonder how this line can become so inconsistent after a place changes from government to opposition. I deeply marvel at the unconstructive activities of the Finnish Parliament Group in this Chamber. There will be no proposals, but there will be no proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u135	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you expressed your disappointment at the fact that, despite your appeal, well-paid leaders did not take part in the voluntary work. But, Prime Minister Sipilä, I want to ask you: Why did you leave the participation of these well-paid gentlemen and women to their own free will and goodwill? The Prime Minister also has the tools to involve those who are well-off if he wishes to do so. That instrument is taxation. Unfortunately, this government's tax policy as a whole has been favourable to high incomes. As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, it is certainly true that it is no longer necessary to argue at this stage whose fault it was, even though the fact is clear that the agreement would not have arisen without the government. But equally the fact is that the government, if it so wishes, can cancel this holiday allowance cut by allocating sufficient resources, so my next question to the Prime Minister is: do you keep this for the public sector, including kindergarten teachers,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u136	Minister of Labour Lindström, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u137	Mr President! I asked for the floor because this time of employment has come up in many speeches and in this debate in general. I understand that, of course, concerns about low-income and unemployed people are always topical, but it is sad that this debate has not paid any attention to the positive flow which fortunately has come to Finland. It has been raised, the employment rate has improved, and we have a positive problem called a positive structural change. Fortunately, when this came to us, the government began to wonder what we could do to promote it. And above all, when we have talked about this, that the whole country is involved in this, the idea here is also — once this positive structural change has left Turku, Varsinais-Suomi — how can we spread this good in the rest of the country? And now there are messages from all over — from Central Finland, Lapland, Eastern Finland — that positive flow is taking place. Of course there is still much to do here, we have too many unemployed people and too much long-term unemployment, but the signs are good, and that is why I asked to speak. Second point: When I started in 2015 in this task, the problem immediately came into hand: the end of the budget for employment. At the moment, the situation is quite different. In fact, we have a positive problem here, too, that we are now considering what we are informing these players on the ground about how to spend this money and, secondly, what kind of services are available to the unemployed. This is only positive, and it is my responsibility, of course, to ensure that this will be announced. There is money left everywhere in Finland. In my opinion, this is a sign — the SDP presented the model of the Ringe, which is a very smart model — that the government has its own model of activating people and that this model works in a proven manner. I would also like to focus on this positive issue without, of course, forgetting the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u138	Now we're going to go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u139	Mr President! Representative Huhtasaari spoke here about the situation of kindergarten teachers. You were in favour of the government, which was the architect of this kiky agreement, and those decisions now show this cutting of holiday money. Today, Helsingin Sanomat quoted OKM's research that 40% of kindergarten teachers want to change fields due to the mental and physical pregnancy of work. I would also argue that an ungrateful cut in the holiday money for kindergarten teachers and day care professionals has seriously hurt the people in this sector. That is why I agree with those Members of Parliament who now appeal to the government parties and ministers: stop now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u140	Mr President! The 2018 budget book under discussion contains a lot of good things for Finnish people, including the most vulnerable people. The good news was that the Minister of Finance said that work will be continued to strengthen the Finnish welfare society and bring jobs to all Finns. The opposition is heartless: you remember the past, you do not bring any proposals to build a Finnish welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u143	Mr President! Of course, it is an extremely good thing that the economy is now growing. This is what we've been waiting almost ten years for. In practice, it does not matter to whom credit is due, as long as economic growth is a fact. There is momentum in the construction sector, exports are driven, domestic consumption is in place. Things are relatively good. In Varsinais-Suomi, there is even a shortage of skilled employees when Turku Shipyard and the New Town Car Factory hire what they can now. In times of economic growth, more and more are getting better, but so care must also be taken of those who cannot find these fruits of growth on their own plate. We now need a great deal of work on new jobs. The work, as we know, is the best social security. We need a more ambitious policy in order for Finland to reach the Nordic level in terms of employment rates, or even the bottom level, where it reaches 75 per cent, up to 80 per cent in Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u144	Mr President! It seems that at least some of the opposition are more concerned about holiday money than about how to create new work. I understand that there are parties here which are working parties and specifically support work, employment and more employment. The Sipilä government, the whole government, the centre, the coalition and the current Blue Group, deserves recognition for the continuity of economic policy, for our competitiveness has improved and for all this to create work. Until this mid-term, the Group of the Finns Party was also involved in this work on economic policy. Thank you all, too, because this is for the benefit of Finland as a whole. Mr. Speaker! We are also doing reforms, for example in transport investments, which are doing a lot of good for the whole of Finland through the budget. Congressman Mäkelä spoke of the policy of the bridge drum. I hope that it will be done not only here in Helsinki and in the capital region, but also in the transport sector, as the future budget will do significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u145	Mr President! Finland needs work and, above all, the respect of its employees. Apart from the question of whether growth belongs to everyone, these holiday money is also a matter of appreciation for the low-paid in the public sector, often for workers in women-dominated sectors, such as kindergarten teachers. And Mr Zyskowicz — I see that Mr Orpo no longer wants to talk about this matter, you want this to be quiet to death — what you said about the role the government played was a beautiful story, but that is not true. I think you left the old papers in the old hall, namely I have black and white here: in November 2015, the government put forward a presentation with a holiday allowance cut. It's black and white that the government was running this holiday allowance cut. And it was the government that put its spoons in the labour market soup. You took the power to run this holiday allowance cut, Minister Orpo — you also have the power to cancel it. Be upstanding. Put your heart in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u147	I think it is reasonable that Mr Zyskowicz should be given the floor to reply. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u148	Mr President! Surely it is for the people to blame the government for the holiday money cuts and to demand that the government cancel them. However, the facts are as follows: The Government sought certain solutions to improve Finland’s cost competitiveness in order to obtain exports in order to get jobs for people, as has happened. The government sought to extend working time widely, for everyone, properly, and the lack of readiness for this then contributed to the reduction of public sector holiday payments. In my opinion, it was an unfair and bad solution. It would have been better to extend working time for everyone. But let us see what, for example, the President-in-Office: Rinne then said who was involved: 'We support the fact that the labour market organisations agreed on the key issues on the labour market. And when they found a solution, we didn't want to say you made a bad deal." So I saw Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u149	I think it is reasonable that Mr Rinne should be given the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u150	Thank you, Mr President. The fact is that the Social Democratic Party is in favour of a contractual society. It's obvious. And when the central organizations came to an agreement, it was done by them. But the fact is that the Ministry of Finance, which manages the coalition, insisted that public sector employees be cut more than other employees. That 30% holiday allowance cut came precisely for the public sector workers because the Coalition Party and the Government demanded it, the Ministry of Finance was required. You can't wash this, you can't wash it. You can't wash it. You can't wash it. It's a fact. Then, Mr Sarkomaa, you asked for concrete proposals. Mr Lindtman listed seven concrete elements to improve this government's budget proposal, to make a better, fairer policy. I would like to make a specific point here that you should cancel the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the withdrawal of the They are endangering the livelihood of long-term pensioners at the moment. Cancel them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u151	Mr President, Mr Sipilä! During my previous speech, I received a message from a key ay-active member of the Trade Union for Services (PAM). He sent a message that you went to the meeting threatening that if the union doesn't approve of the kiky, the government will make its own decisions. Is it a free choice or forced blackmail? And specifically by the government. And if this message is true, who am I going to trust, you or this Ay-active?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u152	Mr President! The key cornerstone of the welfare society is sound public finances. Our economy fell into a downward spiral less than ten years ago, and the budgetary situation was still much worse than the picture was one year ago. When this government began its work, the state of public finances and our economy were in crisis, and now this economy has been made right. As we look at the forecasts for this early year on how the economy is growing and how public finances are developing, the forecasts did not look very good. When it was said from the government that the economy is growing faster, especially the opposition, but also part of the media said that it is not going to happen, the economy is not going to grow. Now we are all saying that the economy is growing more strongly. It provides a basis for fiscal consolidation. You have to have income to be able to manage income transfers. Now is the time to move from restructuring to development, just as the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u153	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here today about value choices, and now we have to raise a matter of value selection which was discussed this morning in the Administrative and Security Section: there is such a point in the draft budget that EUR 184 million will be earmarked for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. This is EUR 80 million more than the spring spending limits level. I understand, as is still the case, that we are dealing with these legally binding issues, but not with money being spent at the same time on the costs of those who have received a negative decision. In other words, we currently have 1,646 people who have received a negative decision after all the processes, who have been given a decision that they should leave the country and who will submit a new asylum application and resume the process. Now this money is needed for them because our process is not working. So I would ask the government: could you correct these lines by interpreting the laws according to the fact that when a negative decision comes on all the governing bodies,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u154	Mr President! Now that you’re looking at this performance, you’ll think of the lyrics: “Why cry when I’m dreaming?” By the way, by the way, these words are from the Orphan Son's waltz. It is often said here that there must be income in order to make transfers, but this is how it seems to be the case in this country that if a person does not have income, they also want to take the transfers away completely. Transfers are left somewhere else. This is the bad thing about this. Work is the best social security, but if a person is retired, a student, sick, he cannot go to work. In addition, we have these incentive traps for people who receive basic income support. They cannot go to work because basic income then collapses. These are issues which I would like to see taken into account in this budget. Let us also include a little heart in this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u155	Mr President! This has certainly been a long time from public sector holiday money, and perhaps we should start looking to the future. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u156	Mr President! Representative Jaskari, public kindergarten teachers according to statistics presented by Helsingin Sanomat, have the lowest wages in Western Europe, EUR 2,200 a month. You have ruined their last summer holiday, many families have missed a holiday, many families have missed a planned purchase or a full holiday otherwise. Do you really think that the country's competitiveness will be safeguarded by your continuing this operation next summer and the next summer? The Left Alliance still strongly believes that such solutions are not the right way to increase Finland's competitiveness. The right way is to invest in knowledge, specialisation, research, training and respect for employees, employees, not to humiliate them and squat on the basis of solutions under the Kiki Agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u157	Mr President! The government has assumed its responsibility and turned the country's course back to the upturn. This fact does not turn into anything else by discussing it. The economy is on a growth path and unemployment is falling. It has not been an easy task for the government, and of course there have been gravel sounds all the way. However, in just over two years this government has made a lot of positive progress and employment has been steadily improving. Tax solutions have been implemented sensibly in the overall sense and have stimulated business activity. The government has implemented a successful economic policy and there is no reason to doubt that the same responsible line will continue. Norm dismantling has also played an important role on the working list of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u158	Mr President, Mr President! On page 9 — until then we can probably all read — is the title Inequality. There are no fewer than seven lines and seven lines tell us that it will be rejected by EUR 35 million. So it's less than a percent of the total budget. So it has now been praised here in the Chamber that there is a ton in the pocket and 70 cents in the cup of the beggar. You shouldn't be complimenting me. Similarly, it is not said here that inequality will be increased by several tens of millions of euros, as cuts to the poor and the sick will continue this year. This is misleading. Discipline continues. This government will be the only one in the history of Finland who has cut the purchasing power of national pensions. And yet another example of inequality: The day before yesterday, Helsingin Sanomat told us that the hospital fees have been paid and 125,000 copies have been recovered, an increase of more than one third over one year, and the researcher says that it is the government's authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u159	Mr President! Let's really look to the future. According to the survey, young people’s great concern is related to their daily lives and the surrounding environment, and the most insecure young people are said to be those living in the north and in the capital region. Security is undermined by unstable economies, savings, cuts and also immigration. It is therefore important that, in the future, whatever the government is going to be, this debt burden will be reduced from year to year. Thanks to this government, this has been done. And the messages also convey the importance of caring. Now employment has improved, and, as Minister Lindström also mentioned, these measures will be taken to ensure that as many young people as possible get into employment, all those who are excluded and, in general, those who are waiting for employment. At least now there is this kind of future spirit that we are better towards going, and only together will we achieve this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u160	Mr President! I do not recall that the Minister of Finance has ever, in his budget speech, drawn attention to nature conservation. This time it happened. This is, of course, necessary because Finland's natural environment is at present extremely seriously threatened for a number of reasons: increased use of wood, increased cutting of forests, serious damage by the mining industry. It's important that we do something now. Thank you for raising Metso appropriations by EUR 10 million, it is a significant increase, and also more money to protect the current waters. This is rare, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u161	Mr President! I have often wondered what has prevented us politicians from making real reforms. I have thought that this may be a lack of courage, but it would also require more imagination. There is plenty of unworked work in this country; it will not stop by doing it. We need fundamental changes in taxation, we need fundamental changes in social security and fundamental changes in the labour market. Now I am taking the floor in the budget debate because I am concerned about our future budgets. Finland is going at a different pace than the rest of the world, and it is not in any way impossible for a world economic crisis to start. Today, countries and economies are so interdependent that it will inevitably be reflected in Finland. I therefore encourage the government to make bolder changes to these three issues, taxation, social security and the labour market, because Finland's resilience to the crisis is not very strong. And when the next crisis comes, there will be much more difficult discussions in this Chamber than there is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u162	Mr President! There are always two parts to income differentials. One part is what governments and municipal councils and others cannot influence because it comes from the surrounding society. The second part is what is done on a decision-making basis. And the sad thing about the government budget is that it has decided to increase income differentials. But inequality is not just a difference in income. It is also long-term unemployment, for example. Minister Lindström here praised the fact that employment funds are now in place. In the spring, we had experts from the TE Offices in committee who said that the money was out of money, and the reason was that the criteria for using that money were so strict that it could not be used for the purpose of providing support to the most vulnerable people, but only for companies' pay subsidies, for example. This is the big problem with labour market policy. For example, in July the job search was interrupted by 14,000 people,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u163	Mr President, värderade talman! If we could just focus for a moment on this big picture of the economy. It is at least of interest to the RKP, and we are also interested in the ideas of the government about the sustainability gap, namely that the sustainability gap is estimated to be around 10 billion. Now the government estimates that, through the social welfare reform, the sustainability gap can be bridged by around 4 billion, is it not? At least the budget book on page 17 reads 4 billion, which means that it is the wrong number in the budget book. President! Both I and the whole Swedish parliamentary group have been left unclear as to how the government will calculate it. Can you, Mr Orpo, now turn us into a translation of this 4 billion, as the mere investment in this digitalisation will also cost several billions. And the answer must be something other than the need for wider shoulders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u164	Mr President! I have always thought that fishermen are the most jealous, but I have to say that I have been wrong, because there is nothing going on with the amount of envy that comes from the opposition when the government has succeeded in its work. This Kikiy agreement — and thanks to the government for putting pressure on the implementation of this agreement and thanks to the signatories — reduced unit labour costs by 4%, and these unit labour costs are approaching the unit labour costs of Germany and the euro area. That is why exports are pulling, which is why employment is increasing. In my opinion, the Kiki agreement was a good one, and we should thank all the parties for it afterwards. One factor that I think the government should pay more attention to is the current account. In Sweden and Germany, the current account is as positive as 6-8 % of GDP. Unfortunately, for us, it is negative or at the limit of zero. This current account is very important, because we are going to get the deficit right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u165	Mr President! Minister Lindström told us about this positive structural change that we have, and it is quite true that employment has improved. However, this long-term unemployment and unemployment as a whole are in a very serious crisis in that way when you think that job vacancies and unemployment do not face up to it. There is a lot to do here, so I wonder a lot why the government is cutting EUR 59 million from labour market training. At a time when there is a rise and a chance of getting these jobs that are opening up to new sectors, should we not train these unemployed people into that new job? This will enable them to take part in this uplift and prosperity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u166	Mr President! When I listened to Mr Haraka’s speech there a short time ago, the words of the Finnish statesman, former Prime Minister Paavo Lipponen: “Woe to this washing of hands, this hindsight, this burping of his own chest.” I think we could now agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the social partners, employers and social partners, agree on the conditions of pay for people and other similar working conditions. I think we've had enough bad experience of it, what happens when we start to be champions in this gym. Mr President! In my opinion, this budget is a very balanced whole in this economic situation. Finland's direction has been reversed. After the lost decade, we're on a growth path. All economic indicators are pointing up. In particular, I would like to thank the investments in security, police, protection police, asylum seekers' cases and, in addition, these acts of social justice, the increase in guardianship, the guarantee pension and the abolition of low-income day care fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u167	Mr. Speaker! The issue of family leave reform and worryingly low birth rates has been discussed here, and unfortunately, the government is now again sending a negative message to families with children by removing the child-reduction of income tax, which is taking the family's treatment of taxation in the wrong direction. In a European comparison, families with children are subject to record-breaking tax in Finland. Of course, it is also a matter of attitudes, and it requires positive encouragement, which Mrs Rinte must be commended for, even though giving birth is not voluntary work — which would be easier to understand if men were to be sued for breeding. Home care support is one of the family benefits most appreciated by families with children, and I hope that the government will leave it alone so that you do not give them any more negative messages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u168	And to this point we will take one more reply, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Let me remind you of the background to the Kiki agreement and, in particular, the consequences. In other words, the government’s mid-term competitiveness agreement provided for even tougher forced laws, and the trade union movement chose between the two evils a smaller one and agreed to the public sector holiday payments cuts. But the solution had the unfortunate consequences of equality, and there is cause for concern about this equality. These holiday allowance cuts will increase wage differentiation. In the private sector, wages will increase by 0.6 per cent, but the wages of local government employees will decrease by 1.1 per cent this year. The wage bill of the Competitiveness Pact strikes women-dominated sectors, as 80% of employees in the municipal sector are women. Now that there are flashes of light in the economy and employment, it would be worth correcting this unequal cost savings and giving up holiday money cuts and strengthening equality in working life. With this solution, the government would be able to correct the difference it itself has torn between the salaries of women and men.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u170	Minister Orphan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u171	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to make a more constructive speech. Here representatives Aalto and Vartia talked about the need for reforms, and it is quite clear that we need to reform our society and our economy in a significant way. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that structural reforms have already been carried out in the course of the government and that many are on the way or are starting to move. But it is clear that a lot of reforms are still needed, a few quickly. What I have said a long time ago, namely the reform of the entire education system to respond to today's working life, global competition, people's capacity to face up to digitalisation: this is a very central issue. The reform of family leave is finally starting, accompanied by the abolition of early childhood education fees, which have a major incentive trap effect. Incentive traps are one major structural issue in which we must be able to move forward, whether it is a reform of the entire social security system or a piece by piece, as the government is doing now. Taxation focuses on labour taxation, business taxation on indirect taxes. Similarly, a very big question for the future: The whole process is moving towards a carbon-neutral economy, a carbon-neutral Finland, which is a great thing. There's another step to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u186	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u187	Mr President! In his speech, for example, Mr Juvonen raised the issue of care for the elderly and, on the other hand, compared illegal residents. First of all, on the issue of illegal residents, I would like to say about the amount of around 5 million you have raised on the budget that this is, therefore, a transfer of money from the state to the municipalities. It will, I believe, compensate municipalities in the same way as in urgent cases of health care for the costs incurred by these people. So it's not new money, it's a normal compensation policy for municipalities. With regard to the care of the elderly, which you have highlighted as such and for which I thank you for the work you did in your time as a representative of the government party on quality recommendations, it would, of course, be nice to have the same tone of voice today. At the time, you were very constructive in making a quality recommendation on the basis that we did not have to deal with the size of the staff. This long-standing good culture of quality recommendations, the emphasis on home care for older people, and also the improvement of activities through it, such as technology, is the big spirit of the quality recommendation — not that we are reducing carers or workers there. At the same time, however, I would like to say that there is a need to send a call to the municipalities to invest more staff in home care now that institutional care and its power has been dismantled. It also raised the issue of child tax deduction and many themes related to birth rate and family leave reform. With regard to the marginal conditions for family leave reform, which have been well-recorded here by other government ministers, we also registered the right of the child to be taken care of at home until the age of three. As far as this reduction in children is concerned, it should be pointed out that the Committee on Finance, under the leadership of the political parties of that time, including the Social Democrats, stated very clearly that its practice is difficult and that it should be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u188	Secretary of Education Grahn-Laasonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u189	Mr President! Two and a half years have been listened to in this Chamber to cancel and cancel and cancel, and today the same note continues. However, I do not believe that the majority of Finns in this situation would like us to go back in time. [ Hustles from the left] Similarly, when it comes to these issues of education and training, I would like to say that this economic situation will enable us once again to make targeted, bright investments in education, prevention of exclusion, reduction of early childhood education fees, strengthening the equality of comprehensive school, enabling regional equality and development in comprehensive school, research, research, research activities at universities of applied sciences, new creation, positive structural change, obtaining and finding the skills that are now being created through this positive cycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u192	All right, we're gonna take one more debatation round. It's started by Congressman Korhonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u193	Mr President! Local government finances are also part of public finances, and the very interesting situation in this debate today is that none of the speeches have yet touched the local government finances in any way. And considering why, of course, it is undoubtedly due to the fact that this government has now been very determined to strengthen the local government economy for its part. During this parliamentary term there has been quite a total change in the last parliamentary term, i.e. the problems of central government have not now been passed on to the municipalities. Public finances have not been adapted by the discipline of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u196	Mr President! More adjustments were made during the last parliamentary term, but it was nevertheless possible to narrow the income gap. Finland has been a model country for equality, but unfortunately this issue is falling apart. The negative effects of inequality have also begun to be reflected in our income, education and health inequalities. Nevertheless, there is no change of direction in politics. Adaptation is targeted at the most low-income people and those who are already disadvantaged, as well as at education and training. While the government has cut off pensioners, families with children, students and the unemployed, it has been able to afford to allocate funds to its own interest groups. It seems that the cuts have not been made because the economy has been set up, but have been used to finance tax reductions, multi-million-dollar inheritances, car tax reductions, and new ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u197	Mr President! Representative Emma Kari here earlier brought up the environmental money and said that massive cuts have been made to the environmental money. This draft budget should not be viewed from the point of view of the administrative sector of one ministry, it should be viewed from the perspective of several. Transport investments, for example, are part of environmental policy. We invest in cleaning the Baltic Sea, we have established a national park, we invest 10 million in Metso funds, the climate law is implemented, recycling and the circular economy is developed, the bioeconomy is being strongly promoted, emissions-free transport is being developed with the goal of 250,000 electric cars by 2030, Tampere will have a steering wheel, the Paris climate agreement has been signed, women, children in development cooperation funds. The environment, work, wind power, solar power are at the forefront of Finnfund funding, among other things. What else do you need?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u198	Mr President! Increasing employment is the key to better economic development in our country, and the government has managed to reduce unemployment to some extent, on the plus side. However, the fact is that inequalities are on the increase and are worrying, dangerous. Many low - paying families, families with children, small pensioners are in a very difficult situation. Small pensioners often receive age, sickness, and under no circumstances receive any additional income. The top salaries and bonuses of government executives are still in use. It is not a country that is rich in its intervention, but where is justice and morality in these matters? Fortunately, the solidarity tax was even maintained. Security must continue to be a priority. In the speech by Mr Savio, women, girls, all citizens — they need to have access to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u203	Mr President! The group speech by Mr Demarite criticised the budget for development cooperation, and Mr Orpo was talking about these some time ago. However, Finland will assume global responsibility next year for an amount of EUR 886 million from development cooperation funds. Compared to 2017, this amount represents an increase of approximately EUR 5 million. So we are investing in development cooperation, even if at the same time: Finland still has to take out a loan to cover all its expenditure and to help disadvantaged citizens. Next year, development cooperation will account for 0.38% of GDP. We are therefore at the same level as Germany, France and Ireland, for example, so we need not be ashamed in any way. We'll do what we can. But we cannot save the whole world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u204	Mr President! What do the Greens want? For example, the Greens want this government to stick to Finland's international commitments, that we are involved in halting the loss of biodiversity. This government has abandoned this objective. You're making massive forest fellings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u207	Mr President! The main flaw in this draft budget is the big picture thinking and concrete measures. A few examples of these shortcomings: Where is the real reform of the labour market? Why not dare support equality, children's rights, flexibility in everyday life for families with children through parental leave reforms? Why are more and more young people on sickness pension? Why do our schools no longer create equal conditions for all children? — This is a question of fate. Good government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u210	Mr President! Much has been said about the use of forests. After all, the use of wood can replace fossil fuel. Last week, the Finnish Government and most of us in Parliament were delighted that Parliament understood the importance of good forest management in carbon sequestration. The majority of the European Parliamentarians in Finland are also working on this issue, but I understood that Pietikäinen, the European Parliamentarian of the Coalition Party, was on a different line. Was he on the Green Line? The latest measured annual growth of trees is about 110 million cubic metres, and statistics show that the total annual removal of trees was 82 million, or about 75 per cent of the annual growth. The majority of experts say that the total removal from annual growth can be up to 85% without harming it. Representative Salolainen regretted in his speech that Finland's forests were being cut more than ever. My question is: do the opinions of Salolainen and Pietikäinen represent the contributions of the Coalition Party?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u211	Mr President! This forest debate is quite incredible, for example, from the Greens. Think of it, ladies and gentlemen: the Green Party programme states that wood will reduce the use of coal and fossil substances, but at the same time, the EU will be making a major contribution to the use of Finnish forests. This is a perfect two-faced policy. You betray your own constituents and at the same time cheat with both goals and action. Look what you're doing! The Finnish economy is already doing quite well just because forestry and the forestry industry are in favour in this country. As Mr Östman said in the previous speech, forest growth is increasing. We have no threat other than this kind of thinking, which the Green League represents in its own actions. Let us hope that there will now be publicity that this blow will not go on indefinitely, because two wheels cannot drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u212	Mr President! During this term of government, the government is seeking 110,000 new jobs, and that is a good thing. You say, Minister Orpo, that we can now win market shares in the world, looking good. Yes, but only in certain sectors, far too narrow. This is the big challenge in the long term, in the next decade, and this budget will not answer those questions. Our long-term growth is still too thin. There's a lot of talk here about competitiveness. Representative Jokinen said that the government makes good investment decisions. Yes, I did, but in Lapland, for example, where exports are increasing exceptionally much at the moment, you have not made an investment decision at the port of Kem, for example. Logistics, if any, is part of this competitiveness. Because you intend to take a holistic approach to Finland's growth and development
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u213	Mr President! It has been seriously argued here that the well-earned do not in any way participate in the voluntary work. However, the tithe of the highest income costs almost half of the taxes. These revenues and the taxes paid on them are based on a high level of knowledge and we cannot afford to lose these experts or revenue. The government has been accused of being heartless. In my opinion, a sustainable economy and also a great heart is shown by the fact that future generations will also have the opportunity to live in a welfare state. Researchers have suggested that the employment rate should be as close as 80% in order not to significantly weaken the dependency ratio in the long term. If we do not get close to this objective, keeping services and transfers even close to the current level, let alone improving them, it is impossible. That is why we need more reforms that will increase both labour supply and demand. The list should include the reduction of business subsidies already mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u214	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! We are talking about raising employment rates and reducing income disparities, and that is why I say that we need more women in the labour market. The current systems of home care support and family leave increase the pay and pension gap between women and men and constitute an obstacle to equal career development. Statistics speak for themselves, as the employment rate of young women is significantly higher in all Nordic countries than in Finland. In Finland, women's employment is falling, while men are rising. By reducing the payment period for home care allowance by half, while the earnings-related leave is extended, for example, according to the 6+6+6 model, and by dividing family leave more evenly between both parents, we speed up the return of mothers to work. So is the government going to do a better and more impressive family leave reform than a surface scratch?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u215	Mr President! It is great that, for example, a thousand student years are added to vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u218	Mr President! The citizens will understand even painful decisions if they are fairly well thought out. This is what I dare to say for the feedback I have received. The inherited sin of a sitting government is that decisions and cuts are made without impact assessments or, if they are made and they are not ideologically pleasing to the government, they are not quoted. As a last example of this, plans to break down the state-owned company VR. As far as the government's own value choices are concerned, the government is prepared to tighten the daily lives of the lowest incomes in the coming year by around EUR 40, while at the same time the sum of households in the highest income decile is a plus sign of EUR 400. So you heard right, 400 euros. That's a purely bourgeois choice of values. We have a situation in our country where one in five Finns fails to obtain or treat medicines due to increased social welfare and health care fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u219	Mr President! Minister Orpo called for a proper debate, and even I and Mr Mustajärvi, during the last period, were able to discuss government-opposition borders. Hopefully, the Finns and the Blues will also find each other together in the opposition, which also means the fall of the government. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u222	Mr President! It is clear that educational savings have been made both during this and the previous government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u227	Mr President! On the basis of this debate, I must say that the facts are not in order that I agree with Mr Zyskowicz' s wise idea of trying to keep the facts in order. [Ben Zyskowicz requests the reply — Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u230	Mr President! I am a little frustrated, partly because I listen to this debate and the emotions are getting to the surface. There has been a lot of discussion here about inequality. There has been talk of social justice, families with children, education, the environment. On the basis of this debate, I could conclude that these are very important issues for Parliament that we want to promote. At the same time, I wonder how gender-oriented this policy is and how all the structures affect these decisions that are taken. For example, would the position of women in the public sector be different if there were no men as leaders of all parties and as leaders of labour market actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u234	Värderade Herr Talman! Åland's self-government will be 100 years old in four years' time, and the current economic system between the state and self-government will soon be 25 years old. The current system is based on the fact that all taxes on the Åland Islands are paid to the State, just like everyone else, and Åland will then recover 0.45% of all tax revenue from the state. The root of the problem is that the levelling rate has not been revised since that system came into force some 25 years ago. Åland is a good taxpayer, as employment is 82%. The latest available tax figures show that: Åland pays more than 0.71% of the direct taxes of the state, but the lump sum is only 0.45%. That is why work has long been done in Åland to bring the lump sum into line with the present reality. I'd like to ask the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u235	Mr President! In the last parliamentary elections, Finns voted in favour of change, and under the direction of the centre, the economic direction has now been reversed. Over the year, 50,000 jobs have been created throughout Finland. This increased faith in the economy is also reflected in my home country, North Savo. The chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Kaikkonen, gave a very welcome opening in his speech, that is to say this parliamentary working group on a balanced regional development agreement. This is a very worthy proposal. The opposite is the way in which we can turn this good economy into a boom, growth, in a different direction. It is good to remember that we all need each other: villages, regional cities, regional centres and the whole of Helsinki. Finland is a small country, and if you look at this country from the great metropolises of the world, we all have rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u236	Mr President! It is a good thing that the government no longer denies that the budget currently under discussion is unequal. The government's choice has been to invest in tax reductions that favour the well-off. For example, for ordinary families with children, the government offers mainly blackmailing purses, and it is good to ask whether this is a sustainable policy in this period of time. Mr President! The National Action Plan on Fundamental Rights and Human Rights is currently under discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would also like to draw attention to the worst human rights violations in Finland in this budget debate. These are human rights violations in the services of the disabled and the elderly. What kind of country is Finland when it does not repair the services of the most vulnerable people? Minister Orpo said:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u237	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about the situation of the poor, low-paid and low-income people, which is of course a good and understandable thing, but I would stress that we need to keep all Finns involved in order to motivate them to keep this society up. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u240	Mr President! Finnish forest management is the best in the world, and as the forest is used, it is also cultivated that even representative Hakkarainen has enough wood for the sawmill. But for this labour shortage: there are quite successful companies in those regions and they are currently not getting enough labour, and that is why there should also be mobility in the labour force and access to these jobs from a distance. That is why I am not in favour of cutting mileage or commuting deductions. Fortunately, this time the budget will not increase the fuel taxes on transport, and keeping the costs of driving under control is important for the national economy as a whole. There is also a rural area where people have no other form of mobility. After all, the car tax is now falling moderately and precisely according to emissions, and that is a good thing. The scrapping premium encourages consumers to use cars with lower emissions, and the renewal of cars is also important from the point of view of emissions. That's how much you say hello.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u241	Mr President! It is true that a low-income pensioner who suffers from diabetes feels that he does not care in this society at the moment. He's not important. He has to wonder whether he would not buy his medicine altogether when there is not enough money for everything, not for food or medicine. And at the same time, the most prosperous part of this society will receive EUR 400 more money — EUR 400 more money. This is the reality where people live. The government says, well, we're raising the guarantee pension. Yes, that is a good thing. 100,000 Finns receive more money through the withdrawal of guarantee pension. But we have 1.5 million pensioners. The average pension is EUR 1600 per month, while the number of pensioners under EUR 1000 is over EUR 200000. They're being ignored now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u242	Mr President! The cost of immigration will also be high next year, as can be read in the draft budget. The attraction factors of our country have been, and are still, hard, and we have people coming to seek asylum, who are not entitled to it. They're coming here for a vacation. They know that they will return home when they receive a negative asylum decision. Or they won't, they'll stay here. What have we done? A voluntary return grant has been made for them, i.e. a return grant, which is now being increased by the Ministry of the Interior in the new project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u246	I would like to add the following answers: Talvitie, Räsänen Joona and Kääriäinen, followed by the Minister's reply, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u247	Mr President! The Minister of Finance has well pointed out this autumn that we have not only a sustainability gap but also a skills and employment gap. As we listen to this debate in the Chamber today, we sometimes have to see if we have a budget for next year or whether we have an activity report for this and the last few years. What is significant is that the Government, under the leadership of Minister of Defence Niinistö and Minister of Interior Risikko, has already made security one of the top priorities in the spending limits debate and that the police, Customs, Raja and capo will receive nearly EUR 100 million for next year. Indeed, our family leave system needs flexibility, the fact that there is a great variety of life situations in different families, both at work and at study. It is important that the reform of the family leave system should also move forward. Urban policy consists of many sectors, including zoning, social and economic policies, which affect the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u248	Mr President! There has been quite a lot of discussion here today on this issue of holiday money, and now that the government has listened to the speeches, some of them seemed to think that the government has no part or lot to play in this matter, and some of them, however, seemed quite frankly to admit that it was great that the government was putting pressure on the social partners in this matter. I would remind you, however, that in September 2015, when the government itself announced that when it waives the requirement to cut overtime and Sunday allowances, it will be replaced by this holiday allowance cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u251	Mr President! This period ends this time in south-west Finland on the home directions of the Minister for Finance. Over the next few years, between 20,000 and 30,000 new jobs will be created in south-west Finland, perhaps in about ten years. This is what the shipping and car industry is doing, and much smaller industry is of course involved in metal and technology. Competitiveness certainly plays a major role in this vision of success, but there is a desire to ensure that this continues by talking about a bridge agreement, which probably refers to joint measures between the private and the public in relation to transport, education, training, research, the development of the university, all this that is constantly creating it — that is to say, a bridge agreement. Mr. Finance Minister, do you see that there is something more to learn from this in order to strengthen the Finnish economy across Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u252	Minister Orphan, five minutes. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u253	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski reminds us at regular intervals of an important issue, which is a good thing, which is that it is a question of extending the use of the tax number. As a shepherd, it is currently in the Tax Administration's report, which is to be assessed by the executive authorities, and as soon as it is hopefully received at the end of the year, then the Ministry of Finance will then have to draw conclusions from it and make any proposals. So this is the state of preparation for the moment. Until then, I assume that our authorities are doing a good job in ensuring that Finnish labour law is respected in Finnish workplaces and that the rules of Finnish working life are respected anyway. But still a few comments and then a little summary: Representative Skinneri raised an important issue, the promotion of Finnish exports. Well, it hasn't been too bad, because Finnish exports have started to grow very strongly at the end of 16 and the world market is being taken over. Here, too, we have seen where the strongest value for the euro can be found. Then improving the capacity, productivity and efficiency of export ports is absolutely essential. Oulu, now Kokkola and Vuosaari are the most important of our exports, and other bus projects have been and are also being considered. In addition, the internationalisation of SMEs will be supported, in particular Team Finland will be developed, so that much is done in this area. Representative Korhonen certainly asked about local government finances. It is good to agree that the government's actions do not undermine local government finances, but the local government economy in general is getting stronger because the government is generally taking good measures. In other words, the situation in the municipalities is better at the moment, and since the municipalities have a close fight for Finnish well-being services, such as quality education, there will then be better resources to deal with these matters. Then, as far as this income distribution and inequality is concerned, one more time: It is not only the fact that as many people as possible are in employment and are able to take care of themselves and their loved ones that is the key to an equal and good society. That is why work and its promotion in all its forms is a priority,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u258	Now to the list of speakers, and the maximum length of the speech is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u259	Mr President! I should also like to thank Mr Orpo for his good speeches in this debate. After all, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, we were in a situation where either we continue to wither in Finland, drift into the path of continuous cuts in well-being, or, another option, we are making a change in Finland. Today it can be said that this objective, the central objective, Finland's goal, has been achieved. Of course, the government's strategic programme — the reforms it contains — has been very important. The competitiveness pact is also important. It is worth quoting here from former Social Democratic Finance Ministers, including Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland. He has stated very clearly that there is no reason to underestimate the competitiveness pact. It has played an important role in Finland’s price competitiveness. It has created credibility and stability for the Finnish economy and investors, as we now see.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u264	Mr President! Finland’s economic situation has at last seen a clear turn for the better. In addition to construction and domestic consumption, exports have finally taken off. A more positive climate will boost investments that have been postponed in the past, and this will only strengthen the cycle of growth. Economic growth is estimated to be around 2.9% this year and more than 2% next year, and, most importantly, the employment rate has also been estimated to rise by more than 70% next year. However, our goal must be to reach the level of the other Nordic countries, i.e. the employment rate of around 75% and above. The Government's actions have guided Finland's growth path. Exports have been boosted not only by companies' own expertise, of course, but also by the fact that we have caught up with our competitors in terms of cost competitiveness. We can once again win market shares in international competition. Mr President! However, the change in the economic outlook in a more positive direction does not mean that we should suddenly abandon sound financial management, on the contrary. Public finances remain severely in deficit and we still have a lot of work to do to put an end to debt in the coming years. With the ageing of the population, a considerable number of people will disappear from the labour market from the beginning of the next decade, creating very strong pressure on the sustainability of our public finances. Our labour market, too, is still far too rigid to meet the challenges posed by the global competitive environment. Local agreements should be increased. There should therefore be no relaxation of expenditure control, contrary to what the opposition is proposing. Our central government debt will increase to EUR 110 billion next year. This debt will largely be borne by our children and future generations. It is our responsibility to do our best to finally curb the long period of debt after the 2008 economic crisis. The necessary structural reforms must also be brought to an end in order to maintain the competitiveness of our economy in the coming decades. Mr President! Reducing the tax burden on labour is a sensible economic policy solution in all cyclical situations. It strengthens employment and economic growth, and we still need both of them in Finland. The reduction in income tax can be compensated by shifting the tax focus towards consumption, disadvantage and environmental taxes, which is responsible for general expenditure discipline, and this has already been done, for example, with regard to tobacco tax. In the budget debate, the Government decided to reduce the amount of EUR 270 million to income tax for all income categories. In this way, the Government fulfilled the tax reductions attached to the Competitiveness Pact and maintained the objective of not tightening the taxation of any Finnish wage income during this parliamentary term. The opinion of the Coalition Party has been that it is always worthwhile to work hard, to work and to develop your own expertise. The government budget contains a number of measures to improve employment, in addition to those already decided. The active model of unemployment security and the facilitation of studying and entrepreneurship with unemployment security are steps in the right direction. I also believe that the increase in the unemployment benefit component from the current EUR 300 per month should be clarified. The Ministry of Finance already has calculations on how to raise the protective component to, for example, EUR 600 per month in a cost-neutral way. It is important that, even during unemployment, there should be at least some sort of access to employment. Mr President! It is also important to note that in Finland the taxation of earned income is already rising very sharply for the average wage and salary earners. There is far too little in the debate about the disadvantages of strict tax progression. For example, if a traditionalist who earns EUR 2400 per month or an early childhood education worker receives a salary increase of EUR 300, only a little over half, or EUR 164, will be left in his hands. Does this encourage the taking of responsibility and additional work? I don't think so. Finland cannot afford to price out of the market any kind of work. Currently, Akava statistics show that 9.5% of taxpayers pay 72% of government income taxes. I don't think we can consider this a fair burden-sharing. In the budget debate, the government decided to maintain for the time being, for example, the so-called solidarity tax, which is paid with monthly income of around EUR 6400. I hope that we will be able to return to this issue at the end of the reign and to withdraw these matters of solidarity tax. Mr President! On the opposition side, demands have been heard, inter alia, for increasing government spending and for the so-called allocation reserve. It would therefore be good to ask the opposition where this allocation will be if the state continues to incur EUR 3 billion next year. Now is not the time to start reckless consumption, but to continue on this path to responsible economic management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u265	Mr President! The state budget for next year has been made in a situation where our country's economy is finally showing clear signs of growth. After years of recession, there is a clear change of direction. The budget now provides for growth on the basis of fruit. It is a good thing that after many difficult years we can look to the future in a slightly brighter light. To date, pensioners, low-income families with children and public sector workers, for example, have undoubtedly borne the greatest responsibility for economic activity through preferential cuts, a competitiveness pact and increases in payments. The economy has been adjusted with a hard hand. Instead, family leave reform, among other things, is still waiting for its maker. The economic facts are the same for all governments. The differences in the budget are the result of policy. Politics is value choices, choices about what to invest in and where to reduce them. The overall picture of the budget is still focused on cuts. The present government has made a rather tough choice of values. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Finance, this budget leaves the lowest-income group almost EUR 40 out of disposable income, while the highest-income group in Finland receives more than EUR 400. That is to say, those who have to spend all their money on living costs will have to cope with lower incomes, and those who are already able to live economically well-secured lives will have more for worse times. This is not fair. It pisses the majority of Finns off, but it makes no sense to revive the economy. You should not believe in such a strong upswing that you forget who in this society is putting their money into circulation. Mr President! One of our most important social tasks is to increase equality, i.e. to reduce inequalities. On a global scale, Finland is a model example of how a low-income country can push into the world's top caste. The recipe for it has been training. In the future, Finland will only be able to cope with the high level of knowledge of the population. There will be a real need for further investment in education next year. But they're just Band-Aids. There will be 15 million more in vocational education and training, compared with 180 million in earlier years. The competence programme for young adults is coming to an end next year. It is in this way that the builders of our society who need the most support and of the best working age threaten to miss it and, in the worst case scenario, to fall into a spiral of exclusion. With cuts like this, we're only going to be gnawing at our own future. Reductions in the budget for equality in basic education will be made by EUR 25 million, but we are still far removed from the previous cuts in quality money. For example, an extension of compulsory education would be a sustainable way to improve Finland’s prospects for the future. It would increase employment and the conditions for growth in the long term. Thousands of young people are excluded from secondary education each year. We can't afford that. Extending compulsory education would ensure that each young person at least starts or participates in secondary education. Mr President! According to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, the policy of government cuts has increased income differentials. The main reasons for this are the cuts in Kela's benefits. A development that increases income disparities and increases inequality is a clear change in the previous income differential policy. The previous government also made major adjustments to balance public finances, but the aim was always to keep the lowest incomes involved. The indices of social benefits are now frozen throughout the Government term. The cumulative cuts over the years, including reductions in Kela's medical allowances and increases in customer fees, are among the most vulnerable. Mr President! The guiding principle of the Nordic welfare society must be that no one is left alone. When you cannot manage yourself, you can count on the availability of help and support. Now, however, we are seriously asking ourselves whether political decisions are going to break down a piece of our basic principles. People's trust in society and decision-makers must be maintained. The budget presented now seems to be missing the heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u266	Madam President! Finland’s economy is in a rapid growth phase. This year, Finland's GDP is projected to grow by around 3 per cent, which is clearly faster than last year. The growth of private consumption will continue with an increase in employment. It is also expected that next year economic growth will continue to be strong. Measured by almost all indicators, we are heading in the right direction. The government has therefore made the right decisions. In this speech, however, I will concentrate only on security and its funding in the budget. The military, the police, the protection police and the Border Guard are getting more funding. The budget will allocate EUR 12 million more money to the fight against terrorism. This is a significant sum and a mandatory increase in our overall security. For a long time, we have not lived in a bird’s home, even though someone could still imagine it. An additional EUR 9 million will be made available in the budget debate to increase equipment and equipment for police-requiring situations, improve operational performance and cybercrime performance, and EUR 0.5 million in the development of models of preventive action. 2.5 million more money will be made available to improve the operational performance of the protection police. This will be used, inter alia, for the acquisition of information on terrorism and extremism and for the supervision of target persons. You might say there's plenty of work to be done on this site around the world. EUR 7.9 million will be allocated to the Border Guard to improve internal security. This will be able to sustain the current activity very much, but will not be able to react to specific activities, such as large numbers of illegal border crossings. It would require additional funding and resources, and this, for example, has not been addressed by the Border Guard training levels. Unfortunately, one of the internal security operators, namely Customs, remains in the mope again. They will avoid next year's layoffs, but reforms and so forth will not be completed. Priority should be given to: As far as customs is concerned, you understand that the organisation is an internal security operator. Customs, therefore, is not just a producer of money but a producer of internal security. This must be taken into account in their funding in the future. The safety of each of us's daily lives begins with fire and rescue services and emergency centers. I think it is very important that EUR 265000 is now allocated to the training of emergency services and EUR 300000 to civilian crisis management to strengthen domestic capabilities. I believe that the usual fire and rescue aspect should be taken even more into account in the budget. The continuation of close cooperation between rescue services must also be ensured in each year's budget, preferably for the entire parliamentary term. I think it is very important because I have seen the disadvantages and benefits of this activity for several years now. It is very important that cross-border cooperation should not be disrupted at all, as at the same time the network of cooperation established during the two decades of cooperation will begin to decline. Breaks in cooperation, or even the end of it, have a crippling effect on the activities supporting the provision of rapid assistance. I welcome the fact that the government has also understood what is happening inside prisons, because security there is a matter for everyone, both the prisoners and everyone who works there. Some EUR 0.4 million will be allocated to the prevention of prison radicalisation. This will provide resources for the prevention of radicalisation in prisons and the identification of extremist activities. Additional funding of EUR 0.4 million will also improve the capacity of the prosecution services. This funding will increase the training of prosecutors to deal with terrorist offences and related serious crimes. Madam President! The previous government gave us quite a gift for the safety of tomorrow. The present government has taken note of and contributed significantly to improving our security over the past two years, and for that it is thanks to the entire government — including the Finns of Peru, because you were in the government for the first two years. One thing, but not least, is the continuation of the scrapping premium. This will also improve road safety. Much remains to be done to improve road safety. It does not only manage automatic traffic control by making it more efficient, i.e. buying new cameras, but also by developing traditional traffic control. Unfortunately, there will be a significant reduction in police traffic control and criminal investigation next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u267	Mr President! I was thinking of saying what feelings and thoughts came out of these three — or what four hours we sat there and had a lively conversation. Of course, not everyone gets the floor many times when we are all so eager to speak. I would like to answer in this way that the Finns of Peru think that we should collect taxes, but they should be reasonable and the work should be encouraged in such a way that the work is worth doing and also the other work. Taxation must not be too tight. But we think that, when the tax resources are there, we have a lot of room for manoeuvre as to how we implement that so-called internal solidarity, and how we actually take into account in decision-making that a person has very little money, is not enough money for medicines and other things, that he comes to the cash register and puts the coins into it — I too have paid his final purchase a few times when I met an old lady, when she simply did not have the money. There are cases like this. They are silent Finnish women, often small pensioners, who live in this situation. Then there were some speeches about Mickey Mouse’s archaics and all these kinds of things. It's a nice slap, and I'm sure you can get to the press with it if you want to, but I'm sure it's not funny about the low-income guy who thinks he's really having a hard time. Now that there are, for example, increases in housing costs through real estate taxes, through the increase in heating fuel to the oil bill in the detached houses, I'm sure it's not so funny to have such nice hoses that might be for sale. We may sometimes do well to remember that we are privileged here, we have a big salary, and sometimes it may be all right to visit those squares and squares to see what the ark really is. Then there's the other thing I want to go back to here: In fact, this summer was between us, and I noticed in this blue speech that a person was caught, our representative in Kankaanniemi, laughing that he had turned his coat. I would say this once and for all: how did someone who left the group leave their friends because of being able to satisfy the group and the center, abandon their friends and principles, but took our good ideas with them, dare to say that we have a coat turned? We are the People's Party of Finland, and I did not like the fact that Action Kankaanniemi was targeted. But then I'll take a little lift. In Question Time, I asked Orpo where the breakdown of immigration costs is. I received no response, and it was mentioned here how much we are spending on immigration, and next year we will also assume that we will have funding for 7,000 asylum seekers. I do not see any measures to limit it. Ok, someone like this that will be paid more money for that person to leave. As far as I'm concerned, it's a representative. Lehto raised a good point: how many Finns are paid to comply with a valid decision? Think, the Finn would say: I do not follow the decision. I'll give you 2,500. Follow me. This doesn't get people's sense of justice. I cannot understand why we are not seeking the right solutions both in Finland through border checks and in Europe. We would then have half a billion, a billion, depending on what the costs are now, when the cost calculations are not brought to us, even though they are promised in the Government Programme — and they are there at the request of the Finns of Finland — but they are not visible. Thank you, by the way, for the SDP. I noticed in their speech that they said in particular that they are working with everyone. True Finns cooperate with everyone absolutely on matters of fact, and we may disagree with and agree with each other, but I hope in that way respect that people had convictions, ideas, even if they were very different with your own, or even with an established culture of conversation, so let the word fly and of course let us stick to the context, because I think that in such discussions there are such ideas and pearls that we can get good ideas from there. In fact, I would also like to thank Ala-Nissila for taking a catch in the centre of our migration assistance, which the Finns of Finland have presented, and saying that it could be good for the problem of encounters, and in the past Minister Häkkänen has said on television that the Coalition Party will consider it. Now that there has been a green light from the centre and from the assembly, I hope that this migration allowance will now come into the toolbox of the problem. We're running out of time, and there's plenty of talk. We'll pick it up later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u268	Mr President! It is a happy news that Finland's economy is growing, and there have been positive signs of employment in recent times. That's a great thing. We are all happy about that. But this does not mean that there is no more work to be done in the Finnish economy, but on the contrary, we have a lot to do. We should strive for a higher employment rate so that the welfare state and its services can continue to be maintained. In these positive circumstances, the question is how the fruits of economic growth are evenly distributed and how the work, knowledge and international position of Finns will develop in the future. But what is the government doing? The Government will continue along the path it had previously chosen. During this period, it has cut huge sums from all levels of education, among other things, and has tried to patch them up with small patches now in this budget for next year. Among other things, the government has decided that it makes more sense to invest money in inefficient and market-distorting business subsidies, polluting environmentally harmful subsidies, rather than investing our common money in the future's talents and young generation. Mr President! Last night, Prime Minister. Mr Sipilä said at an information conference on the creation of a cutting-edge unit in economics that he has seen the importance of research-based information. That's great, but if that's the case, why isn't it shown in the government budget? A good educational path supports young people in their growth and learning tasks and prevents young people from becoming marginalised and increases access to higher education. During this period, the Government has operated on subjective day care law, vocational education, universities and research, among other things. For example, lowering early childhood education fees is a great thing, but the overall picture is very negative. Mr President! According to the Ministry of Finance's own estimate, when the government's budget comes to fruition, the low incomes are the most deprived and the rich get rich. According to the VM, the government budget cuts the lowest income by EUR 37 per year and gives the richest approximately EUR 400. This is a pretty rough choice of values. When much has been said about preventing inequality, this does not really fit into the picture. We Greens would do something different. We have also brought up a number of ways today. We would invest in higher education, research, basic education, early childhood education. We want to be those who still believe that anyone in this country can become a doctor, for example. Mr President! Finland’s economy needs reform, as the big reforms are still ongoing. It has been amazing to see how billions of business subsidies have still not been reduced, even though there are researched data on them. The money that is now going to be spent could be invested in education, for example, in Finland’s future, in knowledge and thus in the long-term improvement of the economy. We also need a change in working life so that we can meet the needs of changing working life and increase the employment rate. The more Finns work, the more tax revenue we have and the more solid is the foundation of our welfare state. Reforming family leave is one of the main measures to improve the labour market position of women and to compensate for the child’s care responsibilities. We hope that the government will be able to move forward on this issue by means of ambitious measures. That's what we've been waiting a long time for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u269	Madam President! The government's policy has hit the low incomes the most. This was news after the budget debate, but it should not be news to anyone who has followed the debate on the economic policy of the current government over the last two and a half years. In fact, this is what the Left Alliance has been telling budget after budget since the government programme. This estimate has been based on the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service. The government has not done its own work, has not reduced the impact of the budget on poverty, the impact of the budget on income differentials. The opposition has been forced to do so time and again by ordering calculations from an impartial parliamentary information service. But it is a good thing that, after this calculation commissioned by the last left-wing union, Prime Minister Sipilä also woke up and said that it is true that this has happened, that is to say that politics has hit the lowest incomes most. But it is not the law of nature that this has happened. This is not a natural law; it is a question of conscious political decisions. And the first conscious political decision was to make an adjustment of EUR 4 billion by cutting off the basic security of the low-income and cutting back on education and services. Yesterday, when this new economic policy research centre was announced, Prime Minister Sipilä said that he understood and learned the importance of research with this task. Nevertheless, both the Prime Minister and many representatives of the government parties have tried to reverse the research results of the Parliamentary Information Service and they say that they have been miscalculated from the Parliamentary Information Service. Well, fortunately, the Ministry of Finance has now woken up and made its own calculations and the result is exactly the same as the result of the parliamentary information service. And the big question is, why are these calculations only being made now? Why have they not been made before all the decisions taken by this government? I myself served as a minister for three years on the board of Katainen. Before each spending limits argument, before each budget argument, we made an assessment of the distribution effects, or we made it, and we made decisions on that basis. We made a conscious policy in which we wanted to balance income differences with tax policy and social security, and we also wanted to tackle poverty. And this is what we did. The previous government made adjustments worth more than EUR 6 billion. This government has made only $4 billion worth of adjustments. Despite these adjustments during the previous government, poverty fell and income differentials narrowed. And now we have to take into account what we are talking about here: there are two types of growth in income differentials. There is a decision-making increase in income differentials and then there is one that takes place, for example, as employment improves, as wages rise. What the Parliamentary Information Service has studied is precisely the resultant increase in income differentials. In other words, the decisions that have led to the cuts in index freezes and even cuts in national pensions, study aid, unemployment benefit, sickness allowance mean that people with low incomes have lost less and at the same time tax reductions have been targeted at the most high incomes, the 8th and 9th income decile. Madam President! This line needs to be changed now. This isn't a sustainable line. This is not a fair line, and this is not a line that keeps Finnish society united. Now that the economy is for the better, it should be reflected in the budget at the latest. But what is more, according to the VM's calculations, next year's budget will cut the poorest by EUR 37 and, at the same time, give the most high-income people EUR 400. Is this a fair policy? Certainly no one thinks so, so what we in this Parliament have to do with the power that we have been given: to correct this budget, to make it economically fair, and that correction is based on the fact that index freezes are cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u270	Värderade Talman! Det är en alldeles förträfflig sak att economist äntligen växer. Det auri har vi väntat på i nästan tio år sedan finanskrisen 2008-2009, på siffror som pekar på plus, på kurvor som går uppåt. Det är en alldeles utmärkt sak. Egentligen är det fullstandigt egalt vems förtjänst det är att den ekonomiska tillväxten äntligen är ox. Det viktigaste är att den är ox. Vi har full fart inom byggnadssektorn, den inhemska consumtionen går bra, exporten drar. Vi har en ganska gynsam situation just nu. Det finns också regionala variationer och variant där tillväxten till och med för tilfället går — man kände nästan säga — lite för bra. Egentliga Finland med Åbovarvet och bilfabriken i Nystad har arbetskraftsbrist. Vi har alltså den koh matchingsproblematiken där utbudet på arbetskraft och efterfrågan på utbildad arbetskraft inte öts. Här hoppas jag att utredningsman Esko Ahos förslag tas på allvar av regeringen och att ord också blir handling. I economisska, gynsamma tider är det ju så att det går bra för allt flera, och det är en god sak. Men vi ska också komma ihåg att alla inte ens i ekonomiskt goda tider hittar tillväxtens frukter på sin tallrik, det kan vara att tallriken förblir tom. Och då är det viktigt att man fortsättingsvis satsar på att töda nya sysselsättningsåtgärder i syfte att skapa fler nya jobb. Som vi vet är en arbetsplats den allra basta sociala trygghten. Det är alltså viktigt att vi har en ambitios sysselsättningspolitik. Vi har fortsättingsvis ett alldeles för lågt sysselsättningsläge, sysselsättningsgrad: 69 percent. Vi brode nå upp till en nordisk nivå, eller en till en österbottnik nivå där man snuddar vid 75 percent. På Åland har man till och 82 percent. Det finns alltså best practices, goda exempel på hur man kan göra det rauta tack vare företagsamheten, också tack vare förebyggande åtgärder som stöder ett sunt arbetsklimat, arbetshälsa och god condition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u271	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Wallin for her good constructive speech. I fully agree that corporate taxation, for example, is a very important tool in how Finnish society is managed, and then, of course, the competitiveness that companies have in order to be able to employ employees. The representative asked how the government, or we representatives of the government parties, would deal with the solidarity tax. We see that, in this economic situation, it was necessary, including a fair solution, but of course it is temporary, as you mentioned. Such taxation, I believe, can not be more long-term than such a temporary tax, even on constitutional aspects. But what we need to do is to reduce the overall tax rate, and for the first time next year, after the recession, it will become lighter, and that, that is to say, to reduce the overall tax rate, must be continued. Yes, the blue line, and I hope the government's line too, is that the overall tax rate will be reduced — not only to the current level, but to the point where it will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u272	Madam President! In next year's budget, the Christian Democrats, as expectations, outlined government contributions to employment, to support entrepreneurship, to facilitate the situation of families with children and pensioners, and to strengthen internal security. Despite economic growth, we believe that the balancing of central government finances should remain at the heart of the budget. The government has acted in many respects according to our policies, but, unfortunately, due to previous major cuts, some of the investments are mainly patching up. There has also been a lively debate here on the distribution effects of the budget, and quite rightly, as Mr Arhinmäki mentioned earlier, these index freezes, which continue until 2019 and particularly affect many basic benefits, are the main reason for this distribution of income and its distortion. The Christian Democrats have already seen this in their alternative budget for last year, and the main contribution there was precisely because we did not want these index freezes to happen, and in that sense we could say that we were wise from afar a year ago and we saw the way in which these index freezes will affect the economic situation of the most vulnerable people. Economic growth must be able to become new jobs. There is a sectoral and regional mismatch in the labour market. For example, the shortage of metalmen and machine operators trained in my region, Upper Savo, is already threatening deliveries. It is very difficult to get young people in this sector, especially women. The growth rate of Upper Savo and, perhaps more generally, North Savo is now at the same rate as in south-west Finland – and of course this may be where you can hand out Yle's supplier, who felt that the Finns do not know where Iisalmi is, that you should look at the stock exchange lists: Ponsse, Olvia, Genelec, Normet and other top names of the Finnish export industry can be found in that area. Government proposals to enable studies to be made with unemployment benefit and to promote business start-ups are certainly worth experimenting with, and conversion training for those with higher education is still needed, as academic unemployment torments many people. As far as education is concerned, almost every level of education is given something in the budget, but the investments are small compared to previous cuts, such as the 25 million placement of vocational education and training, which does not in any way fully compensate for the 190 million cuts. It may still be worth noting that the 25 million is actually coming from there from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and moving to that Ministry of Education, which is actually not new money. If the Minister for Education had been here, I would have liked to have been more specific about this. But we will have the opportunity to have these targeted debates later. With 270 million tax carrots, the government is also trying to pave the way for wage moderation, and that is very important, because emerging economic growth and a positive trend in employment is overshadowed by fear of a break in labour market peace. There is a need for restraint, for consideration, both on the part of employees and employers, and for business managers to set an example here, and not to imagine that employees will be content with wage moderation if, at the same time, managers increase their own over-compensation and benefits. Last year, the Christian Democrats pushed the lower limit of the solidarity tax by a couple of tonnes lower than what the government is now deciding to continue. An increase in the alcohol tax is good, but it would be even better if the government, in addition to this unfortunate reform, were to abandon the sale of soda and four-cells. But the biggest disappointment in the budget is the treatment of families with children. I don't know why, but despite the family minister, housing-guilty families seem to be in Sipilä's government's teeth all the time. The reduction in the interest rate on mortgages, the increase in property tax, the abolition of the child tax deduction on income tax are all very significant disadvantages for many families with children. The orphan promised in the budget information that next year no one's taxation would increase. However, the government does not intend to continue to reduce taxation on children, so the taxation of families with children with low and middle incomes will increase, i.e. as the only group of the population. Child tax deduction was created during the last government term at the request of KD. The government's EUR 5 per month for single parents means EUR 240 per year in a family of four children, while at the same time it is exported EUR 400 in the form of a child allowance. For them too, therefore, a loss of EUR 160, for others only tax evasion. Of course, the reduction in day care fees is a good thing, but these pros and cons do not necessarily hit the same family. Thus, something is compensated, but more are known only to raise taxes. Mr President! Time is running out, and there are still a number of important issues that need to be covered, but then we will continue with these detailed discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u273	Madam President! Stefan Wallin, who spoke earlier, can only agree with the economic thinking of economic policy. It is the right thing to do, and it is in that direction that economic policy has been guided in general. However, the way Mr Arhinmäki explained the policy of the then Katainen government over the past three years cannot, of course, agree. It is actually amazing that Katainen, a member of the Coalition Party, — of course that range of government was so wide — could lead a ship of economic policy in a foreign direction. As Mr Arhinmäki said, everyone was always divided as needed, evenly, nobody was unhappy, and 6 billion were still being treated for adjustment. But he missed one important point: for three years each year, 10 billion loans were taken out. It was very fun to conduct economic policy and was leading Finland on the road to Greece. In the spring this was revealed to the Finnish people in a very spectacular way, when the government finally went completely crazy itself, and led to an election victory in the centre, which explained that the economy must end up in this way, and that the debt-taking process must be taken very seriously and employment must start. They have been the core work of this government and, as a group, we have succeeded in giving the government good support and success during this regime's term of office. It is very good that, after the elections, the party chairmen Sipilä, Stubb and Soini found a common line and have firmly pursued that common policy — with small changes of crew and other things — to this day. We are on the right track: there has been a significant reduction in debt, by several billions, and employment has risen to an employment rate that already exceeds 70% and unemployment is seeking to fall below the 8% threshold. It's the right way. Prime Minister Sipilä explained when we set out to drive this government forward, that this road is painful, that everyone has to take and that it is not easy to continue this work. For two years, we will see, then it will be two easier years, even a little more of a year of good work, when we will then be able to even out what was unfairly done at this stage of surgery. Yes, I understand the matter of those who are underprivileged and underprivileged, and there have now been some adjustments, but it has to be admitted that everyone has gone, and who has less, to take this adjustment as the most painful. However, on the line which I am about to make here, I will, of course, take a more detailed speech on the subject of the Section for Employment and the Economy which I chair next week. Now, in this well-off development, the share of exports has become more diversified, we have been able to increase in the broad sector and in such a way that exports have indeed increased and are rising moderately sharply all the time, and it is expected that this increase will continue to continue with expansion and in different sectors. At the same time, as I have already said about unemployment, new problems are beginning to arise, where the most difficult issue is how to get work suitable for all Finns. Obviously it is true that the so-called enthusiasm for work has decreased in Finns. At least we live in such a social relationship at the moment that we are able to deal with the most vulnerable person, so, on the big front, it also causes some slackness — there is not so much time to go to your own family, to support yourself. There is already a problem of confrontation that we have a shortage of skilled labour in many sectors in this country. And given the particular desire to target youth unemployment, education and people's enthusiasm and contact on the youth front are not entirely successful at the moment, and Minister Lindström and the Council of State have a lot of work ahead of them. As I mentioned at the outset, this type of economic policy, which became dominant in the former government, has been a necessity, it was necessary to bring about its transformation. It also opened up the regional disparities that have arisen. At the moment, when we compare the enormous success of Varsinais-Suomi with the modest growth rate in a number of regions, it is difficult to find ways to tackle the problem at regional level, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u276	Mr President! I think Mr Juhantalo has made such a good speech that if you want me to give you two minutes, you can come back here again. Mr President! We are holding a debate on the state budget next year in an interesting situation. The economy is growing rapidly, and growth is wide-ranging. The news of the world economy and, in particular, of Europe is also positive. Exports are improving, and Finnish expertise is selling around the world. Enterprises and households have confidence in the future, and most importantly: employment and productivity are also on the rise and long-term unemployment is on the decline. The change is great compared to the past decade, and in the summer we have already heard proposals for what this good growth should be used for, the allocation of resources that we have heard. On the other hand, many economic concerns remain. While more favourable economic development increases tax revenues and reduces unemployment expenditure, indebtedness of public finances, and especially of central government finances, continues. The inevitable ageing of the population will increase public expenditure and slow the deficit down by the 2020s at the latest. There will therefore be difficult times if the economic base is not corrected or if the resilience of the economy is strengthened. The most urgent measures are measures to permanently increase the employment rate in Finland that is lower than in other Nordic countries. Mr President! How, then, has the government succeeded in its budget line and in its budget for next year? As a rule, well, even if more could have been done. The temptations brought about by growth do not create a risk of division, but a tight line of expenditure is maintained. It will ensure that the core objective of the Government Programme on the fold of debt in relation to GDP during the parliamentary term is realised. However, further efforts are needed to achieve the second objective, i.e. to end living in debt by the year 21. There is also concern about the continuation of economic growth. The main instrument here is a reduction of EUR 270 million in income tax for all income categories. Yet here too there is still work to be done with too much tax progress. We do not want Finland, where the tax authorities take almost half of the average wage increase of a Finnish who earns about EUR 2,400 a month. The conditions for increasing the employment rate will also be strengthened. The Government will abolish early childhood education fees from 6,700 families and start work on family leave reform with the aim of improving the labour market status and employment rate of women. Yet, especially in these structural reforms, the level of ambition must be higher. In order for our employment rate to reach the 72% agreed in the Government Programme, we need more local agreement and a rapid reform of the social security system in addition to the reform of family leave. Mr President! For my own province, Central Finland, the budget also includes one bitter but familiar disappointment. This is the Kirri-Tikkakoski motorway project, which, once again, did not receive the necessary funding from the LVM framework. It is gratifying that another or two new transport projects will be planned next summer. Instead of making accusations, we must now roll up the sleeves and make sure that this project, which is important to Finland as a whole, is one of these selected new targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u277	Madam President! Government decisions increase income differentials. Small increases in good targets, such as education and social security, are small compared to permanent cuts. New cuts will also be made to the same targets next year, for example in the form of index freezes previously decided on. Structural reforms and future contributions supporting employment were not made, such as the extension of compulsory education. Madam President! It is good that the government has woken up and invested 17 million in internal security in addition to previous decisions. What is worrying about this proposal is that all the cutting decisions of previous years are still valid. As regards social security investments in particular, it should be noted that they are likely to be smaller in scale than index freezes again next year, which will cut the purchasing power of most benefits by about 1 percentage point. The government will make cuts of nearly EUR 4 billion, which will focus on social security and education, while at the same time significantly reducing taxes. Tax reductions are almost entirely directed at income tax, including new reductions targeted at government background groups, such as entrepreneurship reduction, forest gifts, lower taxes on large inheritances and so on. The policy pursued has been a source of income inequality. During the previous government term, public finances were more adapted, but the policy of decision-making still narrowed the income gap. The Government's decision-making changes to taxation and social benefits have increased disposable income in the highest income groups. In groups with less than average income, policy-making has cut disposable income. The government’s policy has thus been a source of income inequality and thus a clear departure from the previous government. The government can rightly be criticised for not starting structural reforms suitable for the upturn period, which would increase employment and thus improve the budgetary situation in the longer term. 1 percentage point will increase employment and improve public finances by around 800 million. In other words, ensuring the sustainability of public finances can only be achieved in a sustainable way if employment is achieved in a structural way. The only sustainable way to improve the prospects would be to make structural reforms in support of employment. In addition to the reform of family leave, the relevant education, in particular the extension of compulsory education, will contribute to research and development and the reform of early childhood education. Such reforms would also increase people's faith in the future, confidence in future and employment and prevent exclusion. Madam President! The growth potential of exports is supported by improved global demand and improved cost competitiveness of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u280	Madam President! Representative Kymäläinen longed for the situation of the last term of government. At the time, the economy collapsed in this country, unemployment got worse and the situation was very different. We were also in the government at the time, of course, by means of a coalition, but now the meeting has the portfolio of the Minister of Finance and now the measures have produced results: the economy is growing, unemployment is falling, employment is improving. These are measures that help everyone in Finland. Mr Kymäläinen's speech gave the impression that the Social Democrats are not in favour of reducing the tax burden on labour. I personally believe that the average average income Finns appreciate that their purchasing power is taken care of, and also that families with children are reduced in early childhood education fees, that there will be a single parent increase, that there will be a family increase, that free early childhood education will be tried out and that there will be an exceptional amount of family leave reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u281	Mr President! In this regard, the representative pointed out that the government's background groups would include, for example, entrepreneurs through entrepreneurship reduction. Well, I readily admit that for this government, entrepreneurs are an important group that we want to support in order to achieve employment growth in order to generate more tax revenues. The entrepreneur deduction has been made, the payment-based value added tax and, for example, the household allowance has been increased — these are good things the government has done. The opposition also raises the fact that Finland's economy is now being driven by the growth of the global economy. Well, this is only a half-truth. Without these stimulus measures and the measures that are involved in the economy and what the government has done, Finland should not have this fruit of growth but could continue to be in recession. And with regard to this famous watermelon, which is indeed green and red on the inside, it would not be able to afford that famous lipapakkin in this left-wing opposition policy. Yes, we also need butter on bread for people and hardworking workers. That's the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u282	One last comment, Mr Rossi and Mr Kymäläinen, and then it is the Prime Minister's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u283	Madam President! Mr Kymäläinen and Mr Arhinmäki previously referred to these income differences issues, which, however, when we look at statistics and future ones, are extremely minimalist. Of course, how the economy develops will also determine how income develops. But when you look at the measures taken during the previous term of government, you cut out the central government shares of municipalities, and those central government cuts concerned education, day-care centres, social services — all the basic services that municipalities organise. So, in a way, the trick was to skip the responsibility to the municipalities to make cuts there, and are those not reflected in these income differential calculations? All in all, this should be remembered now when we look at the functioning of the Sipilä Government and the current government. We act openly, we do not pass on responsibility to others, the municipal economy has also been strengthened and economic growth will also allow us to take into account the affairs of people with low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u284	Madam President! Then let's talk about this moment and your decisions. Indeed, the government’s abolition of child allowance from a family of two children and two adults who earn EUR 2000 will cut EUR 200, not to mention holiday allowance cuts, which very often affect families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u287	It is now 3 p.m., and according to the programme, Prime Minister Sipilä will now be given a ten-minute speech, and we will see if it will make a debut. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u288	Madam President! Indeed, we went to this August budget debate in a completely different mood than we did two years ago. Finland had then, two years ago, voted in favour of change, and with the support of the people's mandate, we have now changed Finland's direction. In two years, the economy has reached a path of growth in line with our objectives, and public finances and employment will improve according to plan. Further action is needed to raise the employment rate to the level required for the long-term sustainability of public finances. We now have about 50,000 unemployed job seekers less than a year ago. Our target is a 72% employment rate. The forecast for 2019 is now close to 71 per cent, but even during the next government term we need a similar jump to employment development, at least to the point of 75 per cent. Growth must belong to everyone. Too many still lack work and hope for the future. As many people as possible have to get a job. Youth unemployment is most expensive for society, both humanly and economically. That is what we took up with the comprehensive package of measures by allocating 30 million more money to it. We will also increase the starting points for vocational training in those sectors where there is a need for labour. Unemployment benefit will be made more active as studies with unemployment benefit are facilitated, and it will also make it easier to start a business with unemployment benefit. Mr President! There are many factors behind the good employment performance. We have respected wage moderation and efforts have been made to improve productivity in companies. However, the most important factor is the competitiveness pact. We must be able to talk about that in this Chamber, too, honestly and openly. I can assure you that I have received angry feedback from public sector workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u297	If there are desires to use the answers now, it is possible. Please sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u298	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, on this issue of holiday money, I must say that today's balance is that both the Minister of Finance Orpo and Prime Minister Sipilä are skimming out of responsibility like a worm from a hook. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u301	Mr President! It's really sad that the SDP has so little food. We would have expected our own proposals, which would have created economic growth and better employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u304	Mr President! It is great that the economy is growing and employment is improving. That is what we can all be happy and satisfied about in this Chamber. Even where growth has now begun, it does not matter when it moves forward. Let us learn from what has now been done in these matters to make things right. But, Prime Minister, when you spoke just now about the fact that unemployment has subsided and 50,000 people have got out of the yoke of inequality, that is also a great thing. However, from the point of view of inequality, the pensioners who come in there are low-income pensioners who are on a small earnings-related pension, who have worked for decades and are moving on to a pension so small that now the unequal measures taken by this government in relation to the reduction of the exclusivity of medicines and the increase in the various contributions will have an effect on these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u305	Madam President! I think that the Prime Minister's proposal and the refined assessment of the way in which certain economic and political measures affect, for example through employment, is a good one, because we think far too much about static figures here. There are at least some estimates, there were good practical figures on how they work in practice. I would have asked the Prime Minister: I think this development should continue. It would probably also have to be estimated now that we would gradually be able to get into a structure that would allow labour taxation to fall — now nothing but an increase — or perhaps we would be able to make structures that would allow the taxation of entrepreneurs to be rationalised and calculated that it would be better to try. I would have asked: could not the evaluation of such figures in a certain way be a good addition to these measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u306	Mr President! I am not at all surprised that the Prime Minister has received a lot of feedback on the competitiveness pact, and it is indeed gratifying that there has now been a wider debate in this Chamber on the appropriateness and inequality of this agreement. One of the main problems with this cut in holiday money is that it treats the various categories of workers unfairly. That is why the public sector workers are wondering why it is precisely their holiday money that needs to be cut when other workers are not treated in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u309	Madam President! Looks like we're continuing the conversation about the holiday money cut. As has been revealed here, it was not a government decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u315	Mr President! The economic situation has improved. Your turn has happened, and it is excellent, we are all very pleased about it. This is because the economy in Europe, which is the main market in Finland, has improved. This is quite true, but when we look at these figures, there is not much to celebrate, because growth will continue to be low in the years to come. We're spinning around 1%, up to two growth rates. This raises the question of how Finland prepares for this period of low growth, how we create the conditions for sustainable economic growth. [Right : Cutbacks on benefits! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u316	Madam President! I have now followed this debate with some confusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u321	Madam President! I must say that Mr Honkonen has now taken the words out of his mouth, and I am very confused. Is it not, Prime Minister, that here the calculations of both the Ministry of Finance and Parliament's information service show that income differentials are now increasing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u324	Mr Viitanen seems very confused once and for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u330	President! Since this morning, the kiky deal has been like a curse word, but it has meant something. It has already been pointed out that the President of the Bank of Finland, Mr Liikanen, has said that the measures of the Kiki Agreement are being dismantled and, as a result, we are largely on a growth path. It has been suggested here by the opposition that growth is due to developments in Europe. The rise has taken place in Europe years ago, why not now in Finland? In the past, the Social Democrats have even argued that the growth is due to the fact that the measures taken by the last government are now beginning to bite. Yes, I must say that we are on a good path, but now that the employment situation is improving, the key issue for the future is, in my opinion, not only to get work for highly skilled people, but also for those with lower education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u331	Madam President! In 2009, there was a historic collapse in gross domestic product, about 8 per cent. At the time, the Prime Minister was from the city centre and the Minister for Finance from the meeting. Does this Chamber now believe that the two parties are responsible for the collapse of 2009 and that there was nothing to do with the European economy? If that is the case, then, with good conscience, one may say that this 3% increase is due only to the work of the two parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u337	Mr President! I am well aware that the debate on income differentials is very important, but when it comes to families with children and children, I believe that the question of fate is how to guarantee and ensure in the future that our primary school provides equal conditions for all children. We have seen for quite a long time the development in which the family’s background is reflected in the learning outcomes of children. This, ladies and gentlemen, and the government in particular, is a matter of fate for this nation as a whole, how to get the school again to provide equal conditions for all children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u338	Madam President! There has been a very good debate here on the distribution effects of the budget and also on the growth of income differentials during economic growth. It is clear that when the economy grows, the people who work there will enjoy the fruits of economic growth, but instead the people who rely on basic benefits — pensioners, students, such as those who depend on sickness allowance — will need political decisions in order to enjoy economic growth. And unfortunately, one of the main reasons why this increase in income differentials is taking place has been index freezes, and these are not being cancelled by the government. In other words, until 2019, index freezes will have an impact. Some EUR 70 million has been calculated for child supplements, EUR 60 million for national pensions, which means that the most important thing would be to intervene in these index freezes. Last year, when the Christian Democrats made the alternative budget for this year, we already found that this is the thing that weakens the lives of the most disadvantaged people, and I wonder if you would be prepared in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u339	Madam President! Mr Essayah, you forget that the government's aim is also to fold debt and to achieve that Finland will not become more indebted and that we will also be able to reduce debt. Consequently, economic growth must also be taken into our society in such a way that we are able to carry out that deleveraging and deleveraging process. This is not an easy way in this respect. When the government started, this has not been a four-year project, this is certainly an eight-year and ten-year project to bring the Finnish economy to a sustainable career. In this sense, this too must be borne in mind overall. Thank you, by the way, to the Prime Minister for his excellent report, which also relates to the compensation for holiday money and taxation, and also to this issue of inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u342	Mr President! There has been a good debate today on how inequalities are on the increase. It is good that the Prime Minister has said this himself. I very much hope that this budget will have been even more forceful in dealing with this. We are now reducing the tax burden on labour. It is in itself a good thing, especially to reduce the tax burden on low-income workers, but it excludes those people who live on mere benefits. It would therefore also be necessary to increase the basic deduction of municipal tax. It would help those people who don't have any work income. We know that these are the strictest. From the beginning of the week it was reported how some people are no longer able to pay their hospital and health centre fees, and the number of them has increased. It is a direct consequence of government policy: the ownership of medicines and sick trips has been increased and basic security has been reduced and payments have been increased. This is the group of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u343	Madam President! Certainly it is true that government action alone has not been here, but we were much behind the economic growth of the EU and the rest of the world and needed to work to catch up with this growth of others. As part of these activities, therefore, workers, employers and social partners concluded a competitiveness pact in which fixed-term holiday payments were cut. The fact that only the Left Alliance was opposed to the Kiki agreement has already been proven several times today in this Chamber. It was supported by the Social Democrats and also by the Greens, as has been pointed out in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u346	Mr President! It is good that attention should be paid to the situation of families with children, because, in fact, the government's impact on the income of families with children leads to families with children with particularly low incomes actually paying part of this bill, so that injustice in the distribution of income from these groups actually increases next year, and that is why it makes sense for the government to review the line in this respect. I was delighted today that a group speech in the centre said that growth belongs to everyone. We have been on both this message and the message to keep everyone involved, all of this for two and a half years on the move. Now, however, inequality is growing, and the Prime Minister also admits it in his own speech. But there's nothing to do. You would now have the opportunity to correct this movement and make sure that growth belongs to everyone. An example could be that, as Prime Minister, you would now consider the refund of the holiday allowance which was opposed to this convention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u349	Mr President! There is a consensus here that there is growth and that growth belongs to everyone, but how to create the conditions for that growth can be achieved we are already in complete disagreement. The reason why Finland’s economy is growing is because Finnish companies have been able to take over new markets and have received more orders. This is due to the fact that Finland has been able to carry out structural reforms that have improved competitiveness in Finland. This is the only way to improve the position of people who depend on transfers or small pensions, regardless of what kind of governments exist. That is why this budget guarantees that more and more Finns will continue to be able to participate in the work, pay taxes, and thus strengthen the state finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u350	Madam President! It was absolutely outrageous that only public sector employees had their holiday money cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u355	Mr President! Congressman Kankaanniemi, it is important now to remember how this whole story went forward. So this is where the law was enforced, the government brought the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u358	Mr President! In my opinion, the government has done a good job, and for that I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister in particular. This Kikiy agreement has been good in the sense that it has restored Finland's competitiveness. And Mr Tuppurainen was absolutely right that the current growth and good situation in Finland is due to a well-run economy in the world. In particular, the euro area is doing well and it is supported by the European Central Bank with a monthly purchase of EUR 60 billion. We should be pleased about this. But if we had not made these kiky solutions, Finland's exports and employment would not be in this condition. I therefore propose to the Prime Minister that we take a closer look at the current account. In 2002, the current account in Finland was EUR 12 billion positive and fell by EUR 17 billion. Someone has to wake up here to make money, too, because you can't share money unless someone does. This current account is now slightly positive in July, but more attention should be paid to this, as the net external debt will not decrease until the current account is well on top of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u359	Mr President! Mr Nylander was quite right that the question of fate is that we should take care of the children and ensure that we have an equal school. Therefore, as a responsible opposition party and also as a constructive opposition party, the RKP wants to continue to influence the government to do a little more. It's a good start, but it's gonna take more than that. It is also right that we should now invest in the single parent allowance. It is right that there should be a small increase, but here too we could go further. Here, too, the link between income support and the single parent race could be broken. Now the situation is that if a single parent receives income support, he will not benefit from the single parent’s increase, that is, the child supplementation, at all. This is not right, and it should also be dismantled. But then to this big picture of the economy. What is the government’s view of this sustainability gap? How do we close it? Can we get an answer to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u360	Madam President! Finland is typically a country whose well-being depends on whether our export industry is in good condition. The figures of the Finnish export industry have grown at a really good rate, and there is clearly a high level of recruitment of new workers in ports today. Large investments are already visible in Finnish society. The forest industry, the chemical industry, the metal industry, the ict sector, all main industries of the industry have strong growth in Finland. This is what Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland, said on September 8, last Friday. In his presentation in the small-scale Parliament's auditorium — an excellent presentation, and I am very sad that the leaders of the demars and other opposition there were shining by their absence. Apparently, you have some misinformation about its background. But Erkki There's too much you should have heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u363	Mr President! We can go over this holiday money thing all the time, but it's black and white.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u366	President! I wonder how the vote of the Social Democrats and, in particular, of Mr Lindtman on the clock has changed. It is now required that this holiday money be corrected. You have said in the past that it is better for the government not to interfere in labour market matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u368	Mr President! That's right. The government was the one who, in an unprecedented way, took the power to run these special cuts, put forward a bill that would, in addition to holiday allowance cuts, set a ceiling on how the benefits of employment could be agreed upon and sent it forward to statements. The government took over the power to run this special surgery. Mr Kivelä, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Orpo, you also have the power to withdraw. Let's shake hands: let's include teachers and nurses in this growth, cancel their holiday money cut together. Fix this decision, put the heart right in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u369	Madam President! The competitiveness pact itself was, of course, a positive thing for Finland, for Finland, for Finland, for the country. Who's denying it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u374	Mr President! After all, the ultimate purpose of this competitiveness pact was to carry out a massive transfer of income to Finnish business. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] It is true that the Left Alliance has been critical of this agreement since the beginning. We do not believe that Finland will succeed in the wage race. If you look at how labour costs have developed in other European countries, it is clear that this alleged price competitiveness gap would also have been remedied without such drastic wage reductions, which are very likely now to lead to compensation requirements in the autumn labour market round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u375	Mr President! Finland is really an export-driven country, and we are not pulling ourselves out of the hair, but we have to export. I think the theme "growth belongs to everyone" is an excellent theme. In the OECD, Ma-ri Kiviniemi, who runs this block, speaks of inclusive growth. The Bank of Finland has also studied inclusive economic growth. I think it is a good term, and I understand that this is what the Sipilä Government is trying to do, to involve people in economic growth, to involve them in the work and to involve them in their own contribution. I very much welcome the fact that the government has an overall reform of social security and that you are also working on a road map of taxation, which will look at the future challenges of taxation, work and business taxation. Is it not, Prime Minister, that these contribute to enabling us to take forward this inclusive economic growth in Finland and all Finns are rising, the tide is raising all ships?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u376	Madam President! Yes, the average viewer will be perplexed over and over and over again by the way these partialities make the conversation sound even more wonderful. The Prime Minister noted that the total amount of tax solutions for the holiday allowance cut for public workers, the kiky solutions made, is EUR 4 plus for the worker who earns EUR 2500.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u383	Mr President! Since we all agree here that holiday allowance cuts are unfair, now is probably a good time to cancel them as well. But I'm really worried about poor elderly people. There is a real shortage among them at the moment, their money is no longer enough for human life. While the government is admiring this increase in the guarantee pension, on the other hand, index freezes, weakening social benefits, reductions in medical benefits and various increases in contributions take the benefits of this guarantee pension to the negative side. Too many pensioners tell me that they have to choose between food and medicine, and more and more pensioners are even on the breadline. What am I to say to these Finnish builders, do I say that just wait calmly for the results of Juho Saare's working group?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u384	Mr President! In addition to this debate, one might ask what kind of Finland we are leaving for future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u387	Irade the Talman! At the beginning of this day, Mr Jokinen said that structural reforms have largely failed, and that is unfortunately the case. Fortunately, however, the international economy is pulling. It has now been happily observed that the reform of family leave is progressing. I hope that, let's say, the framework conditions are ambitious. On the other hand, the regional reform would have to be put on the bench. Its consequences are not likely to be beneficial for this whole. Minister Orpo was talking about climate and development aid, and these are essentially linked. During the previous government, where the Coalition Party was present, the revenues from emissions trading were directed to climate work, development work, and this was a very fine way to link emissions directly to those most affected by them. This government, however, changed this principle. Minister Rehn suggested that instead of taking the revenue to the source of emissions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u388	Mr President! This week we have heard about the creation of a top economic unit in Finland. I think that is very good news. Thank you, Prime Minister. Creep, for this fine work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u391	Madam President! There has been a great demand here to cancel and renew various agreements. I also think there's a risk. When Finland is a contractual society, we have to respect the agreements, or it may end up like Anne Mattila's song, that when we cancel the wedding, we cancel the brother's band gig and cancel the catering company. There may be employment difficulties for some when such agreements are withdrawn. That's why I wouldn't be such a pain in the ass to do it. A competitiveness pact is an important agreement. It has been addressed here many times, and at least as a Kouvolan, I also greeted it as a municipal decision-maker. It has provided a significant plus mark on the finances of municipalities. For us, it looks like 10%. Growth belongs to everyone, as has been said. Forest growth belongs to forest owners, a significant part of them. But I'd like to ask the Prime Minister: Are you worried about the European Union's vision now? What is happening to Finnish forests in the LULUCF regulation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u392	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk here today about inequality and concern for the poor, but Mr Kauma has made it clear that the Coalition Party is concerned about all those most well-off, because they are the ones covered by the solidarity tax. I think it is fair that they carry more tax burdens, but apparently the coalition disagrees. Mr President! It is corny that the government first increases inequality in its decisions and then sets up a working group to consider reducing inequalities. It is also corny that the government weakens the funding of university research and then sets up a new cutting edge in economics to produce new research and knowledge. As such, it is good that we invest in economic research, and new units can also be set up, but I want to know where the funding will come from. It's not out of the other universities, is it? This budget document does not contain any specific appropriations, any new money, for the establishment of the unit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u393	Mr President! Finland's economy is growing, and that's a good thing. I do not think that the debate on whose credit it is or whose credit it is not is a good debate. The economy is growing, and that's a good thing. The government has a very ambitious employment rate target of 72%, which is currently not being calculated. We need a family leave reform, and I'm glad it's coming. We need a rapid reform of the social security system. But we also need local agreement, and I would like to hear from the ministers in this regard: is this local agreement still to be taken forward during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u394	Before the Minister's speech, Mr Kääriäinen, Mr Jarva and Mr Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u395	Mr President! In many ways, as we have witnessed in this respect, the past is being processed. This rustling of holiday money is a good example of that. What Mr Zyskowicz told me and what Prime Minister Sipilä told me will appear to me when we are joined together as it has been. Well, there's probably a difference of opinion about that. I think it is good to recognise that there are many, many factors behind the strong rise in the economy. But it is equally important to recognise, like the Bank of Finland's President and investigators, that the Kiki agreement is a very central factor in this respect, that such a strong rise is taking place. As far as the future is concerned, the basics must always be kept in mind. When it comes to fighting poverty and inequality, the struggle to raise employment high is an indisputable fundamental. With strong employment and strong central government finances, they can keep poverty in check and inequality as low as possible. And the government must continue to act on this principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u396	Mr President! In the past, the debate has highlighted how low income families, especially families with children, are treated during this government. Well, I would like to remind you that it is precisely this that people move from unemployment to work that leads to an increase in their income. These, for example, had been omitted in this calculation ordered by the left-wing union from the Parliament's information service. Of course, if you choose the variables yourself, you get results like that. That is where I look at Statistics Finland’s statistics on income differentials: these figures do not look the same. It's good to compare these, too. It is also good then to have calculations that really also have these effects on employment, lower early childhood education fees and other factors taken into account. But then there's been a lot of talk about students. For example, student aid is being changed, the model, so that the income of low - income students is increasing. The majority of students win in this student support reform. Many other reforms have been carried out, which specifically help the low-income people, and it is right that we should target low-income state aid models and those who manage and have:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u397	Mr President! In the previous period, when we made large savings in public finances, they were assessed each time from the point of view of fairness before the budget proposal was submitted. It was particularly noteworthy that adjustments were significant, more than three times higher than this period, and yet they were made in such a way that income differentials did not increase. I mean, they were really trying to keep it all together. The injustice of the decisions taken during this term of government has been demonstrated by independent evaluators and we know that inequality has been increased, even if rhetorically we talk about the means and the participation of all. In particular, perhaps I would draw attention to the fact that the Prime Minister has now questioned here the ability of Parliament and the Ministry of Finance to produce relevant comparative data when democratic decisions are taken. This budget will not be decided next spring; it will now be decided. In addition, it might be useful to note that Etla has also studied the impact of kiky on this economic growth, and they have been shown to be limited in some way — and we do have that information. I would ask: is it really the case that the government does not intend to react in any way to these analyses by the VM and Parliament and to correct policy? And I would have asked the Minister for Finance what methods he referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u398	Representative Arhinmäki before the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u399	Madam Speaker! Mr Jarva somehow suggested that Parliament's information service would have made purposeful calculations
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u402	Now Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u403	Mr President! None of us are questioning the data service's calculations. It is clear that the EUR 3 per month is correct. It's also in VM's calculations. But we still believe that inequality is best prevented by good employment development, and it is not there in the calculation and cannot be, because the model does not melt it. We also need to make a dynamic calculation. Even though the deficit has been halved this period, there will still be almost 3 billion debts per year, and now it seems as if this has been forgotten in this debate. But now that five hours have now been discussed, we obviously now agree that the government has succeeded in these efforts to balance public finances, whether it is about local government finances or government finances. Until a year ago, we argued about whether these objectives would be successful or not. It is good that we have now made progress in the debate and that strong employment and strong public finances are the basis for everything. It is good that the debate has moved on to this process of inequality and its halt. It is very good that it is being discussed. The establishment of Juho Saare's task force here was understated. The development of inequality is a long-term development in Finland, and the task of this working group is now to find new ways of halting the development of inequality in the framework of current income development. Well, then about this economic upturn: It is true that the historic collapse took place at the end of 2008 due to outside shock. After that, after 2009, Finland went on to grow at the time, got involved in the growth of the global economy from 2010 to 2011, but then we had another collapse. The global economy did grow there, but Finland was not involved in 2012, 2013, 2014 or yet 2015 either. Now Finland has become involved in this growth and Finland is growing faster than the euro area, and now this growth is on a sound basis that investment has started and exports are pulling. Mr Eestilä raised the current account, and it is also nice to say that we are a little over a billion plus. So as a national economy, we're no longer in debt. Of course, there is still something to be done to achieve the figures before the collapse of 2008, but a positive figure in any case. So, in my opinion, what was the most important mistake in the last period that deepened Finland's downward spiral? It was that the tax rate was raised in the situation where Finland was. That is why we agreed in the formation of the government that raising the tax rate is not in our toolbox when we balance public finances. Then from the continuation of growth: It is true that when we talk about the growth in the 2020s, more forecasts start at around 1%. I think that we can help Finland to continue to grow faster than the euro area in the 2020s, and I think now is the time to take action to do so. The level of education in Finland has fallen. It is also a long-term development, and we need to find solutions to that. One big problem we also have is that the employment rate of people of working age dependent on comprehensive school is 43%. If we are aiming for 75 and we have such a large proportion, over 600,000 people who depend on primary school and whose employment rate is 43 per cent, then there will be a mathematical impossibility of getting there to 75 if we do not find entirely new ways to do so. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u406	How about three minutes for the Minister of Finance? I can see that he has spoken five times earlier in the debate so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u407	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity to speak. A few comments: First of all, growth really started, as Mr Rinne said, in spring 15, but it was weak growth based on domestic demand and construction. Large-scale strong growth started at the end of the year 16, when exports started to take off, and investment has since started. This is the major change and I dare to say that the Competitiveness Pact has had its own impact on the fact that it went off to export, there was a vision of competitiveness. And I find this absolutely indisputable. The Competitiveness Pact therefore works in accordance with its objectives. The next point is that the SDP supported the competitiveness pact in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u410	And the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u411	Mr President! Thank you for going through our seven points now in this debate. We have delivered you quite a number of different options in the form of an alternative budget from a different perspective of employment and economic growth, such as entrepreneurship. None of them have actually been specifically taken forward by the government. But I wanted to say in this context, Mr Finance Minister, that I have had so many discussions between the social partners, both on the employer and on the employee side, in relation to this kiky agreement, that I know exactly the role of the government in it and precisely the role of the coalition in how to start this coercion, so that the public sector could cut off these low-paid people's holiday money or something like that. It is your responsibility. Now you can fix this. Provide sufficient resources to the municipal and state authorities so that they can:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u412	Mr President! I've done this kind of active regret, and that's why I kept my mouth shut, but let's get started. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u413	Mr President! I have one detail on the budget debate and the budget, which is of particular interest. It concerns the refugee quota. Before the budget debate, the Assembly and Minister Risikko announced that they were pushing for an increase in the refugee quota. This did not happen, but after the budget debate, Mr Sipilä, you said that you were prepared to increase the refugee quota to as much as 2000. This is what Minister Risikko said that it was nice to hear, that there was no support in the budget debate, and he has said again that this should be opened up. The percentage gang now involved in the government has apparently taken the government hostage — it hangs with the government. When the Left Alliance, the Social Democrats, the Greens, the RKP and the Christian Democrats have also announced that they are prepared to increase the refugee quota, my question is: are you, Mr Sipilä, and Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, seriously involved in these public speeches? From this Parliament you will have your full support for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u414	Mr President! Congressman Lindtman said he's black and white about the holiday money cut. I would like to see the labour market agreement between the EK and the SAK, which says that it was forced to take such a decision. It would be genuinely interesting to see. On the other hand, you spoke of the fact that we could now genuinely replace this reduction in the public sector holiday allowance with an extension of working time. Do it, you said. Would you be of the opinion that this should now be done and given some kind of provision for it, or would it be such a social dialogue that the increase in working time would be raised to 20 minutes? Nor did I hear from Mrs Rinte when you said that money is coming for the rich precisely in favour of this entrepreneurial reduction: when I asked that quite a few of these entrepreneurs are below the poverty line, did you mean the same entrepreneurs in terms of entrepreneurship reduction as I did?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u415	Mr President! In practice, an entrepreneurial reduction of 5%, as set by the government, means that the two highest deciles of these entrepreneurs will benefit more than half of the money that amounts to over EUR 100 million of the money that has been allocated to this entrepreneurial reduction. Two top deciles. The pharmacists have told us — the pharmacists have been honest — that a few million-dollar pharmacist makes 25,000 euros in a clean hand with this model. $25,000 clean in hand for millions of dollars. According to the Pharmacy Association, pharmacies benefit an average of 5,700 euros. You can't tell me these people are on the poverty line, can you? This is precisely the driving force behind entrepreneurship reduction in this inequality in Finnish society. If it had been done in such a way that this money had been halved, made available to the smaller part of entrepreneurial income, it would have been possible to influence the unequal development of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u416	Mr President! The Prime Minister raised concerns about the fact that after primary school we have a number of young people who cannot move forward and whose employment rate is very low. That is absolutely true, and I share the same concern. This debate also highlighted how basic services are extremely important from the point of view of the low incomes, and the fact that we must guarantee good basic services also emerged in this debate on inequality. However, we are now cut off from early childhood education, from primary school, from the very basis of education that would be extremely important and would help these young people to enjoy life in the future. The fact that the right to day care was restricted to the children of the unemployed is a huge mistake. We know from the studies that day care and early childhood education is the one that precisely equalises children's chances of survival
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u417	Reply to Mr Ala-Nissilä, apparently related to entrepreneurship reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u418	Mr President! Yes, I think he is. Rinne is now branding the entrepreneur in the wrong way. This is a question of a strong reduction in business taxation, quite rightly, to 20% during the previous parliamentary term. Now this reduction is given to entrepreneurs, who, as Mr Jaskari says, are, as a rule, very low-income companies. Look at the statistics. Of course, it is good that entrepreneurship, including sole entrepreneurship, is strengthened by this tax reduction and that they too will be able to benefit from the tax reduction that others have already received. A pharmacist can set up a limited liability company, then get involved, or another entrepreneur. This is only a question of equal treatment for entrepreneurs, and in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u419	Mr President, Mr President! Once again, the reduction of entrepreneurs has completely failed in the objective that is being marketed here too, to help low-income entrepreneurs. Most of them earn less than EUR 10,000 and are subject to income tax because it is the most advantageous for them. The fact is, according to the information service of the Parliament, that the entrepreneur's deduction fell into the two largest tens of income, that is, pharmacies. And now the latest: one day I met some venture capitalists with a limited partnership for historical reasons, and they were very embarrassed to say that they, too, have now received — these very high-income, tens of thousands a week — this entrepreneurial deduction of yours, which you advertise, that it goes to duchess and physiotherapists. This is a totally failed way of wasting EUR 120 million of state resources every year, which should be used to raise the VAT threshold,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u420	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about this competitiveness pact, because I too have a memory of it from the time that the SAK organized the demonstration of 10,000 people. I remember that opportunity well because I have never had as many listeners as I have at that occasion. It is quite true that, in a situation where there was an extension of working time — and I remember it very well — there was certainly talk of long holidays in the public sector and of pekkasdays, but it is simply not true that a reduction in holiday money has been proposed on the part of the government. It was precisely the intention that no one's purchasing power should be weakened, but that competitiveness should be improved without undermining purchasing power. When it turned out that it would be better for the social partners to cut holiday money than to increase working time, then all parties would have to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u421	Mr Lindtman has the floor for a reply, but Mr Andersson before him.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u422	Mr President! As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, I repeat once again that the government has the opportunity to correct this holiday allowance cut, which will therefore still be in force for two years to come, if there is a broad consensus among the government parties that it is unfair. At this point this is a matter that is on the board and in the hands of the government, you have the opportunity to correct this. I think that even those low-paid workers would appreciate the answers to the question of how the government is going to act over the coming years, rather than arguing about whose pen the proposal to cut the holiday money in the finals came out of. After all, those low-income kindergarten teachers, local nurses and teachers are still looking for answers from the Prime Minister that, if this is not fair to the government too, are you prepared to remedy this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u423	Mr President! The Vice-President, Mr Satonen, said that the government has not run the holiday allowance cut. That is not true. It is black and white since 28.9.2015, from the fact that the government itself announced that it will present a law that cuts holiday money. It's in black and white. As I said in my speech, the government has been pushing for a holiday allowance cut, first for all employees, and then for the public sector employees in particular, to reduce holiday benefits. This will certainly also answer Mr Jaskar's question. But, Prime Minister, you spoke of the employment rate of those in primary school. This is what we share. My question is: could words be used to act, to take proper action? For a long time now, to which experts have now come to support the idea, we have argued that compulsory education should be limited and that it should ensure that young people do not have to stop their education as a result of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u424	Well, it's well past time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u425	Mr President! I do not want to continue this debate with Mr Lindtman, which may not be part of my current role, but I would like to point out that we can look at all the data that precedes these events, to which Mr Lindtman referred. That's where it all left the extension of working hours. It all went away from an extension of working hours. We remember that the Bank of Finland carried out a study that, if working time is extended by 100 hours a year, the whole competitiveness can be improved without any changes to the social security contributions to which this cut in holiday money is part. Okay, I can take it back to the point that since the process progressed, there have been different stages in it, but it has been the case that this government's goal was always to extend working time but not to weaken purchasing power. But that didn't get enough sound in society, and that's why we ended up where we are now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u426	President! It is quite infertile for an hour to go on and on about the Kiki Agreement. It's not going anywhere. The opposition speaks for their office. During the last parliamentary term, I myself spoke in the same way and in the same way. It takes up the role of the opposition. On the other hand, I consider it fruitful to try to refer to the real problems of society here. The government reacts to the fact that inequality is a concern and that not everyone can keep up is even a security threat to us. The government will react to these issues, but it is good to have a responsible debate on them, in a spirit of unity, over and above the Government-Opposition boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u427	Mr President! I would like to see that entrepreneurial deduction, which has been a very important welcome for small entrepreneurs in encouraging Finns to find employment themselves, corrects one misunderstanding. The majority of those benefiting from entrepreneurship reduction are small-income entrepreneurs. We must also remember the fact that a greater proportion of small entrepreneurs live below the poverty line in Finland than employees. I would hope that such images would not be taken from such bourgeois entrepreneurs and only from the well-off. They are a very large number of small-income entrepreneurs affected by this entrepreneurial reduction. Then for this entrepreneurial discount, when you call it a pharmacist's deduction. Well, the pharmacy reduction has benefited the pharmacy an average of 5700 euros, but pharmaceutical savings, which unfortunately have to be made, have cost them 27000 euros per pharmacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u428	Mr President! It is good that we are stopping today for this debate. What we are arguing about here is that we in the opposition earlier warned about the consequences if the tax effects were not assessed. If the tax effects on income had been assessed, everything would have gone much better. For example, the entrepreneurial discount shows quite clearly here when you look at this cone, who, the two highest deciles, has been affected by the euro effect of the entrepreneurship reduction, and there is no way to deny this film. They knew this, but they didn't want to find out. Another example: There has been much talk of an impact assessment on children. It is now quite clear that, unfortunately, tax solutions will target families with children in a way that will leave the lowest income families in a hole which I hope was not the intention of the government, in practice being punished. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the effects of kiky. Of course, purchasing power matters what kind of contract is made. The government had a strong agenda, and a Kiki impact assessment
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u429	Mr President! For the third time I am trying to get back to that big picture and this sustainability gap. It seems that we want to discuss the competitiveness pact here today, not the big picture. We have a government that has, in a way, driven our municipal court pretty messed up. We have a regional and social reform coming up. No one yet knows what it's gonna be like. The municipality receives offers for doors and windows for all the real estate in the world, and the municipal decision-makers do not know what to do. We focus surgery, we drive hospitals down, and so on. And now I come to that question. This government budget book, page 17, says that together with other measures, social and regional reform can close this sustainability gap by EUR 4 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u430	Mr President! Congressman Henriksson, we are happy to discuss a large picture. It is that the economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, consumer confidence is strengthening, business confidence is strengthening, we are moving in the right direction. But when earlier in the day there was a great deal of focus on these income differentials, indeed during the last parliamentary term, just as Mr Torsti said, very careful consideration was given to those income distribution effects and, for example, the tightening of the tobacco tax was abandoned at some point because it would have had a negative impact on the Gini coefficient. Is this a sensible policy that the taxation of a harmful substance could not be tightened when it was known that in the lowest income categories the more is used? Now that the Greens and the Democrats, as I understand it, have been in favour of shifting the focus from labour taxation to the taxation of environmental and other damage and consumption, please tell me how this is done in a way that does not have negative effects on the distribution of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u431	Mr President! I myself was involved in all the negotiations that evaluated the income distribution effects and the impact on poverty in government decisions, as long as we were in government until the 2014 spending limits debate, and not once did the increase in the tobacco tax have been abolished for this reason. But instead, when the calculations showed that the increase in the tobacco tax would in fact have reduced tax revenues, it did not increase because of the increase in imports, this was the reason why it was abandoned. On the other hand, Mr Zyskowicz is quite right. We calculated the Gini coefficients for all decisions in connection with every budget line and spending limits line, and that is why, as a result of the last government decisions, poverty fell by raising basic income and income differentials narrowed due to tax policy and basic security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u432	Mr President! It's about the entrepreneur's deduction. For example, the Harakka jumps on this issue, which is the hardest place in the world. This has only entered into force at the beginning of this year, and the tax deduction right, 5% of the result, equals exactly the same percentage for both the high income and the low income. But this is particularly aimed at small businesses, businesses and partnerships and has become a real necessity. Many craftsmen, rural multidisciplinary entrepreneurs, care entrepreneurs have been very grateful for this. And of course, two of the most deserving deciles will bounce in those curves. Their income is the biggest. Of course you can see it, but 2% is the same for each score, 5% is also relevant to them. Representative Harakka, for entrepreneurs who earn less than EUR 10,000, who are therefore subject to personal taxation, for a very large number of them it is a side income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u433	Mr President! I am delighted with this reduction in entrepreneurship, despite the fact that we are now in the opposition. I myself took the initiative in 2013. Although one wonders that the highest-income entrepreneurs are now getting more in euros, that is quite natural. In other words, companies with higher incomes usually have more responsibilities, more staff, and of course it looks bigger in euros. It is also the case in families with children that families with one child receive less child allowances in euros than larger families with children, so that, for goodness sake, think now about the purpose of this entrepreneurial deduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u434	Mr Harakka, most politely, I would like to refer to your gestures by saying that if the Members from your own group answer the same question one or two or three times, I will not back you up and give the representative from the same group several speeches on the same question. But now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u435	Thank you, Speaker! My name was mentioned on two occasions. So once again, the undeniable fact is that in this economic situation 70 million out of 120 million ended up in the two most deserving tithes of income. So inequality continued to increase. But a more serious correction of the facts is that Prime Minister Sipilä's story of the opposite development of the euro area and Finland is not true. According to Eurostat statistics, in 2012 and 2013, the GDP of the euro area was negative, minus 0.9, minus 0.3%. The reason for Finland’s plight was also the EU’s situation at the time and not the fact that adjustment was fairer when both taxes and cuts were made. Income inequality has not increased in ten years, this too is clear from Statistics Finland's statistics. This is also false information. This is a serious matter. You questioned the neutral facts of the Parliament's information service and the Ministry of Finance, then you put it to the table yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u436	Mr President! Let me remind you once again that in some speeches there is talk of opposition, that there are six parties here, so that if anyone thinks something, it is not one and the same lump. It must be easier for viewers to follow who the talk is addressed to. With regard to tax evasion, I do believe that, when there have been left-wing governments, I myself have at least looked with horror when all things seem to have been filled with tax blackmail. I was not here in Parliament at the time, and the more I looked at the tax-raising boom, the more I wanted to come here to influence it myself. There must be other options than taxing people to death. I would also like to send a request to the Prime Minister that, now that we have not yet received the cost of immigration, do not raise the number of quota refugees until we can control this problem of asylum. Next year there will be 7,000 new asylum seekers. Now we should get it under control first before we start talking about increasing the refugee quota.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u437	Mr President! When you listen to this place in some places, even an entrepreneurial - minded discussion, I am greatly surprised. Look, my friends, the statistics, how it really goes. Most of today's new jobs in small businesses are creating new jobs. Large transnational companies provide final accounts for employees, small companies hire labour. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, break something down or destroy something that is important for Finnish employment. Entrepreneurs today invest in even small companies. I know this from my own experience when I've been following the development of a few companies right next to me. You are here to attack entrepreneurs, to attack the expertise that is doing and creating new jobs for people in this country. I hope that this is a matter that will gradually get to the point rather than calling out the kind of people who really do good for Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u438	I will give Mr Essayah and Mr Rinte the answers, and then the Prime Minister the five-minute speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u439	Mr President! Prime Minister, let us go over this issue of child relief. It is true that during the last term the Christian Democrats in the government were satisfied with the creation of a fixed-term child allowance. But why? The fact that during the last period, when the Sixpack government sought economic equilibrium, it was faced with the desire to cut child supplements, but the Christian Democrats almost made it a government issue. I was in Brussels at the time, but I also know something about that fight. At that time, children's deduction was made, yes, but for a limited period of time, and now, when the government does not continue this child reduction, it causes surgery on families with children, on low and middle incomes, that is, this compensation will be abolished. Thus, families with children with low and middle incomes are the only ones whose taxation will increase. This is completely incomprehensible. On top of that, this period, you have cut the indexes of child supplements first and then frozen them. These measures total more than EUR 140 million
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u440	Mr President! In response to Mr Hoskos, the Social Democrats are not opposed to improving the position of an entrepreneur, but to the model you have built for a reduction in entrepreneurship. As Mr Harakka said, 70 million out of 120 million goes to the two top deciles. Among other things, we have proposed raising the VAT threshold to EUR 30000. We have suggested that the first employee should receive a tax deduction of EUR 20000 from the first employee. These are such things that in concrete terms help the entrepreneur to employ and help the entrepreneur to get along. With regard to the taxation of families, without a spouse, the family with one child will receive a half-percent tax increase now in this government model and, for two children, one per cent. It seems to me that today we wash our hands so much: we wash our vacation money, we wash our family taxes. This is about the fact that the government does not want to take responsibility for their unequal actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u441	Prime Minister now, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u442	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, this issue of the refugee quota. Mr Arhinmäki, since the budget debate, I have not proposed raising the refugee population. On 22 June, Yle sent a recorded programme in which I proposed it as part of an EU solution. And I want to tell everyone what it's all about. Instead of having this sort of uncontrolled flow of immigration, the result of which, for example, in Finland one third gets asylum, we should have Europe's borders in order, we should have the Dublin Regulation in force. I have suggested that a long-term solution should be to tackle root causes, to take a closer crisis area for those who have lost hope of returning home, to manage in cooperation with UN organisations. Then the proportion of Finland could be, for example, 2,000. That is what I have said many times, and I believe that we in this Chamber could have quite a consensus that this could be the longer-term solution to this situation, which is now completely out of control. Then on Mr Henriksson's question on the sustainability gap. According to the Ministry of Finance, we're about halfway through the job. It is estimated that 2.4% is currently the level of the sustainability gap in GDP. The 4 billion cuts will improve the sustainability gap by 4 billion. This good employment development now covers half of what we have assessed. If we get to 72 percent, we'll get that $2 billion. I mean, we're counting on 10, right? 4 billion will then depend on the reforms, of which the greatest is the reform of social security. It has been estimated at EUR 3 billion in the Government Programme and a total of EUR 1 billion in other smaller matters. This is what we're holding on to. Representative Hakkarainen raised the issue of corporate subsidies here. Perhaps it would be good to know that when Mrs Rinne drives a diesel car from Parliament to Mäntsälä, she will receive corporate support throughout the journey. In other words, if we drop the taxation of petrol and diesel taxes to the same level, then almost half a billion companies would then be decalculated. That is what we must remember all the time in this business support debate: there are also transport services for people with disabilities under the business support list, and so on. But I agree that there are also subsidies which are harmful, and here we should now find a solution to make it more innovative in business, for example for Tekes. I would say that if between 100 million and 200 million were obtained from the business aid package, I would be very pleased. Now you also have the opportunity to influence this in the opposition. Requests for appointments have been made to this group. Now for the entrepreneurship discount. Last season we dropped the corporation tax by 6 percentage points, which, in my opinion, was a good decision, but even within the decision, the fact is that, of course, the companies that make the most of it — in the same way as this entrepreneurial deduction — is quite clear. But there is no basis for it, [Department : Progress! ] Then there is the question of reducing the tax burden on high incomes: I do not think that this is the time. For making a local deal: it would be time for that now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u443	Mr President! I am addressing economic growth and its conditions, and I would remind you that long-term economic growth is generated by factors of production, labour force, capital and productivity. Well, we will not get to this employment, I am sure you will have to recognise that, but the damage will come when productivity targets are not in line with our wishes either. This problem is not only a Finnish problem, but also in the global economy productivity has slowed down, but we are now going to decide whether we are doing the right thing here in Finland to promote productivity development. Here again, there is no shortcut, but productivity can be promoted through education, knowledge and R & D policy. And when you, Prime Minister, were concerned that the educational level of Finns is falling and that some of the young people depend only on basic education, you will wonder why we are not investing in and investing in education policy at the moment. The Social Democrats have ideas about this. We want to invest in secondary education so that those young people you mentioned do not exist in this country, but everyone
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u444	Mr President! In these speeches it was suggested that the government would not have intervened in the immigration situation or that expenses would have run out of control. The total cost of migration will fall sharply by EUR 100 million. Of course, it can now be used for other purposes. The Government Programme states that the refugee quota remains at the current level. It says let's go. In that, the Prime Minister is absolutely right that a sustainable solution should first be found at EU level, namely to put the external borders in order, to respect the Dublin Regulation, and, as the Blue Minister Terho has suggested, asylum should be transferred beyond the EU's external borders in the longer term, and then people could be taken from it to the Member States. That would be a sustainable solution. But I am surprised that the Finns have opposed or criticised the support for voluntary return. It remains unclear to me whether you want these people who have received a negative asylum decision to remain in Finland or whether they should be removed from Finland. Our line in the board is to give chips to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u445	Mr President! Mr Elo has already pointed out the amounts that the total cost of immigration has fallen this year. Indeed, the main reason has decreased the number of asylum seekers. In the past, concerns were expressed on the part of the opposition regarding the presence of illegal residents. It must be remembered that the government, together with us excellent authorities, is constantly working, that people really understand that it is best for them to leave the country when a negative decision on asylum has become final. The government has continued to take measures to implement, among other things, an action plan against illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u446	Reply, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u447	Mr President! I am still not Mr Modig. There have also been other mistakes in this Chamber today. One of the most crucial is perhaps the phrase that has now been repeated for the last five hours, about how employment is the best remedy for poverty and inequality. This isn't happening. In most poor and unequal countries, everyone works, from young children to old people. High employment rates as such do not eliminate poverty or inequality. In order to reduce poverty and inequality, employment must be combined with a fair distribution of labour and capital, an economic policy that balances income differences and socio-economic mobility. These aren't cherries on top of a cake. They're an essential part.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u448	Mr President! There was talk of entrepreneurship, and that is a very important subject. We know that new jobs are mainly created by small enterprises. We have a huge number of self-employed people who would love to work with if they dare to hire it. That is why it would be extremely important to lower the threshold, to support it, and I would have asked what the government is going to do in this respect. Are you prepared, for example, to remove the additional costs of hiring the first employee so that the threshold for hiring the first employee would fall? Of this entrepreneurship reduction, it must be said that when it came, it was precisely traded as a policy to reduce income disparities, because we know that the vast majority of small entrepreneurs actually live at the very poverty line. That is why it would have been important to direct it specifically.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u449	One more reply, Mr Niikko, and then Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u450	Mr President! I do not deny that the government has taken good measures to deal with asylum seekers and refugees in this crisis, because we ourselves have been in the government for a year and a half, but whether enough has been done is different. Today, Prime Minister, I raised just what was said in the Section for Administration and Security today that more than 100 million people, now thought of in this spring's framework, are not enough to receive these refugees and asylum seekers, but 80 million will be added to that framework in the spring. One of the main reasons was that, following negative decisions, 1,646 new asylum applications have come from persons who have gone through the whole appeal process and have not left the country, i.e. they have refused to leave the country and re-launched this asylum application process. In other words, once again the same costs run for them until a process is completed for them and possibly an attempt is made to buy them out of this country. It's not like there's a head or a tail, that no one's left.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u451	Now the answer would be Mrs Rintee, and perhaps Mr Elo, after the slope.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u452	President! Do we, Mr Prime Minister, agree that this calculation of Parliament's information service for this distribution of income is true in relation to this reduction in entrepreneurship, i.e. that the two highest income deciles will receive more than EUR 75 million out of this EUR 126 million entrepreneurship reduction pot? If we agree on this, I will continue to understand that businesses must be treated in the same way, but what is essential is where the money is spent when the economy stalls and it is a difficult economic situation. And now, at the same time that you have cut pensioners in the form of indexes, in the form of an increase in the allowance for medicines and so on, and you have cut student financial aid and 100 days unemployment allowance for the unemployed, at the same time you say that a fair policy must now be taken between companies. What do you think these pensioners, unemployed people, families with children and students think about your choice of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u453	Now, Prime Minister, 1 minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u454	Mr President! Do you, Mr Rinne, believe that the corporate tax decision taken last season, which, of course, gives the most to the companies that make the most profit, was justly correct in that economic situation? I think it was the right decision, and now this decision is a continuation of that decision. It puts all forms of companies in the same position. And by number there are many more entrepreneurs here under this corporate deduction than the few pharmacies that are there at the top. I'm sure the calculations are correct. I don't doubt the calculations. A similar calculation can also be made for limited liability companies. It is guaranteed that some limited companies will pay the most significant part of corporate tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u455	Mr President! The corporate tax decision has subsequently proved to be effective in such a way that it has contributed to the growth of the economy. It's had meaning. It's an effect you can't deny. But that is not what this is about, Mr President. So there are thousands of companies here that are in the midst of these other deciles than these two supreme deciles. And now, of this EUR 126 million, EUR 76 million is being spent on these two highest income deciles, and that is an unfair policy in a situation where you cut off pensioners, the unemployed and students, you cut off education. These government decisions must be put in the right context, and in the background of this decision, the government itself states that they have no employment effects, no economic growth effects — that is, in relation to this entrepreneurial reduction. It was a bad decision in time, it was unfair and increased inequality among entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u456	Mr President! We're finally getting to the point. I believe that it would be fair for the government to directly recognise that 120 million will be spent on a measure to reduce corporate taxation, which will benefit the most high-income entrepreneurs in the distribution of income. This would also send a clear message to the citizens. The problem here has been that many representatives of the government parties have tried to justify this reduction by particularly benefiting low-income entrepreneurs, such as couturers or physiotherapists. On the other hand, it is neither fair nor very clear policy making. Mr President! Many speakers have said that this should be about a big picture. This is exactly the big picture of what money is being spent on in the economic situation we are in. The government decided to spend 120 million on reducing corporate taxation in a way that targeted 70 million of all high incomes. How much money is spent on this budget
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u457	Now Mr Jaskar has the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u458	Mr President! There are 176,000 entrepreneurs receiving entrepreneurial deductions. 135,000 of them make less than 30,000. This is about all of them getting that entrepreneurial discount. Now you are making a condition that they can never grow and get that entrepreneurial deduction. When you're talking about hiring the first foreign employee, what about those self-employed? Would it be impossible for them to get the first foreign worker, but only the poor self-employed? Do you also think that such a division will be made? Is it not our aim that companies grow, develop, employ, become profits, become ownership? Isn't that the goal?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u459	Mr President! Mr Niikko asked a proper, appropriate question here. In terms of internal, external security, the government has tightened up asylum policy with world events and increased money for the Defence Forces, the police, the Protection Police and the Border Guard. There's a lot of work to be done here. But in view of these cases to which Mrs Niikko referred, the retrial of the asylum process would be affected by, for example, a person’s telling of his conversion to a Christian. That's not enough competence for me to assess, but this is one of the reasons that can affect. Money goes into this process anyway, and what I am wondering about in the People's Republic of Finland is that you are criticising this money for voluntary return, raising it, which is a sensible way for the government to make a specific contribution to the voluntary return of asylum seekers who have received a negative decision, and hence to much lower costs. Again, I ask you the Finns of Peru: Do you want those who have received a negative decision to be effectively returned or to remain here in the country? What do you want?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u460	I now give a reply to Mr Niiko on the previous occasion, and then we return to the Prime Minister's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Now, Mr Elo, we have to take that up, because in the first speech you have made as if the government had made savings of EUR 200 million in this asylum process, that there have been no savings, cuts have been made, but there have been fewer arrivals so far. However, the steak of the matter is that the government will find EUR 80 million as a dinner for him for this detailed process alone. But when we talk about the important funding of a few millions, such as getting the medical benefits of pensioners to the right level of competence, there is no way to find it. This sense of proportion has, in a sense, also disappeared from the blue now that they have defected from the True Finns into the blue dream. In this sense, you no longer follow the line of principle that we followed in one government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u462	Mr Lindtman, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u463	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has now revised his previous speeches in relation to this reduction in entrepreneurs or pharmacists. You mentioned earlier in this House that the biggest beneficiaries of this would be physiotherapists, hairdressers, shoemakers, farmers, reindeer entrepreneurs and café entrepreneurs, and so on, and now you have just admitted that they are not the biggest beneficiaries, but the biggest ones are the most wealthy, and that is because personal taxation is progressive taxation. I'm glad you checked this out. Mr President! When this budget week started, there was a lot of hope: The Prime Minister had admitted that government decisions increase inequality. It was hoped that the coalition would finally be ready to involve teachers and nurses in this economic growth. There was also hope that the drop-out of secondary education would be reduced
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u464	To this particular point, Mr Yanar, and then to the Prime Minister, a response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u465	Mr President! I would like to ask the Prime Minister in relation to this top-level body of economic research: Mr Sarkkinen has just asked where the money comes from. I don't think he got an answer, and I think this is a pretty important piece of information. Would the Prime Minister have any idea where this money is coming from? Should we take it from existing universities or from where?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u466	Now, Prime Minister, one minute of the tax debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u467	Mr President! For example, hundreds of lawyers operate in the form of a share company, and they benefited in exactly the same way from the reduction in corporation tax that was made during the last period and was a good decision. When we talk about corporate taxation, if we go there to build progressiveness, we know what problems we are facing. This was a question of placing the company of persons, which is the 170,000, in the same position as the limited liability companies. It makes no sense to artificially keep such a tax differential between them. In number, this tax deduction covers at least 165,000 non-pharmacists.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u468	One last response to Mr Rinnes, and perhaps this theme would be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u469	Mr President! I would just like to say that this situation described by the Prime Minister leads to the fact that it is those people with the highest income who benefit from it. It would have been more just and reasonable for growth — as your own proposal states, there is no employment impact, there is no economic growth effect — to distribute the money so that these low-income ones can start to grow their businesses. Then I would like to say to you: why have you not intervened in the taxation of dividends for non-listed companies? There is clearly such injustice that should be put in place, which also hampers the overall funding at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u470	Mr President! It should be borne in mind that businesses with a business name, including tens of thousands, are also covered by this reduction. There are a total of over 230,000 of them, and there are about 500 pharmacists. That is the number of them in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u473	Mr President, Mr President! Entrepreneurship, small entrepreneurs, self-employed people can best be supported by raising the VAT threshold from EUR 10000 to EUR 30000, as we have suggested in our alternative budget. Why is it that, as has been said here, hundreds of thousands are entitled to self-reduction but will not use it? This is because the income so small, which 70% of those entitled to receive each year, has so far been cheaper to be subject to income tax. They will not use entrepreneurship reduction, but will benefit from a proper reduction in the taxation of earned income in themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u476	Mr President! Of course, this is also intended to inspire companies, partnerships to grow. And the more these hundreds of thousands of taxable income companies are created, the more tax revenues the State will receive, and therefore there is reason to have such incentives to make small businesses grow into larger companies. In other words, this same debate took place a year ago, and there has been no progress in this debate, which involves a certain ideological view which does not accept this equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u477	Mr President! This entrepreneurship reduction and many other tax issues are such that you can claim a lot of things about them. I think it would be appropriate if the government were now to have a study carried out on the effects of entrepreneurship reduction, a study to find out how much it has affected employment, tax revenues and so on. For example, when the car tax, which we called for to be reduced, was reduced, its yield grew clearly,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u480	Mr President! I shall now return to the debate a little back, because I believe that many excellent comments have been made here from the RKP on the fact that we are talking a little about this big picture, and I would also like to return to Mr Nylander here earlier in the day to take into account what our main concerns will be in the future if we cannot correct it. It was a question of equal opportunities for all in comprehensive school to continue the training path from then on. I myself have considered the fact that the government is now taking more very good measures to enable more children to participate in early childhood education and thus to achieve equal opportunities in learning conditions. Could Parliament consider, in the context of the budget debate, that we should also have positive discrimination in early childhood education, which has been identified as a highly effective solution on the whole of comprehensive school?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u481	I understand that Mr Viitanen and Mr Salmon also asked to speak in the tax debate. I will admit them, and then the Prime Minister will speak, and the debate will continue afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u482	Mr President! In addition to this tax debate: the government's arguments, the Legislative Review Council, everyone said that this apothecary reduction has little employment impact, but there is still room for more than 100 million to be put into tax deductions for the most well-off entrepreneurs. Prime Minister, I have an important comment for you: at the moment, when we talk about tax policy, I am sure that the recipients of millions of dollars and the owners of large forest holdings will thank you, these pharmacists will thank you, but at the same time you are making such tax decisions that, for example, the property tax will rise, the heating costs of detached houses and all the houses will increase, the costs of living in ordinary people will increase, with these tax increases. At the same time, as the only group, the taxation of families with children, families with children with low and middle incomes, will increase. So are these just choices of value now? I don't think so. They didn't go quite right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u483	Mr President! Mr Harakka's speech involved such a misunderstanding that the entrepreneurial deduction would be made from the share of the capital income of business income, but this is not the case, but the 5% reduction will come from the entire entrepreneurial income, and after that the business income will be divided into the share of capital income and earned income, and most of the business income will be taxed almost always as earned income, progressive earned income, and then the entrepreneur will have to pay for the investment loan, so it is quite unreasonable for the pharmacists to be devalued by calling this pharmacy deduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u486	And now I give the Prime Minister a response. He'll be out of here soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u487	Mr President! I really am going to have to leave, and just for a short time here. Representative The salmon presented just what I was about to say about the basis of this tax. This debate is going to be quite the wrong one. In addition, the highest-income pharmacies and lawyers already operate in a limited company form, and this decision has already been taken in the previous period. I'm sure from there, when you do a similar survey, they're the most successful...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u492	I would now like to ask those representatives who still want to continue the debate even after the Prime Minister has to leave here, get up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u493	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki responded with a glaring response that the Gini coefficient would have prevented further increases in the tobacco tax. Here's the clipping. [ Keeps paper in his hand]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u494	Reply, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u495	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz or the President-in-Office of the Chamber, Mr Zyskowicz, as I said, during the time when the left-wing alliance was in the government when I was in the negotiations, there was never a failure to raise the tobacco tax on this basis. The clip to which you refer is from a time when Katainen kicked us out of the government because we did not approve of the policy of cutting basic security by making index freezes, by making partial index freezes, by cutting out, among other things, basic education and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u496	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u497	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u498	Mr President! My initial request was about the increase in housing costs, which Mr Meri has already pointed out in the debate. In other words, real estate taxes will continue to rise, and housing costs will also be raised by raising the taxation of heating fuels. These unfortunate increases in housing costs affect people equally, regardless of their income level, are therefore regressive taxes. It would have been very interesting to hear the views of ministers on how the government intends to contribute in the future to moderate housing costs — unfortunately they have left. But I cannot fail to address Mr Elo's comments on the reduction in immigration costs. They have been slightly reduced in some respects as the number of applicants has decreased. However, on page 244 of the budget book, it has been mentioned, among other things, that the unit costs per person at reception centres were EUR 17000 in 2016 and 2017. Next year the estimate is EUR 19200, which means that it will rise significantly. There should still be room for savings in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u499	Mr President! In this debate, the Prime Minister raised a very important issue when he said that the situation of those dependent on comprehensive school needs to be addressed, because their employment is difficult. I fully agree with him, but at the same time I wonder why the government then decided to end the skills program for young adults. It was a bad decision, leaving tens of thousands of young adults without vocational training without a place of study and perhaps without a profession. The skills programme for young adults has worked so well because it takes particular account of the specific needs of this group, and that is why I would have liked to have heard why this decision has been taken. At the same time, I would have liked to have heard the Prime Minister's opinion on this extension of compulsory education, which would be a very important future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u500	Mr President! I myself would like to return to this debate on entrepreneurship reduction. I think that this would be the right group to ask whether this reduction is good and fair: to ask genuine entrepreneurs about it and not to imagine that we know about it here in the Chamber. I, at least, have not heard the answer from any entrepreneur that this would not be a fair solution, because it was here that the tax treatment of the various forms of business was sought to be fair. When decisions on corporate tax rebates were taken in 2014, this type of case concerned limited liability companies. Now everyone, whatever their form of enterprise, is getting a reduction. Of course there are differences depending on the company's situation, but entrepreneurs themselves understand and accept the situation. And that is how these things should be decided here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u501	Mr President! In the old days, there was talk of young and angry men. I think these men are angry today, but they are no longer able to express how disappointed they are in society and in the system as a whole. Searching youth work, comprehensive social and health services, preventive diverse work, versatile support to move forward in life are included in the RKP programme "12 measures to help the most vulnerable". Unfortunately, I have not noticed that the government has put any effort into these young men, who are in real danger of marginalisation. The plight of vocational education and training will increase the already difficult situation of young men. Why has the government not reacted in any way to this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u502	Mr President! I listened to this debate in my room and was surprised that, for a long time, tobacco tax has been raised here in the debate. It is clear that the tobacco tax is relevant to the income of the state and also to the expenditure of the various population groups, but I would like to stress that once we are moving towards a smoke-free Finland and once this Parliament has ratified the international tobacco convention, the tobacco tax must be seen as a health policy instrument in the first place. Tobacco is a very exceptional product. Every other smoker dies of it. Taxation is an important instrument for improving public health, reducing health inequalities, and it also bites especially on young people, and, of course, those who smoke — if I throw a little cheap throw — can still save by stopping smoking, for which society is offering more and more help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u503	Mr President! It takes every citizen to run a society, and one must strive to ensure that no one falls off. I'm going back to the over-indebted bailiffs with a default note. There's almost 400,000 of them. It's a huge number of people. The Prime Minister raised this point that a positive credit register may be coming, but the question is what else could be done for them to get everyone involved. We've been talking about raising the cover, but now it's been a little quieter. So, of course, one must strive to get back to work and see that it would be worthwhile to be at work and a little more room for use. The ministers are already out of the picture, but if the government parties have an answer and an opinion, I would be happy to listen, because this concerns young people, pensioners, small entrepreneurs, the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u504	Mr President! I had a group of southern sole entrepreneurs here today — none of these entrepreneurs were, by the way, a pharmacist — and the message was quite clear: thank you for bringing about the entrepreneurial reduction. It is a big help for hairdressers, security entrepreneurs, many other entrepreneurs, who were, construction operators and so on, to make the company's economy more attractive and competitive in relation to other forms of company. Mr. Speaker! Today, an important challenge has become for all parties: that more attention should be paid to regional development. The city centre has challenged everyone to do so. If we have to look at something in the future, it is that we can develop equally here in Finland, we can try here, we can employ and, above all, live everywhere in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u505	I give Mr Haraka the answer. Before that, however, I would like to say that the answer to this debate has been the following: the SDP 46 replies, the Centre 37, the Coalition Party 31, the Blue 14, the Basic Finns 17, the Greens 11, the Left Alliance 20, the RKP 12 and the KD 7. — Reply, Mrs Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u506	President, President! Now, just to record the fact that I meant that when earned income is what is taxed on these smallest entrepreneurs, it means that much of this is of no special benefit. About half of those entitled to entrepreneurship deduction, or 150,000, make a profit of less than EUR 10000 — this is from a government proposal. The median income is less than 10,000. With this in mind, it is concluded that half of those entitled to this benefit EUR 3 40 cents a month, i.e. the HKL bus ticket — the small entrepreneur must pay for the trip himself. The Government's proposal itself states: "The proposed changes will significantly increase income differentials measured by the Gini coefficient. The tax reduction will be directed at “lower-income high-income companies and their owners than at high-income low-income enterprises and their owners”. Case closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u507	Mr President! At least this group of ten, which I had today, had a turnover of about EUR 30000, did not go into these million categories of entrepreneurial income, as is now implied here. They specifically explained the impact this has had on the rich rock — the expression they used — that revenue can be improved. Finally, there is a government that has been able to take measures for sole entrepreneurs, for small entrepreneurs, to get taxes on the same line, also to improve their livelihoods. Of course, there were many other provisions, including the need to pay more attention to their endurance. Yes, I really hope that Parliament will be able to intervene and, for example, offer better access to cultural and sports vouchers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u508	Mr President! Trying is a fundamental issue for us. It must be encouraged and promoted in every way. But, of course, we have this problem, which Mrs Harakka pointed out, that if income is so small that no taxes are paid, then deductions will not benefit either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u509	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u510	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u511	When more than one second starts to pass, unfortunately I have to knock and then I have to intervene with my voice. — Mr Henriksson, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u512	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Tack, Mr värderade talman! I will return to this debate on this employment objective. In this previous speech, or perhaps an hour ago,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u513	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u515	Mr President! Mr Kymäläinen, in his speech today, suggested that there were certain groups that the government wanted to favour in its policy, and raised one of these, the entrepreneurs. I readily admit that we do want to support entrepreneurs, thereby increasing Finnish employment and tax revenues. And here, of course, the important thing is these business subsidies, which have been discussed a lot. The Greens in particular are always talking about reducing unnecessary business subsidies, and little has been said about what they are then. But the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, has made a great point that, well, everyone, the parliamentary working group, is committed to seeing what they are and what can be cut, what is being done differently, and now it is being carried out by the government. And Minister Terho has proposed, when the Social Democrats are calling for this lower limit for VAT-based business to be raised, for these subsidies to be cut, if they are in vain to everyone's mind, and then for the benefit of these small and medium-sized enterprises, it is precisely by raising the lower limit for VAT-based business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, I have also put forward the replies to the honourable Members, Mr Essayah, Mr Hoskonen, Mr Kontula, Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Viitanen. These go on and then we will move on to the list of speakers, but then Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u517	President! I rarely get excited in this Chamber, but I noticed that during my previous speech my pulse rose moderately, because this family glow in the budget is totally out of bounds. As I said, this government has in fact cut child supplements twice: firstly, because the index has been frozen and cut and, secondly, the child allowance is now abolished at the turn of the year. In other words, these cuts in total go beyond what the government was forced to do in the last period and compensates with this reduction in child benefit. At that time, the city centre and the Finns of Peru were here to ask an intermediate question about child supplementation and stated that the government is maiming families with children. This government has done exactly the same with a much greater amount, and the question now arises as to whether an intermediate question would be a place against the government, because there is nothing to cover with this wave of family children, because the government has always tried to paint this budget as if it were a very child-friendly one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u518	Mr President! When the companies are well, Finland is well. When you look at this budget book and see that the Finnish economy has gone on a growth path, it is worth remembering in this house that for eight years we went in the wrong direction, as if the navigator had strayed from the map. We're on our way back to the target. A fair first year is behind this route and there are still many ahead. If we now leave to kill these growth foods at the beginning, guess what will happen to us. In other words, on this same path, we must continue and give the entrepreneurs value. I can tell you that in my municipality of Ilomants, for example, the development of income tax has been negative because, when the population falls slightly, there are a lot of pensioners, so there is not a lot of tax revenue on earnings, but we have done everything in business policy and, surprisingly, corporate tax revenue has increased. This proves that politics has been a real, live example. Mr Savola has just witnessed this in his own speech. Let us not destroy this beginning growth by being jealous of someone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u519	Mr President! As I understand it, Mr Henriksson, I never said that a high employment rate in itself would be an impossible objective, or even a very bad one, unambiguously, but that the assumption that a high employment rate would reduce poverty and inequality is a false assumption that economic policy should not be based on. The high employment rate alone is not doing this. It may be possible if it is accompanied by the elements I have previously listed which prevent a high level of employment from being achieved in a way that increases poverty and inequality. But the problem is that now the government thinks that we are going to do this inequality thing later when we have this employment done. These should be thought of at the same time, creating such labour market structures that support equality and the principles of equality at birth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u520	Mr President! After a very strong presentation of the income distribution effects during this government or next year's budget, it was good to hear that an important explanation for this low income decile's income situation is the tightening of the tobacco tax. Do the Social Democrats still think that, for example, the tobacco tax or, for example, the alcohol tax should not be tightened because it has a negative effect on the Gini coefficient? I have not yet received an answer from Mr Mikkos. When the Greens very strongly flag up the need to shift the focus from taxation of labour to taxation of disadvantages and consumption, and when the Social Democrats, at least in the past, have been in favour of this and I am strongly in favour of this, I would ask the Greens how you do this in such a way that it does not have negative income-sharing effects, because, as has been said, there is no fuel pump or other tobacco purchaser to generate that income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u521	Once again, Mr Viitanen, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Mikkonen have spoken on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u522	Mr President! I hope that, in the autumn, we will see another reading of the Social Democratic alternative budget, which will also have a fairer, wise tax line presented. President! This debate started on a serious issue, on inequality and on the fact that Prime Minister Sipilä himself admitted at the A-Studio that the policy of this government is unequal. There have been many important questions here, but I myself have missed answering a few more questions which I hope will then be analysed by the government parties: why at this stage, when it is said that the tax rate is not rising, are we prepared to increase taxes on small and middle-income families as the only group? The second question is what I am going to repeat here again and again: where is the programme to combat pensioner poverty? Mr Kaikkonen insisted on this in the summer, and I looked forward to having a budget debate, and although this book, Mr President, how I looked into it, I cannot find that programme here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u523	Mr President! There was talk of corporate subsidies. It is great that this work is now being started, but of course I myself would have liked to have been able to take the first steps. It is clear that when sharing common funds, they should be allocated in such a way that they are used efficiently and achieve the objectives that are sought. When we talk about corporate subsidies, we talk about a $4 billion pot, and I'm sure there's something we can reduce. We know that the Ministry itself has made proposals on what are inefficient, as VATT has done, the Finnish Entrepreneurs have done, and these studies should be used. Then with regard to taxation: Indeed, there is a need to reduce the tax burden on labour, and at the same time, if disadvantages and consumption are to be taxed, we must ensure that people on low incomes get along, that basic security must be adequate, and then, on the other hand, those on the job, through the taxation of labour income, will receive more income. But this is the right thing to worry about, and we have to make sure everyone stays on board.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u524	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u525	Thank you, Mr President. It is also good to have a debate on the future in the budget debate, which is why I very much like to say a few words about education at the end of this debate. Extending compulsory education or, in fact, the right to study would be a very important future, because the problem is not that young people cannot study after comprehensive school, but that too many drop out because of the high cost of learning material, among other things. In this context, the government should now make alternative cost calculations, which would mean calculating the cost of dropping out of education or not graduating from a profession or employment, and then comparing these costs with the costs of extending compulsory education. I am quite sure that extending the right to study would also be a cost-effective future for society. Well, at least you should count it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u526	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u527	Mr President! As a result of two years of work, the government has achieved strong economic growth in Finland, even surprisingly strong. This is partly a matter for the government, and there are a number of other factors: the global economy, the competitiveness pact that the social partners have concluded, and the behaviour of people is certainly one factor. A rather big factor is that a climate of trust has been created for the whole of Finnish society. Perhaps the greatest merit of the Competitiveness Pact is that it has brought that confidence both to the social partners and to businesses and also to us consumers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u530	Mr President! The poor get poorer and the rich get richer — the content of the government budget proposal in a nutshell. The performance cuts the lowest income by EUR 37 per year and gives the high incomes more than EUR 400. This shows the Ministry of Finance's own calculation. Prime Minister Sipilä feels that the growth of income differentials is an unfortunate development. Wrong. It's a choice of values made by the government itself. The choice of the Greens is different: we do not cut basic security and we direct tax reductions to the most low-income people, including pensioners, the unemployed and the disabled, who are not helped by a reduction in income tax. Mr President! No one's economy should fall off social and health charges. But that is what is happening. From the beginning of the week it was reported that the number of health centers and hospital bills that went into enforcement increased dramatically last year. Last year, the government increased the maximum rates for health centre and hospital fees and increased the share of medical and medical expenses while the basic security was cut. These clippings are now visible in the daily lives of low incomes. Not all Finns can afford to treat their diseases anymore. This cannot be the case. Therefore, the green option cancels the cuts to medical and travel expenses and provides basic security. Mr President! The economy is growing and employment is increasing, and we can be satisfied with this. But it must be remembered that although the economy is growing, structural unemployment will not disappear. For example, economic growth in North Karelia is hardly reflected in a reduction in unemployment. Transformation training is needed, but not everyone is helping either. It is therefore important to continue to invest in employment and also to enable associations to be employed. Associations would offer many unemployed people meaningful work that will bring good to the whole community. We also know that, despite the Youth Guarantee, almost one in five young people are outside education and labour and, unlike other OECD countries, the number of young people in Finland is increasing. That is why the government deserves praise for investing in the budget to promote the employment of young people by increasing the starting points for vocational training and the wage subsidy for those under the age of 30. Mr President! A well-functioning and high-quality education system is the lifeblood of employment. During its term, the government has permanently cut a huge half a billion out of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u531	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u532	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u533	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u534	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u535	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u536	Mr President! According to the old saying, economic trends come like a thief at night. This applies both to the upturn and to the downturn. The criteria for good economic development are now in the right position. There is no prospect of a worse direction than fundamental changes. This year, economic growth can rise to more than 3% as exports draw and private consumption increases. Employment is clearly improving, but there is still some catching up to do. At the moment, economists see the economic situation in Finland as such that good development continues at its own weight and that no further work is needed to strengthen this development at the moment. However, the decision to reduce the tax burden on labour should contribute to a moderate wage settlement. Mr President! The maintenance of our country's transport infrastructure, even at the current level, let alone development, requires more and more resources. The growth of the correction debt needs to be slowed down and the transport system needs to be developed on a long-term basis. Positive structural change such as south-west Finland can only be fully exploited if, for example, the poor condition and congestion of the transport network do not constitute a bottlenecks. I consider the renovation of the New Town railway and the renovation of Highway 8 to be of paramount importance. The importance of the south-north-north-facing highway on the West Coast is central to the whole logistics system in Finland. Due to dual lanes and level interfaces, there are clear capacity problems on the road. Improving the eight roads is an important and important project at national level. Highway 9 and Highway 10 should not be forgotten either. Mr President! The government programme also had to include cuts in income support for agriculture. In practice, they focused on the part of national support for the compensatory allowance. However, these cuts have been cancelled for 2016 and 2017. This should be continued and cuts should also be cancelled for 2018, 2019 and 2020. However, according to the recent draft budget, cuts will be made in 2018, albeit less than was written in the Government Programme. This is a bad sign for the coming years, when it is already known that the budget for environmental compensation is also a dramatic threat to the end of the last year of the fund period, i.e. 2020. The problems that Brexit may cause in the implementation of the agricultural programme of the Fund period are also ahead of us. The exemption from transfer tax on changes in the form of a company is very important for agriculture, as real property is subject to a transfer tax of up to 4%. There are currently around 700 farms in Finland in the form of share companies. However, the transition to share capital has gradually accelerated in agriculture, just as in other family businesses. The advantages of holding shares apply to well-profited farms, which still exist, and/or to secondary farms where a significant proportion of the income is taxed at severe marginal rates of income tax. The corporate tax rate of 20% also facilitates the management of indebtedness and investment. Mr President! Bioeconomy is the government's strategic priorities. Sustainable and diversified use of renewable resources is a cornerstone of energy policy. It is equally important to use non-renewable resources sparingly and to recycle efficiently. We must continue along this path consistently. Mr President! The tourism industry is growing strongly in Finland. Our country is valued as a tourist destination, for example, for clean nature, air, stability and security. It would also make sense for public administrations to invest more in this industry. The tourism sector employs young people in particular, and also in areas where employment is difficult, for example, because of remote location. The multiplier effect is also significant, as tourism contributes to the transport, construction and trade sectors, for example. One tourist euro brings an estimated 56 cents of added value to other industries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u537	Mr President! Yesterday, information was published on the establishment of a new top economics unit. The project is welcome. Research data is needed not only to understand the development of society but also to support decision-making. One of the results of economic research in recent years is a stronger view that monetary and fiscal policy can play a role in maintaining economic growth and prosperity. In the past, in recent decades, they have been viewed with doubts as to their importance in terms of the neutralisation of economic policies by the expectations of the market. At least the monetary stimulus of the European Central Bank seems to have worked. The growth of the euro area is on a broad footing. One crisis country after another has reached a growth path and has regained confidence in the financial markets. Fiscal policy should also be taken seriously. In the event of a downturn, you must not fall too far into the mouth-to-mouth rhetoric. The rising threat must be patient and avoid the temptation to distribute money to politically rewarding targets. And even harder: there must be patience in the upturn and even delay some sensible and necessary projects. Mr President! We are all pleased that the international economy has turned to a higher growth path than before. The international veto also extends to Finland. The orders of our export companies are met, and tourism brings additional revenue. Companies waiting for growth are investing, and a good cycle is underway. Of course, a turn of events is particularly pleasing to the government. In fact, the situation is particularly challenging. Right now, we need patience. We can't afford election budgets. The government has commended itself for curbing debt, but the objective may not be ambitious enough. The fact that labour market solutions are, at this time, more predictable increases the level of demand. It is precisely in this situation that coordination of wage settlements would have been necessary. Now such a tool is not available, and more is therefore required of the government's own actions. Mr President! It is now the right time to take measures to safeguard future growth, raising Finland's growth career to a higher level than its cyclically adjusted growth career. The prospect of long-term growth in the permille class is quite wide-ranging for the future. The main drivers of economic growth are labour force numbers and labour productivity. The government seems to have raised its hand in assessing the amount of labor. That won't be necessary. We have ways of increasing the proportion of employed persons of working age. First of all, the reform of family leave should be stepped up. The opportunities for family mothers and fathers to work must be safeguarded, and when things are spoken of in their proper names, it is precisely the reconciliation of mother’s work and family. The government has turned positive to the reform of family leave. However, we still have to see how committed the government really is. Is the government on the move with an open mind, or will it remain behind its ideological walls? The employment of family mothers is also promoted by promoting equal pay. The work must be worthwhile, too, and especially the work of working women. Finally, it is necessary to lift the restrictions on day-care without delay. The supply of labour can and must also be increased by facilitating the resolution of matching problems. Reducing adult education and training, the direct drop-off, means that the capacity of unemployed people to seek job vacancies is deteriorating. Mr President! More important than the supply of labour is its average productivity. Our well-being has so far been built on knowledge, and in the future, knowledge will become even more important. In past years and decades, Finland’s development has been driven by at least two factors. Each generation has been more educated, and Finland has tightened its skills ahead of others. Now they're both missing. The current trend will lead to fewer generations of older people entering the labour market than the previous ones and, in international comparison, we have fallen into the middle caste. Finland cannot survive in the middle caste. We have to catch up with the others and try to get back to the top. This is true of education and research and product development. Mr President! Financial information is needed and the government should be commended for the project to build it up, the new top unit. Hopefully it will provide information on the right solutions to support decision-making. I hope we already have a preliminary understanding of the direction in which the course should be directed: work, justice and knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u538	Mr President! The government's efforts to improve the economy have restored Finland's GDP to a positive growth path, and GDP is projected to grow by good 2 per cent next year. Exports are driving Finland up, and competitiveness has improved, as, according to the Government’s objective, unit labour costs have even fallen below Sweden. Finland’s relative share of world trade has started to grow. The European Central Bank has raised concerns about the strengthening of the euro, which may also undermine Finland's export competitiveness. Although the government has achieved a significant improvement in our economic situation, we are still in debt, and in the coming years there will be a particular need to close the sustainability gap. Consumer confidence has generally strengthened in both the personal and the Finnish economy, but the high level of household indebtedness – including housing debt has doubled in the 21st century – is also to be taken into account. Credit has also been obtained on favourable terms, and it is also worth remembering that banks have their own responsibility to provide the loan. Do we have any assurance that the current low and investment-friendly interest rates will continue in the future? Predictability in the economy is not easy, and we are also affected by relations between the USA and China, North Korea, the refugee situation in Africa and the increased threat of terrorism. Mr President! We can see, in a positive way, an increase in employment, and work is, after all, the best social security. Work also prevents exclusion and has a positive impact on individual well-being. In terms of inequality, adequate resources must be provided for training and access to employment for young people. Temporary interviews for the unemployed and the use of unemployment benefit to start a business and study for a short period of time are good steps. In the future, efforts will be made to tackle the problems of young people’s ability to work and to function as early as possible through the psychosocial support service package. For under 30-year-olds, the provision of pay support, training for work and guidance for new services will also be increased, from which service providers will only be paid for results, i.e. young people's progress in education or employment. The supply of vocational education and training will be increased by a thousand places of study, especially in sectors with labour shortages. Although the low and average incomes have also been in savings, improvements will be made by reducing early childhood education contributions by 70 million, exempting people with income below EUR 14000 per year from Yle-Tax, the lower limit of the solidarity tax will continue, raising the single parent increase in child benefit, increasing sickness and parental allowances, raising the child benefit by EUR 15, and reducing labour taxation by EUR 270 million, focusing on low and medium income. Of course, this is not enough, but it is good to continue. Mr President! As highlighted in the group statement, only entrepreneurship and jobs bring well-being to Finland. Times are challenging, but we blues in the government have also built Finland's common future, especially to ensure that the weak must never be left alone and the fallen must be helped, while we have taken responsibility for Finland's new rise after the lost decade of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u539	Mr President! The vision for the future defined by the Sipilä Government’s strategic programme emphasises that Finland will be a renewable, caring and safe country in 2025, where each of us can feel important. In addition, there should be trust in society. In fact, it is this fine-sounding vision of the future that highlights the main problems facing our society at the moment, to which I would like this draft budget to offer more relief. People’s inequalities are strongly marked by this time, and during the reign the situation has developed in a worse direction. A large number of people do not feel that society cares about them, and in an individual - centered course of life many are left behind and left out. The safety net provided by public services has been compressed into savings for a long time, and it also does not work in the best days. Inequality breeds bitterness and creates problems. Budget is one of the key ways to reduce inequality between Finns. The income gap is now increasing and thus inequality is increasing. The Government’s objective is to raise Finland’s economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment and to secure funding for public services and social security. The government is not sufficiently involved in the issue of inequality in order to eradicate it. The economic outlook is now more positive than it is for the moment. We in Varsinais-Suomi have also had signs of growth for quite some time, including the New Town Car Factory and Turku Shipyard. If we could just get those roads in better shape: the eight road, the ten road and the old Postitie, which is one of the oldest in Finland and is sometimes like a potato field. The central goal of the government is to break debt, which is a necessary measure for the future. The representative, Mr Savio, in his group speech, gave a good presentation of suggestions for improvements in the working and business world, which are easy to sign. High housing costs, especially in growth centres, were highlighted in this respect. The price of housing needs to be tackled more effectively. I would also like to see additional investment in commuting subsidies to promote labour mobility. "No" for a kilometer cut! Finnish companies and the demand for domestic labour must be ensured and foreign operators should not, for fiscal reasons, gain an unfair advantage, especially in labour-intensive sectors. The promotion of employment must be given serious attention and adequate resources must be guaranteed for the field work of the employment authorities. Many pensioners live below the poverty line. 337,000 pensioners receive less than EUR 1000 a month’s pension. The income of low-income pensioners is currently at an alarmingly low level. Housing, medicine, and other running expenses quickly eat up the account. The government does not seem to take the problems of deprived pensioners seriously on the basis of the draft budget. High-quality early childhood education requires sufficient resources to hire caring hands to take care of our small future factors. The quality and accessibility of education must be invested in all levels of education. This year's yellow book also states that high levels of education, functional early childhood education services and high-quality and free education are the foundation of Finnish society, but despite this, there does not seem to be enough funding for education. The present internal security situation is of widespread concern. This should be reflected even more in the funding of police action, among other things. This appropriation will be increased by around EUR 15 million from last year, but the harsh fact is that the amount in the draft budget is approximately EUR 6.5 million at frost compared to the 2016 situation. In view of the evolution of the security situation up to this day and the potential threats to the future, it is easy to say that the police are not sufficient. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to highlight the people who made it possible for Finland to exist independently. Our war veterans will no longer be seen indefinitely in the magazines of the yellow book. Now are the last moments to influence the affairs of these honorable citizens. They must be guaranteed adequate support and care services and, unfortunately, they will not be implemented with the current appropriations. All veterans of our wars, including those who are physically invulnerable, should be guaranteed uniform quality care services. Veterans' organizations are coming to Parliament again next week. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u540	Mr President! Government economic policy increases welfare debt, increases inequality and undermines the knowledge base. It is shortsighted to scrap the foundations of the Finnish welfare state, i.e. the well-being of citizens, equality and knowledge. The government seems to have forgotten the basic principle of the welfare state. Taxes collected with common funds organise common public services and secure livelihoods on the rocks of life, and taxation compensates for differences in income and wealth. Today's opening speech by the Minister of Finance on the spirit of rejecting the welfare state as he praised all kinds of tax cuts and cuts in public finances. We must remember what cuts in public finances mean in practice: cuts in social security, cuts in education, cuts in social and health care and declining infrastructure. In the long term, public finances must be balanced, but cutting public finances cannot be an absolute value, at least not in the Nordic welfare state. The question is: is the government no longer committed to building a welfare state? Big tax cuts on one hand mean cuts elsewhere. At least when I am on good income, I do not want to see tax cuts for myself, if that means cuts from the poor and cuts from education. Mr President! Is the government living in its own world? Does it not understand what cuts in social security and education mean in practice and in people's everyday lives? It is no wonder that we do not understand, because there is hardly any impact assessment of decisions. It is corny that the government praises its educational reforms when reality in vocational schools is reduced in local education, larger teaching groups and a deterioration in the quality of education. It is not fair that social security cuts and increases in contributions have not assessed the overall impact of measures on the lives of deprived people, which they are most concerned with. It seems that the government is really moving away from the everyday lives of its citizens. Do you think the Minister of Finance understands how, for example, the huge cut in student allowance that entered into force this autumn will affect the daily lives of many students? The EUR 80 reduction in monthly income may not be a large sum for the Minister, but it is a huge sum for ordinary students. For all students, the change in housing allowance has far from compensated for this major surgery. It must also be borne in mind that the cuts made by the government and their weightings are not an absolute necessity but the result of the choices made. If we had not even done some of the tax reductions of almost EUR 2 billion in favour of high incomes, then there would also be no need for such huge cuts in education and social security. Policy is always about choices, and values guide choices, and one has to ask what values the government makes choices with. Mr President! The power of a small country lies in civilization and the knowledge of the population. Huge cuts in education and research reduce Finland's strength. I am particularly concerned about the situation in vocational education and training. After huge savings, there is a very difficult situation in Finnish vocational schools. Concerns have been expressed regarding the completion of schools for young people whose professional qualifications are not met. Deterioration of the quality of education can lead to growing interruptions and exclusions when education does not seem meaningful or diminishing in the local education institution. It is also necessary to ask what these cuts do to the skills of Finns and the situation of companies. The budget also cuts vocational adult education and training in labour market policies. This is short-sighted in a situation where many unemployed people need an update on their skills in a changing labour market. I therefore hope that the Committee on Budgets will respond to the emergency call for vocational training and cancel the cuts planned for next year during the budgetary procedure. Mr President! Funding for R & D and innovation will continue to be reduced in the budget, even though it is the most effective and efficient business support to support economic renewal and job creation. The overall review of business subsidies is still awaiting its implementation. There was no readiness to do so in the mid-term debate, but it was decided to set up a parliamentary working party to reflect on the matter. Well, that's good, and all the support for the task force. Mr President! Sometimes with a little effort, you get a lot of results. Finally, I would like to highlight one such project. By investing around EUR 12 to 15 million to electrify the Tornio track, Finland would be able to open a functioning line to our western neighbour. The electrification of the track would make it possible to open up both freight and passenger traffic to Sweden, and here is the subject in which the
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u541	Mr President! The state budget is perhaps the most important value barometer in society. It values the needs and incomes of citizens together in a clear document. That's why it doesn't really matter what this thick yellow book contains. We are now in a booming phase. It is perhaps even better than anyone dares to admit — good so that we can be careful with this growing income. By the end of 2018, GDP will grow by approximately 21 billion. It's a significant increase. At the same time, unemployment expenditure is falling and many of the resulting costs are also falling. It is claimed that there is no distribution reserve at all — well, there is no allocation margin if all this is used to shorten the debt, but it may not be the best way to manage the money, that everything is put in the hands of that debt, so you would have imagined and thought that the lowest incomes would also have been cut off from this success that has now begun and from this growing income. When the Minister of Finance presented the budget, he spoke of sustainable well-being. A pair of words is important, but it does not appear very much in this budget proposal, and if he were there, I would ask him what it means for him to be well-being. When Finland was experiencing a great upturn in the 1980s, Finland built Finland together. There was still a drawing of community, and there was still that famous spirit in which it felt like we are now making Finland successful together. There was a lot of work to do, and people's income grew, people's property increased, and everyone remembers that time, perhaps during the most comfortable time in Finnish history, until the recession came. Mr President! In this proposal, which the Minister for Finance has now brought to us, there are many small points that make life miserable for many people on low incomes. Real estate taxes are rising: this means that company charges usually rise in these very blocks of flats, where people living on low incomes live. Indirect taxes are increasing, although it is said that the overall tax rate is falling. The child's deduction is off. It'll increase expenses. Many wonder how to find out while the right to deduct interest on a mortgage is reduced. Mr President! The administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice will continue to be reduced by EUR 13 million as a whole, but there will be small lights of light, because the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs has been carefully read in the Ministry of Finance and more money will be added to the courts for the rapid handling of asylum complaints, more money will be available for financial and debt advice and more money will be available for the training of prosecutors and for the prevention of radicalisation in prisons. The Criminal Sanctions Agency will also receive more money. These were all points raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I am pleased about that as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. But still, the 13 million - million - cut, which is reflected in legal security, cannot be considered a good development. We will certainly come to the KD in our own alternative budget to fill these gaps, such as the continuation of child reduction. We will put the fight against this grey economy at the centre. In particular, we will increase the funding for education so that Finland retains its position as one of the leading countries in the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u542	Mr President! The debate on referrals to the 2018 state budget has been very interesting to hear, and one might say that it has to be wondered, after hearing the opposition's statements at that early stage, that it is no longer a good thing that the economy is developing. We need to remember where Finland left from. The recession that began in October 2008 was due to Europe’s unbridled debt — even though it was called the Lehman Brothers crisis, yet Europe was in debt — and Finland was in a situation where a large part of our exports were cut and 8% of GDP left. Now that Sipilä's government started, the goal was to get Finland on the rise, and that is what has happened. One can say that in all the main economic sectors Finland's economy is growing. This was proved the other Friday by Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland, in his good presentation to the Little Parliament, in which he went through all the aspects of Finland’s economy perfectly — an excellent presentation, and if anyone was not present, I resent him. The fact is, however, that Finland's economy is growing, that there are 20,000 fewer long-term unemployed than one year ago and that some 50,000 people have been employed in the last year, which means that the direction is the right one. When I have heard speeches in this Chamber that we have unemployment and difficulties, it is true that every word is true, but the direction is the right one. Does anyone in the opposition think that we could correct this eight-year economy in the wrong direction in one or two years? Every reasonable person knows that this is an impossible task. We must ensure that the food for growth is kept alive. Unfortunately, I have heard public speeches from various quarters that the so-called allocation should now be used. Like Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo and also Prime Minister Juha Mr Sipilä said, either directly or indirectly, that there was no allocation. Mr President, there is no such allocation. But what's the divider? The divider is that in this country we finally get more and more of those wheels rolling, people to work. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Finland has spent at its worst EUR 7 billion a year on unemployment from the state budget. It is such a huge sum that every person who is made to pay taxes to work and pay his own pension cover himself will reduce government spending very drastically, the employment of one person, and then, in return, he will produce a plus for the tax revenue of the state and society. When we remember this and then appreciate the fact that government policy bites in the right direction, we are quite strong. We know that a huge number of reforms have been carried out. In my country, North Karelia, for example, there were many road projects last summer, which was gladly received. New investments have also been made, and large investments have been made in Finland, for example, which are also reflected in the future tax collections in the yellow budget book: for example, this pulp mill in Äänekoski Metsä Group, a so-called bioproduct factory, which is probably one of the finest, if not the finest, in European terms, and its economic effects are visible all the way to Ilomants. Similarly, the construction site of Meyer Werft shipyard, which is developing all the time in Turku and where new investments are to be made, is also visible in the region of North Karelia. Joptek factory in Lieksa will probably get different orders from there, different subcontracting tasks that are all its own and bring new jobs to that company. That too is almost a hundred people — well, less than a hundred people, however, it is, but very significant From the point of view of the regional economy. So on this point we must now see over these old walls of prejudice from the past and see the economic development that has been positive. We must remember, however, that next year, the State will continue to absorb almost EUR 3 billion of its additional debt. So the economy is not in balance. Recently, after hearing the opposition’s various speeches and reading the media news, it seems as if the money was right to splash. This is just not the case. And it will only be when there is a surplus in the budget of the state, and it is precisely by means of debt-taking that we have been able to make a debt payment. Juha The objective of the Sipilä Government's action is that by 2021 at the latest we will end borrowing and will be able to pay off our debt, because if we do not pay our debts, it will lead to our losing our creditworthiness, and that is not even the opposition's hope, I know for sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u543	Mr President! The only sustainable and responsible way to take care of the economy is to raise employment significantly higher than at present. Researchers have estimated that it is only with an employment rate of up to 80% that we will be able to respond to the fall in the number of working-age people resulting from a deteriorating dependency ratio. One or even a few years of good economic growth will not eliminate the fact that the structural problems of our economy are still unresolved. The ageing population and the declining workforce together represent a serious challenge to the financing of our welfare services. We still urgently need structural changes, such as family leave reform and the promotion of local reconciliation. The rising season must be used wisely. Now, if ever, is the opportune time to launch rapid structural reforms in order to increase employment rates and ensure continued growth. I don't want my gloves to fall off. We need to take advantage of this turn. Mr President! It is important that we also discuss inequalities and differences in income. During the last few decades, income differentials have mainly been fluctuating according to the economic cycle. It should be noted that the effects on the distribution of income cannot be assessed for long-term employment effects and therefore cannot be assessed for the final impact on income differentials. Work is the best social security. It is also a means of closing the sustainability gap in Finland. Increasing the employment rate can reduce inequality and increase well-being. We must do everything in our power to create more work and opportunities for livelihood in Finland. It has been said in this Chamber on several occasions today that the government should cancel the holiday allowance cuts it has made. As has already been said many times, these cuts have not been made by the government but have been agreed by the social partners. The Board of Directors has compensated almost entirely for the impact of holiday allowance cuts on employees' disposable incomes with a reduction in income tax. Reducing inequality is an important objective. It should be possible to increase the level of basic security from now on. However, this will not be possible without a comprehensive reform of social security if there is no desire to increase social security expenditure as a whole. It is very challenging to achieve this objective without having any incentive effects. However, this work has now been initiated by the government, and hopefully the next government will be able to implement this reform by the latest. Mr President! It is great that, for the first time under the leadership of the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, the draft budget includes a review of the integration of sustainable development. In preparing the draft budget for 2019, this approach will be introduced more widely. In its energy and climate strategy, the Government has set ambitious targets for achieving emission reductions. The budget will provide EUR 25 million for next year for the implementation of the energy and climate strategy. We need even more ambitious measures to achieve the agreed objectives. The draft budget contains important contributions to environmental protection and the achievement of climate policy objectives. EUR 1 million will be earmarked for the implementation of the medium-term climate policy plan next year. In addition, the Government will invest nearly EUR 3.5 million in the rehabilitation of contaminated land and will propose an additional EUR 1.7 million for water treatment rehabilitation projects and a key project for the recovery of migratory fish stocks. Mr President! Next year's budget also has important investments in knowledge and education. Equality in comprehensive schools will be strengthened by increasing funding for equality in schools operating in challenging areas by EUR 25 million. In addition, the Government proposes additional investments in research. An example is the increase in the mandate of the Academy of Finland by EUR 25 million. Early childhood education is a pedagogical and planned educational activity that has an impact on the children’s school path. In Finland, the participation rate of early childhood education has been lowest in the Nordic countries, and now the direction is finally changing. The Government will reduce early childhood education fees by a total of EUR 70 million from 1 January 2018. With this, 6,700 families come to free early childhood education. At the same time, the sibling discount on early childhood education payments will be increased to 50%. These are the right actions, which not only eliminate incentives traps, but also allow more people to participate in early childhood education. It is also great that next year a free-of-charge early childhood education experiment will be launched, with a budget of EUR 5 million. Professionals in early childhood education do important work. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u544	Mr President! The economy has grown, and that is a good thing. The problem, however, is that the sharing of the joint cake will be more unequal: those with little will be taken the most, and those with much will be given more. During the last term of government, poverty and inequality decreased. Now this positive development has turned in the opposite direction. Nevertheless, the government is consciously making a budget which will further increase this negative development. The differences between income and health are increasing. Some pay cuts in the form of holiday money, among other things, and some receive more and more bonuses and supplementary pensions. Some even have to choose between food and medicine. More and more Finns are seeking food from bread lines. Some already well-paid people are being given new tax relief. In all of this, we can well see the values of the government and whose interests it serves. Mr President! Last week, Parliament addressed sustainable development and its future policy. From this point of view, the decisions of the government are also worrying. Sustainable development includes the ability to think in the longer term. One of the most important tools in future work is making reasonable future investments and calculating alternative costs. The government has failed to do both. One of the most important investments in the future is investing in children and young people. According to studies, high-quality early childhood education is the best future investment, and therefore the restoration of subjective day care rights and the reduction of group sizes would be important for the future. For example, children of the unemployed are currently in a very unequal position across Finland. Some of them receive early childhood education only half a day, and in some other municipalities they have access to full - time early childhood education. President! It would be wise to invest in active labour market policies, in the treatment of young people and long-term unemployment. On the other hand, the government has cut heavily from active labour policy and employment budgets. For the unemployed, it's mostly just an extra stick. On Monday, I attended one of the client boards of the unemployed, where I asked these experts about the current situation. After all, the government has praised the fact that interviews with unemployed people every three months work well. That is not the case. Among other things, I was told the following story: "In the case of unemployment, even years have The Mol.fi website received information that I will be contacted after three months. I waited. When exactly three months had passed, I waited all day for a phone call. I didn't hear it. I went to the mol.fi website to look at my information, and it was said that the next time you contact me after three months, the applicant has agreed that he will continue to seek work independently. It took me another three months, and I was waiting for a call or a letter. No, I didn't. Another message had come to the Mol.fi pages that I had been agreed to continue looking for work independently. They must have made up with each other there, because no one ever had contact with me. I tried calling there several times, but I never got through on the phone. Then suddenly a phone call came from the TE Office. The call lasted about five minutes. The clerk asked me about my current situation. I told them that I was looking for an independent job, and they said on the phone that well, that's very good, and they promised to call back after three months." Is this what this three-monthly interview is? Is this how you help the unemployed to find employment? Mr President! And finally, with a little bit of kiosk. Regardless of the background of the holiday allowance cuts, the fact is that they have very bad consequences, which reduce equality, because holiday allowance cuts increase wage differentiation. In the private sector, wages will increase by 0.6 per cent, but the wages of local government employees will decrease by 1.1 per cent this year. The wage bill of the Competitiveness Pact strikes particularly women-dominated sectors. Nearly three-quarters of public sector employees and 80% of employees in the municipal sector are women. Thirty per cent of holiday allowances are cut in these areas. This comes on top of the extension of the working time of the competitiveness agreement. Now that there are flashes of light in the economy and employment, it would be worth correcting this unequal cost savings and giving up holiday allowance cuts and strengthening equality in working life between women and men. This solution would correct the government's teardown.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u545	Mr President! Much has been said today about this competitiveness pact, and the reduction in holiday money is indeed something which, in my opinion, was also a flagrant flaw in the competitiveness pact. I was amazed at it myself, which is why the workers finally came to the conclusion that only the public part of the holiday money was being cut. I do agree with the previous speaker that if the social partners found a solution that would treat people who work differently fairly and not just these low- and medium-income workers on the local and public side, I would be happy to accept such a change myself. But, of course, this change cannot be made by the government of our country, for it is not even within the remit of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u546	Now for the reply, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then we come back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u547	Mr President! As I said, regardless of why this is the case, this correction should be made, because this really increases the inequality between women and men in working life and also increases the pay gap. On the other hand, from the background to this, however, I would like to say that many employees in the municipal sector did feel that this government’s mid-term competitiveness pact had even more severe coercive laws in the background. Of course, I have not been there myself, but the trade union movement has told me that they chose between plague and cholera, that either of them had to choose, and then they chose a smaller evil, and that is why they agreed to these public sector holiday payments cuts. On the other hand, in this situation, I think that we have had enough discussion here about why. We should look from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u548	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u549	Then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u550	Värderade Herr Talman! Ålands självstyrelselag har de Senaste 95åren utvecklats i flera repriser. Den Senaste självstyrelselage trädde i kraft 1995, då bland you give nuvarande ekonomiska system mellan staten, riket och självstyrelsen trädde i kraft. Det ekonomiska systemet har inte uppdateratats sedan dess, och situationen med systemet börjar för Ålands del bli allt mer ohållbar. Nuvarande system bygger på att alla på Åland betalar statsskatt till staten precis som alla andra. Det ox syns dock inte på ett spececiellt stanlle i budgeten effectersom de bull skatterna jätts i momma pott som alla andra skater. Av de raus skatterna får Åland sedan tillbaka 0.45 percent av statens samlade katteintäkter, exclusive statens låneupptagning. Det ox syns i statsbudgeten som en utgiftspost. Det har ibland framställts som att det ox skulle rett ekonomiskt bidrag till Åland, men så är det inte, utan det är en del av de pengar som ålänningarna har betalat in som på den posten överförs tillbaka effectsom procentsatsen 0,45 används Oberoende av vad som betalas in. Åland är en god skattebetalare effectsom sysselsättningen är god, på 82 percent och arbetslösheten är under 4 percent. Problemet är att den avräkningsprocent inte har justerats sedan det ox systemet trädde i kraft för över 20 år sedan. Då systemet trädde i kraft var Ålands andel av den finländska befolkningen 0,48 percent, i dag är Ålands andel av befolkningen nänstan 0,53 percent. Ålands befolkning har ökat med 16 percent sedan systemet trädde i kraft medan landets befolkning som ökat med bara 8 percent. Men trots att befolkningen ökar så snabbt får Åland ändå mosma 0.45 i klumpsum. Det auri gör att Ålands offentliga ekonomistorfår ett underskott trots att sysselsättningen är mycket god. För desto fler arbetsplatser som skapas — vilket är bra för staten och hela Finland — desto mind blir de offentliga inkomsterna per capita till Åland. Åland är nu ett samhalle med knappt 30000 invånare, strikt ekonomiskt skulle det vara battre om Åland bara hade 10000 invånare med dagens ekonomiska system. För med dagens system skulle då Åland fortsättningsvis få 0,45 percent i klumpsum. Men vivill inte bli mindre, vi vivill växa, vi vivill ha tillväxt, vi vivill skapa nya företag och vi vivill vara med och utveckla economist i landet. Men för att kunna göra det måste också den offentliga economist utvecklas i takt med den privata economist, precis som på alla andra platser i landet. Så är det inte i dag. Åland har därför länge arbetat för att klumpsumun ska justeras för att motsvara dagens verklighet. Det är inte bara befolkningen som har växt. Bolagiseringen av vi av statens verksamheter och EU-medlemskapets ökade byråkrati har också påverkat sum of rejält negativt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u551	Mr President! The world economy has been growing for several years now, and Finland has also been receiving a boost from the upturn. Government measures have contributed to and enabled economic growth, but there is still work to be done. The Government's draft budget for next year is set at EUR 3 billion in deficit. The allocation of economic resources is, in part, quite incomprehensible. The hardest part is still to swallow the high costs of asylum seekers. Although the number of applicants has fallen since the 2015 asylum seekers crisis, the unit cost of reception has not decreased in the same proportion. Social services for illegal residents are being funded and development funds are being increased, in practice, by debt. This was not the case with the Finns on the board, but the budget for development cooperation was cut. Now it seems that this kind of brake has been removed from the government. The value and motto of our Finns are: first Finnish work and enterprise, and if there is money and time, then world healing. Mr President! The emphasis on internal security in the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector is in the right direction, but the allocation of funding is surprising. In accordance with last spring's decision on spending limits, a total of EUR 34.5 million will be allocated to the police next year in order to secure police resources and, in particular, to strengthen the fight against hate speech and extremism. In the August budget debate, the government decided to propose an additional amount of EUR 12 million for next year to the police and the protection police to combat terrorism and cyber threats and to prevent radicalisation. In other words, nearly 35 million to eradicate hate speech and extremism and 12 million to combat terrorism. Both are important things, of course, but are these figures in the right direction? It is clear that terrorism at its worst causes deaths, unlike hate speech on the Internet, which results mainly in pointless trials. I have to ask the government: do you think that the allocation of internal security appropriations has been entirely successful? Mr President! Less than two hours ago we heard when the Prime Minister finally admitted that the current immigration is completely out of control — that is, completely out of control. As such, it is an interesting presentation of this model of quota refugees presented by the Prime Minister. This is my personal opinion now, but I believe that the Finns of Peru could even accept the increase in the number of quota refugees, for example, to 2000 if our country’s borders were no longer uncontrollably marched by people from any direction. After all, these refugee camps have the women and children who are genuinely in need of help, why not the men. The Finns also want to help them if resources can be allocated exclusively to these people. This is not only a matter of Finland's decision-making power, it is a matter common to the EU, and I venture to suspect that such a common agreement will not be reached on those tables. Earlier here in the Chamber, the money for the return of asylum seekers returning voluntarily from the basic Finns line was backed up, and I would point out that the return money is already being paid, but this government is about to give a raise to those returning voluntarily.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u552	Mr President! In this way, there was an important line in the previous speech that the Finns are in favour of the Prime Minister’s line that the number of quota refugees could be increased. That is a good thing because we all know that quota refugees are chosen on the basis of good judgement, and in that sense it can be said that the humanitarian criterion is much greater than in these other situations of immigration. Hopefully, the Finns of Finland will continue to support Prime Minister Sipilä's line in order to reach decisions that are humanly right and also acceptable to Finnish citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u553	Mr President! Mr Rantakangas, I myself understood that Mr Ronkainen specifically meant that the number of asylum seekers could be increased if the government were to make such a policy that it would not just walk uncontrollably across the border.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u554	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u555	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u556	Once again, Mr Hautala, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u557	Mr. Speaker! The asylum debate actually forgets the current situation. The problem at the moment is that recipients of a negative asylum decision are reapplying for a new asylum application. At the moment, 3,600 so-called new applications have been submitted to us this year, but there are only a thousand new asylum seekers. In other words, around 1600 are those who have already made a new application in addition to the previous rejected decision, and then around 2000 applications are those that have come as a transfer, so to speak. In other words, what we should be able to do is to prevent it from happening in such a way that, if someone has received a negative decision, he would not be able to submit a new application on any other basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u558	Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u559	Värderade Talman! Budgetproposition för nista år innehåller få överraskningar. Vista detaljer gör mig besviken medan andra detaljer glädjer mig. Budgetförslaget är tämligen visionenslöst och därmed lyser åtgärderna med sin frånvaro. Det stora problemet och den stora bristen i propositionen är brissten på åtgärdshelheter som skulle föra Finland framåt beslutsamt och visionärt. För det står helt klart, utan reformer klarar sig Finland inte. Jag vill gärna nämna några exempel på större reformer Finland behöver. Arbetsmarknaden fungerar inte så flexibelt som den brode, till exempel öt inte efterfrågan och utbud. Vi kunde med fördel titta på viika delar av den danska modellen som passar in i våra förhållanden. Socialskyddet förhindrar via sin stela struktur att ta estrot arbete. Vi behöver ett mer flexibelt socialskydd som beaktar det factum att arbetsmarknaden förändrat radikalt och andelen som till exempel sysselsätter sig själva, eller som jobbar inom så kallade snutt-arbetsförhållanden harökat. År 2010 skedde också en dramatisk förändring på arbetsmarknaden då färre kom in på arbetsmarknaden än de som lämnade arbetsmarknaden. En åldrande befolkning med ökande servicebehov och för för få på arbetsmarknaden kräver resoluta åtgärder för att vi ska kunna upprätthålla vår nordiska valfärdsmodell. Var dröjer dessa nödvändiga åtgärder?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u560	Mr President! We can be satisfied with the Government's draft budget. The government is investing in key projects. It is good to know, however, that the level of funding is raised, among other things, by rising pension expenditure, which is not facilitated by our unbalanced dependency ratio. On the other hand, adjustment measures, reduced immigration expenditure and also falling unemployment security expenditure reduce the level of appropriations. The budget deficit is 2.5 billion less than last year, i.e. approximately 3 billion. Interest expenditure on central government debt is estimated at approximately EUR 1.2 billion. It is approximately EUR 100 million less than in the 2017 actual budget. Mr President! The development of inequality has been highlighted today in a number of speeches. It is therefore necessary to increase the employment rate in order to prevent the development of inequalities, as well as because of our imbalanced dependency ratio, which I mentioned earlier. It may be difficult to say who is really rich in this country, where progressive taxation is high, and recently even those with high incomes, whose own economy has been out of control, and they have been caught up in such debt spirals. However, my nephew, a 19-year-old, was as happy as a lottery winner after having obtained his first paid job — after all his life’s work — as a forest machine driver. This would not have been possible without the quality of vocational training that this government is reforming in order to secure a wider range of lives. Mr President! The Government's measures to prevent exclusion also support internal security, whose resources are at the heart of next year's budget. The operational activities of the police, the protection police and the Border Guard will be invested. Police performance and response to terrorist acts and demanding special situations have been developed for years. The strategy to combat terrorism will also be updated. The Government will continue to implement the action plan against illegal immigration. Mr President! On the opposition side, there were concerns about illegal residents, and they even put the elderly and their fundamental rights against the necessary costs of these illegal residents. However, for their information, the return policy will be further enhanced with the support of EU cooperation and efforts to reach new cooperation protocols on return and EU readmission agreements and speed up the removal of offenders. In addition, the national civilian crisis management capacity allocation will be increased by EUR 300000 from just over EUR 1.4 million to just over EUR 1.7 million. The smoothness of the Finnish Immigration Service's permit matters, the adequacy of resources and the functioning of the customer service and regional office network will be ensured. Mr President! These re-applications of asylum seekers were raised here, and there was great concern about them. I myself have been conducting an asylum investigation in the past, and even then, in the case of these re-applications, an accelerated procedure was in place, particularly in those cases where there were no new grounds. After all, these new arguments include changing religion or getting married, but all in all, I would not see this as such a problem because there are already processes that can be used many times to re-apply without significant new arguments. That may not be such a big problem. However, the Finnish Immigration Service, the police and the government have responded to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u561	Mr President! In this short five minutes, I would like to raise one aspect of this state budget proposal, page 9. We're talking about employment here. In particular, I am talking about the employment and other needs of young people. The government has a very good grip on taking employment and unemployment seriously. For example, page 9 says that the use of unemployment benefit for starting a business and for short-term studies is possible, and for this purpose an additional allocation of EUR 13.5 million will be allocated to unemployment benefit appropriations. These are very good measures to cut red tape so that, during the period of unemployment benefit, entrepreneurship and short-term learning can be tried out, which allows people to enter the labour market. We need more measures of this kind. Similarly, in order to facilitate youth unemployment and meet skills needs, this book proposes an increase in the supply of vocational education and training over a thousand student years, with an additional allocation of EUR 9.4 million. However, when we know how much more study places are needed, especially in the capital region, the increase in the number of students in this thousand year alone is not enough. That is not enough if we are able to catch, for example, those young people who are around 45000 outside education and employment or who are not in the military service. If we can guide them into this training line, these places will not be enough. At the moment, we are also cleaning up many young people, so to speak, for workshops and other courses, and this draft budget also proposes an allocation of EUR 8 million for the permanent operation of the flight decks, for example. I have nothing against cockpit activity, but just such measures, which, as it were, confront a person and give a sort of directional sign to go, are not enough for those young people who have accumulated a lot of social and mental problems. We know that NEETs have a very large percentage of psychological and psychiatric problems, for example, and they also have criminal convictions and many other challenges in life, and therefore they should be created and offered permanent, permanent paths that could provide them with an individual, tailor-made path back to life. Mr President! I would hope that there will be people in the government who will start to drive a so-called workshop model in which, in addition to cabs, young people will be directed to services where they will receive adequate support. For example, a good reform of the government's vocational school at the beginning of next year will make it possible for students who fall out of vocational school — more than 15% and up to 25% depending on the region — to have an alternative path of learning. According to my own experience and many of the information I have received, the third sector in particular, a large number of organisations, such as those operating on the Light Training Model, are able to produce comprehensive study modules broken into pieces. Together with support for housing and support staff and leisure activities, for example, they produce results that I believe should be supported. This support and arrest of marginalised young people and young people at risk of exclusion will be too thin if we only rely on existing systems. Municipalities and the state alone will not be able to respond to 24/7 needs when young people need more comprehensive support than they are currently offered. Mr President! When the time runs out for this time, I would like to thank the government for having good measures to prevent the exclusion of young people, and I hope that more will be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u562	Mr President! This year's budget is based on the Government Programme of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government. Even during this parliamentary term, we have seen how determined the programme has been in the government programme, and when we look at the budget for this year, for example, it has been a key factor in improving employment in our country, which is that, according to the latest statistics, around 50,000 jobs are more than one year ago, of which about 20,000 are access to the jobs of the long-term unemployed. So a very ambitious programme is scheduled for next year. The economy is growing faster than the euro area and forecasts are close to 3% for the current year and more than 2% for next year. Next year, we're gonna lose our debt. Nevertheless, we are still taking some EUR 3 billion in debt, but this deleveraging is very important for future generations. Budgets are always given a name, and this budget for next year has been called the budget for employment, mediating, knowledge and security. Firstly, with regard to employment, we have seen that youth unemployment has fallen, and so will it be next year. There will be about a thousand new training places for vocational training, and access to skilled labour will also be secured. Thus, the government and Parliament are moving towards the employment rate of 72 per cent. It is also important in terms of employment that labour taxation is not tightened. A reduction in income tax will be granted to all income recipients of approximately EUR 270 million, which will be covered by higher taxes on alcohol, heating oil and tobacco. The budget for mediation can well be justified by increasing maternity allowance, increasing maternity, paternity and parental allowance, increasing guarantee pension, abolishing the early childhood education contribution from around 6,700 families and 50% of the sister discount. The abolition of VAT from the smallest income recipients is also significant. The reform of family leave will also be launched and it is extremely important to take into account the fact that freedom of choice remains for families. Study families with children are supported, among other things, through the separation of care. This can be called the knowledge budget because the share of equality in comprehensive school will be increased by around EUR 25 million, teachers' initial and continuing training will be developed and conversion training will be used. Business Finland, i.e. combining Tekes and Finpro so that customers are served on the one-stop shop principle. In addition, various resources will be increased both to innovation and to increase loan capacity. This can be called a budget for security, in particular because the resources of both the police, the protection police and the Border Guard are being increased. This investment of almost EUR 50 million is necessary in this security situation. The important thing is that we are able to keep the number of policemen there in over 7200. However, as far as the police administration is concerned, it is essential that the so-called centralisation of police stations is stopped and that as many of these police stations as possible be within police facilities. Mr President! This government's draft budget is well suited to Finland, which celebrates a hundred years, a welfare state that invests both in employment, care, knowledge and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u563	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike the previous one, next year's budget will be amassed in the face of slight growth and moderate growth expectations. The focus is shifting from cutting to supporting growth and distributing its fruit, although in part the policy of cutting continues. At the same time, government debt continues. The main gaps in the draft budget are the lack of decisions to support employment and the uneven distribution of the fruits of growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u564	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u565	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u567	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u568	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u569	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u570	All right, looks like we're gonna need a little debat. Let us take a brief round of replies. It will be initiated by Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u571	Mr President! Mr Taimela's speech was good, but it must have been overlooked by Mr Taimela, as does the demarcation group in general, that growth is very heavy compared to the previous situation if we leave the situation where 100,000 more unemployed people were born and there was an increase in government debt. Now we are about to get this absurd situation under control. You have to see where you're from, not where you're from. This direction goes on and on. As far as these remarks by Mr Taimela are concerned, the government has withdrawn some projects, the government programme is strategic, as you know. I see you've read it. Of course, the government's proposals have been filed and still filed. As Prime Minister Sipilä has sometimes said in some context when dealing with government policy, if there are good proposals from the opposition, then do them. But there hasn't been any. We have heard fierce criticism of how bad things are, but if we compare them with previous governments, I would venture to disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u572	Mr President! Rarely do you hear such a contradictory speech as a representative Mr Taimela's speech was that you criticised the fact that some decisions have been withdrawn, and now in your own speech you are telling us to withdraw decisions, those decisions which, however, now have the Finnish economy on the rise. Compared to the last period, there were 100,000 more unemployed and the economy went down, and now a correction has been achieved: this year's economy plus 2.9 per cent, next year's forecasts for more than 2 per cent and 50,000 new jobs. So these procedures have been bitten. The measures that have been taken with regard to the economy have been bit. More people have been brought to work and thus well-being in this society. We still cannot make a great deal of money, for we will still be taking on more debt next year than we will be making. This development we must be able to reverse so that we can once again share the cake of well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u573	Mr President! After Mr Savola's speech, it is good to continue that, once the economic transition has taken place, we have more room for manoeuvre in the economy so that we can make more social, fair decisions. We know that this budget does not save everything and everyone, and that is why social justice is done in support of families and children, for example. We have many benefits that can now be improved, such as minimum maternity, paternity and parental allowance. Studying family members have long been waiting for a guardian raise, and that is now being done. There are many good things about early childhood education, such as that the number of families entering the zero pay category will increase by thousands of families. It is known that the opposition may think that these investments are small, but we are on the road to making more of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u574	Mr President! There is a difference between the fact that there has been a Minister of Finance for Social Democrats in the country and the fact that there is now a Minister of Finance from the United States. The biggest difference is in this setting, which has been made specifically in tax matters. Now all ideas, all measures have been taken from a work perspective and ways of strengthening work and employment have been sought. The aim is not to tighten labour taxation, as has been done in the past, but to apply for a boost to the domestic market, precisely where growth was first made work, and at the moment growth is more widespread. Now we are able to invest and correct these measures, which were also taken during the previous government. The equality allowance for comprehensive school is one example of this. Reduction in early childhood education fees, single parent increase in child allowances, family increase in student support, reform of family leave, increase in guarantee pension and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u575	Mr President! As Mr Heinonen said, during the last parliamentary term, taxation really increased every year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u576	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u577	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u578	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u579	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u580	Mr President! The Social Democrats have called for a change of direction here, and that would mean that now that we have an increase in the economy and unemployment is falling, you would like the economy to go down again, as it was during the previous government when you were in power. Hopefully this will not happen, but it is excellent that now all our indicators point in a good direction across Finland, as well as there in Lapland and Varsinais-Suomi, in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u581	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u582	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u583	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u584	And now I think it is reasonable to give Mr Taimela a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u585	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u586	All right, and then we'll go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u587	Mr. Speaker! When this government of Prime Minister Sipilä began more than two years ago, the situation in the country was going down hard. The previous government had increased its debt by nearly EUR 30 billion and increased its debt burden to nearly EUR 100 billion. Unemployment rates were record, exports were not high, and we did not receive money from abroad so that we could maintain the welfare state. The public was also in recession, and people’s views were not very great. I thought that the government's mission seemed impossible. Moreover, debt-taking continued at a rate of EUR 5 billion per year. Public finances in relation to GDP were at the top of the OECD. The investments were in recession. Over a decade of planned and planned reform of social and health care had just fallen. Then, when the government started to correct the situation, the objective was to increase employment, stimulate business activity, put an end to debt-making and reduce the public sector to savings and structural reforms. Mr. Speaker! When I myself have done my life’s work mainly in basic health care, many of the problems of people have become familiar. I know that there are indeed many disadvantaged people in this country, for whom, for example, the pharmaceutical liability of fifty or the liability of sick trips is big money. Against this background, many reductions in social security and other savings in public finances have been rather bitter. And that’s why I had to ask: ‘ Has this been worth the trouble? 49,000 people and their families say that there have been — thanks to government action and, of course, to international growth, so many more people are working than they were a year ago. The economy in the fatherland has begun to grow. This year's GDP growth is in the order of 3%, and according to the recently arrived Finnish Research Institute, growth can be over 3.5% this year. Finland has invested. New jobs have been created, even in such a way that specific measures have had to be taken at regional level to get a job. Business is being facilitated, unnecessary standards are being dismantled, public administration structures have already been reformed, and these reforms and deregulation will continue with the budget under discussion. Mr. Speaker! Separately, I would like to highlight the government's debt. Next year, the debt is going to be less than seven years. In line with the Government Programme, the economic plan under discussion aims to put an end to the debt-taking process within the next four years. Yet there is a great deal of debt and there is still enough to pay our grandchildren. That is why this budget has given some attention to families with children. We need children in Finland, whether we talk about childbirth or not. Significant corrections include, for example, increases in the lowest maternity and parental funds and maternity allowance. The child supplement for single parents is small, but it also supports families with children. Reductions in early childhood education fees for the most low-income families are also significant. Of course, I recognise that these benefits for families with children are small and insufficient, but if this line were to continue in the future. In addition to the big lines and major reforms and the positive news, we also need that future faith-building action right there at the grassroots level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u588	Mr President! You can say that strong central government finances are the best basic security of all, and in particular you can say that the best basic security for low-income Finns is to ensure that the state does not become distressed or over-debted. It can also be said that, unfortunately, this government will have to put forward a budget of almost 3 billion in debt next year, but the most important thing is that the direction of debt and debt is now the right one. Until a couple of years ago, EUR 7.5 billion in debt was raised, this year's budget amounted to EUR 5.4 billion. However, it seems that this economic growth, which has been achieved, is turning the situation into a figure likely to be much lower than we have anticipated. One might say that if we had not made this change of direction for Finland, we would be in a screaming loss. We would be faced with continued austerity measures, cutting spirals, forced to balance the state economy. Why do I say "if we don't", which means I use the word "we"? That's why I'm saying it, like a representative here. Taimela, too, said in his good speech in that debate that those entrepreneurs there in the field have done a great deal for this turn — it is absolutely true. But I particularly want to bring forward the Finnish workers. They have been part of this economic growth. Some have paid a rather high price for it, for example through the increased working hours of the kiky agreement or through the need to cut holiday money once the social partners have agreed that this savings will be made through it. You don't have to belittle these things. It can therefore be said that all Finns have been working together to reverse this trend. But it would not have happened without the government showing leadership by what measures will be taken to achieve this. That's why I have to say thank you. The Sipilä Government that these measures, which have actually been taken to balance the state finances and reverse the direction of Finland, have been correct and have worked, and now we are in a very different situation from that of two or three years ago, when we had a downward spiral. Now it's fixed. Reforms have now been made, but we can move on to the development phase. Mr President! There has also been a hard debate in the debate about whether income inequality has increased in Finland and what this budget is causing. It is clear that when tax adjustments are made or so-called tax increases have to be made, in this case, for example, an increase in the tax on tobacco, it will affect a particular population more than another. But then you can ask the other way around whether it would be better to encourage people to continue smoking tobacco, to reduce tobacco tax or to keep it as it is, just because it has this kind of steering effect. I think it is important that taxation should also be guided in a certain way in the right way, and that is why the alcohol tax is being increased to have a certain steering effect. That is why we are talking about harmful taxes, and I think this budget has an important message. But as I just said in that debat, when we look at this increase in income differentials in the longer term, there has been little change in this government. The Yle news, which very misleadingly stated in the title that income differentials have been torn down, contained a table showing that during this government the situation has been very stable in terms of income differentials when compared to the previous government, not to mention the late 1990s, when income differentials actually exploded in Finland. During the previous government they sawed a little, sometimes fell, sometimes rose. This development has now been very steady, and this should be the case, because all Finns must be involved in this economic growth and benefit from it. The living standards of those who are not, for one reason or another, in working life who have retired, for example, in full service, must also be visible there if Finland’s economy is growing, and it is therefore excellent that the government has taken small but steps in the right direction when it raises, for example, the lowest maternity, paternity and parental allowances or when, for the third time, a small increase is being made in the guarantee pension. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u589	Mr President! Finland’s strength is that we are one of the most equal countries in the world. However, the negative effects of inequality have also begun to be reflected in the growth of income, education and health inequalities. The budget for next year is currently under discussion in Parliament and, unfortunately, there is no change of direction in economic policy. Adaptation is targeted at low-income people and those who are already disadvantaged, as well as at education and training. Finland has moved permanently to a time of higher income inequality and greater inequality. [Current Group: That is not true!] The Sipilä government has tried its best to combat poverty, but the statistics tell us otherwise. As a result of the policy of the current government, the rich become richer and the low incomes become poorer. For example, an IMF study shows that high income disparities mean a lower standard of living for the poorest, even in Finland, which violates human rights. However, while the government has cut off pensioners, families with children, students, the unemployed and education, it has been able to afford to allocate funds to its own interest groups. It therefore seems that the cuts have not been made because the economy is in order, but because large tax cuts have been financed by cuts, such as reductions in the taxation of earned income of the highest income recipients, tax relief for millions of dollars, car tax reductions and new tax reductions, such as a reduction in the forest tax and a reduction in the pharmacy tax. Taxation is an important tool for ensuring equality. This government has not tackled this; on the contrary, tax policy has increased income differentials. Low income taxes should not be allowed to tighten up next year, but increases in payments must be compensated for by tax reductions. Inequality is not inevitable and the consequence of economic growth, but can be influenced by policy. A VM calculation was also published yesterday, which showed that the household's disposable income in the lowest income category will decrease by around EUR 40, but in the upper income category the income will increase by up to EUR 400. In the last parliamentary term, even though spending was adjusted more than this government has adjusted, it was nevertheless possible to reduce the income gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u590	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u591	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u592	All right, here's another need for a few answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u593	Mr President! It may be exaggerated to say that Prime Minister Sipilä is using the government as a cane horse to produce or import to Northern Ostrobothnia. Infra-projects in the Oulu region in their own constituency. The list of Government fairway projects is completely absurd for this parliamentary term, not to mention the size of the correction debt, which is almost the top project package, almost EUR 500 million — that is to say, an increase in investment in the fairway. Railway projects include Luumäki—Imatrameno,Pori—Mäntyluoto-rail electrification,Turku—New Town-rail electrification,roadway4,yes,Oulu—Kemi-way,which also benefits Lappish transporters andall Finnsgoers,hallmark5,Mikki—Juva,Valtatie12,Lahdeneteinen ring road,valtatie12,Tillola—Keltti,Länsimetronjakeiden kehittäminen,Kähähäykkönen
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u594	Mr President! I am very pleased with the many projects in South Savo that we can move forward there, although Sipilä is not from South Savo or the constituency of South-East Finland: for example, the Luomäki-Imatra double track, the renovation of highway five Juva-Mikku, the bridge to Sulkava and so on. I just think it's about how much this government will accomplish this season, when there will be so many good projects in the Oulu region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u595	Mr President! I myself am also pleased with the government's bus projects. I'm particularly warmed up by the northern projects. Kilpisjärvi Steps are an important project if you ever get there, and I hope you have plenty of time, and I am happy to spend time in Lapland. Highway four is important. It is also safe for me when I visit Lapland several times, and I like it. In other words, I think that the current government's fairway projects have spread over a very wide area of Finland. Of course, South-East Finland has also received its share, as Mr Kosonen and Mr Vehkaperä have said. We are very pleased about that. There are also hugely good fairway projects here in the Helsinki region, in the Tampere region. This government does good in the whole of Finland's fairway policy, and it is particularly important to take into account the correction debt, and that is what this government has been exemplaryly successful in.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u596	Mr President, Mr President! Everyone here praises the good projects in their own constituency, but we must agree with Mr Honkonen that something is missing here, something very important. It is precisely the extension of highway four serving the Äänekoski bioproduct plant. This is now, in all sense, the first road project in industrial policy, industrial policy and even transport policy, that is, the fourth road there a little further south — where the wood is supposed to go. This runs completely counter to government bio-product projects, difficult to understand. I understand that there is a deep consensus on this, both for the government and for the opposition, that this issue should be put right, and we are absolutely in favour of the fact that this project is perhaps marginalized in its own way from a local point of view. But it is far more important at national and even international level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u597	Mr President! I very much welcome the fact that Mrs Harakka is also concerned about these transport connections in our Central Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u598	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u599	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u600	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u601	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u602	Mr President! Representative Ojala-Niemelä of the Social Democrats praised the situation over the last period for reducing income inequality, but then, in the hundreds of thousands of people, the situation worsened catastrophically when they were unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u603	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u604	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u605	Mr President! Just as Mr Vehkaperä listed a long list of projects which have already been launched or which will be launched in the near future, that list is impressive, and what is it about, Mr Ojala-Niemelä? Its guarantee is impressive, because during the previous government term a huge debt of care was not made and is now being corrected. It is clear that not everything can be fixed at once, it is not possible, but yet, for example, an additional EUR 600 million for basic maintenance during this parliamentary term, with all and a little more, will result in the deterioration of the road system being stopped. On this same path, we need to continue the next two parliamentary term in order to put things in order for the foundations to be maintained, because increasing traffic in wood or, for example, in the bioeconomy causes us to shoulder our responsibilities in this regard and to give economic growth to the whole of Finland. It's the growth that takes all of us into account. Mr Ojala-Niemelä, a representative of my highest esteem to Mr Ojala-Niemelä, for information: one day when this Arctic connection comes, the construction of a track in the Arctic Ocean, when this North-East Passage opens, you will know
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u606	Mr President! When we look at these income differentials that have been brought up here all day long in the longer term, we will see where the real increase in income differentials has been, in what decade it has been in this country. This has actually been the case when the Lipponen Government has actually been in force. And when you look at this, there hasn't been any big swings in the last few years. It is true that income differentials have increased somewhat but not significantly in a slightly longer perspective. In this speech by Mr Ojala-Niemela, it did wink, and it sounded bad that there was a lot of bad talk about entrepreneurs, because if not now, I will never admit that this is a very entrepreneurial government. We have achieved a great many things. Companies are better off, taking bold solutions, employing, investing and thus making this Finland rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u607	Finally, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u608	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Hoskonen warmly for his support for this line in the Arctic. I'm happy to accept it as a Lapp. In its alternative budget last year, the SDP already provided this planning money, so we hope that this will move forward. It contains both a regional and a national view and a national one, from where it will go. Mr Heinonen has already left, but I would say to him that it is true that, compared to this government, during the last term of the government, the Gini coefficient was used to calculate whether decisions are taken to increase income disparities or to reduce them. Many projects started during the last parliamentary term, including Äänekoski, which are now in full work. With regard to these transport projects, I regret to say that there are not many areas where there are too many of them. For example, between highway 4, Kemi and Oulu: In the past, these projects have started at both ends at the same time and have largely been linked to the middle. Now all that money was put on the head of Oulu and us in Lapland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u609	Then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u610	Mr President! Economic growth does not come about entirely by itself. You have to work on it all the time. It's just dinner for him. In the run-up to the election, the city centre promised that Finland would be put in good shape. We have now used three means to put this employment and the economy in the right direction: at the beginning of the electoral period, a reduction of EUR 4 billion was made, which, of course, meant that painful cuts had to be made. Then, in its own way, the Competitiveness Pact brought the economy, more speed to employment. Thirdly, major reforms and reforms. There are so many of them: social and health reform, regional reform, vocational education reform and so on. Finland was without reforms for a long time, and now the wheels of reforms are rolling on. Thus, spending control has produced precisely the situation that next year, 2018, we will take out a loan of about EUR 3 billion and the debt is decreasing all the time, but we will continue to take on debt. Growth in the economy, employment is improving and the end of debt is getting closer. That's a good thing. Exports are driven and investments are being made in companies and in the public sector at an accelerating pace. It is particularly good to note from this development that we currently have 50,000 more jobs than last year, and that is a good direction. Mr President! With more room for manoeuvre in the economy, we insist that social justice is shared, so that growth belongs to everyone. The central line has been that we hold to the weaker in society. The reduction of the lower limit of the social solidarity tax for the better-off will continue in line with the central objectives and income tax reductions of 270 million will be made to ensure purchasing power and employment. In the past, the government has also reduced the tax burden on people with low and middle incomes and pensioners. These are things in the right direction. We want to hold on to the weaker ones. I am particularly pleased that in this future budget we will be able to invest in children and families. The reform of family leave will be carried out, hard-working, on a broad basis. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million over the next year. For example, 6,700 families will be included in free early childhood education. We will experiment on free early childhood education for 5 year olds, develop maternity kits and increase maternity allowance by EUR 30. And, best of all, we will be able to increase the minimum daily allowance by EUR 23 per month, which concerns maternity, paternity and parental allowances. This listing does not end with the addition of a child supplement to a single parent, the increase in the guardian allowance of EUR 75 per month, and in particular this guarantee pension will be necessary for pensioners. Mr President! The Government's actions in the field of transport are extensive. We will see a record year in terms of the maintenance and improvement of routes. EUR 453 million will be used for additional funding, which will be used specifically to catch up with the repair debt on roads, railways and ports. Improving the operating conditions of regions, people and businesses is the best economic policy and regional policy that this House can do. We know that all these road, rail and port projects attract interest and some criticism and certainly all the needs across the provinces, but they are now being carried out at record speed so that many projects can be carried out forward. But above all, we will be able to heal
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u611	Mr President! Finland is now in better shape than it was two years ago. Reforms must be continued and every Finn must be involved in the rise of Finland. The economic situation of the elderly and the sick cannot be improved by their employment, but there are many people who are able to work part-time, and too many of them are permanently out of work, even though many of them are able to work part-time or part-time for them. In the future, the unemployed person can become an entrepreneur or study with unemployment benefit. Youth unemployment is addressed through a package of measures. The starting points for vocational education and training will be increased. Families will be supported by reducing the fees for day care, by implementing family leave reform, by reforming the maternity kit and by raising the child allowance to single parents and study allowance. The lowest maternity, paternity and parental allowances will be increased and the guarantee pension for the lowest-income pensioners will be increased, as will the lowest sickness allowances. Mr President! Fortunately, this time the budget will not increase fuel taxes. It is important for the national economy as a whole to keep the costs of driving under control, because in our circumstances, cars are often the only mode of transport. Of course, the car tax also moderates in line with the previous plan for cars with less than 141 grams of CO2 per kilometre. The scrapping premiums encourage consumers to buy new, low-emission cars. The renewal of the car fleet is important both in terms of reducing emissions and in terms of road safety. The deterioration in the condition of the road network can also be halted by traditional budgetary measures, as the government has shown through its actions. They must not remain one-off, but must now aim at a permanent change of direction. For example, 90% of our freight traffic is on rubber wheels. EUR 1.4 billion will be allocated to the maintenance and maintenance of the transport network. Of this amount, EUR 453 million is allocated to the reduction of the correction debt for strategic key projects. The MinTC will prepare a major development project for which decisions will be taken in the spending limits debate next year. It is intended that these projects will also be launched during the current parliamentary term. The vignette recorded in the Government Programme should be put into effect. There is also a pressing need for a heavy-duty toll decision and a low-cost commercial diesel solution. France, for example, returns more than 11 euro cents per litre of diesel to transport companies. Estonia will introduce a time-based vignette from the beginning of next year. Finland should follow this example. Vinjetti is the best heavy-duty road toll system in Finland and administratively easy to implement. The revenue collected can be directed to the road system, which also enables foreign transport companies to participate in the maintenance of the road network. The EU's kilometre-based model would be a very expensive and competitive option for Finland. This would unnecessarily increase the logistical costs of Finland, undermining our competitiveness. Transport volumes in Finland are increasing. For example, van traffic is also growing as the online trade is progressing, and transport companies need labour. Driver training must also ensure the adequacy of the Finnish workforce, and places for starting driver training must be secured. The digitalisation of logistics does not remove the occupation of heavy-duty drivers or lorries, although now there seems to be a trend in Europe that we will increasingly have so-called cheap drivers in Eastern Europe. But we also want to defend domestic hauliers and drivers. Various projects will be launched in 2018. There is Ring One, Laajalahti, the West Metro connection — when will that financing of the West Metro end? — but I particularly want to mention Hailuoto here when I come from that region of Oulu myself. The experts have calculated that the bridge will pay itself back in about seven to eight years. So it's a sensible project. Indeed, when I come from Pirkanmaa, I can say that it is a pity that Finland’s main western route Three is still not involved in these funding. This is a great pity. However, we would also have traffic across the Kvarken to the big ships in Norway, and accordingly there will certainly also be transport to Russia when those sanctions are exhausted. Transport aid is paid to around 250 companies and is small compared to Sweden. We must support domestic transportation. We have long distances, and in order for us to survive this competition, Finnish companies need to be given the best possible conditions. Nor is the EU an obstacle to transport aid. But all in all, good solutions from the government. You can live with these, and you'll get better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u612	Mr President! According to the latest published forecast by the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economy will grow by 2.9 per cent in the current year and an increase of around 2 per cent in the coming year is expected. This means an improvement in income and a job in an increasing number of Finnish families. It also means better prospects for more and more entrepreneurs. However, these current and projected growth rates are not at all as high as they were in 2007, for example. At the time, economic growth was 5.2%, but I do not think that using that overheated year as a benchmark is meaningful, because, as I said, the economy was strongly overheated and growth figures have also been seen since then, although not as hard as in 2007. Finland's economy grew for several years weaker than the control countries. The average economic growth in the euro area started to rise as early as 2013, but Finland did not really get up until last year and this year. It should be remembered that most foreign exports of Finland's export-driven economy are directed specifically to the euro area. This shows that: The economic policy and measures taken by the Sipilä government have been successful in this period of consolidation of global economic growth and further strengthening of the euro area economy. These measures have enabled us to be absorbed. The same line will continue in the state budget for next year. In terms of expenditure developments, the pace of government indebtedness is falling considerably. According to the draft budget, the government will absorb almost half the debt this year, and if economic growth continues to be as positive and steps in the right direction, a policy in the right direction, lending from future generations will be halted. Mr President! Growth belongs to everyone. Last month there were 50,000 fewer unemployed in Finland than one year earlier. Employment is getting better and better. According to the forecast, 70.5 per cent of people of working age will be employed in 2019. The employment rate will therefore be 70.5 per cent. This will have significant effects on Finnish households, including income distribution, as more and more people get to work. Improving employment should therefore continue to be a top priority. Work is really the best social security. Next year's budget proposal includes many good measures that will be welcomed joyfully in Finnish families and Finnish households. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million so that 6,700 families can benefit from free early childhood education. In addition to this effect on fairness, I believe that this will also have an incentive effect on women's employment in lower income categories. I also believe, of course, that there is a need for family leave reform, but this is certainly the right way to go. The single parent increase in child benefit will also rise. The increase in the guarantee pension will be necessary for many low-income pensioners who have not accumulated an earnings-related pension for one reason or another. The increase in guardians' allowance helps student families. Families will also be supported by increasing the minimum maternity, paternity and parental allowances by 23 euros per month. Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have discussed the income-sharing effects of the budget under discussion. I believe that an essential point, one of the very central points, has been overlooked. These presented income-sharing impact assessments focus on the effects of budget and central government revenue-sharing, e.g. the effects of these specific index freezes, in the short term. This is, of course, a serious matter if the disposable income of households is reduced in certain respects, as has now been said, and I admit that it is difficult for those families with hard living. But we should also remember that, and assess that if we continued at the same rate of debt as it has been in this past years, what would be the income distribution effect in 10 or 20 years’ time on the livelihood of their families with children and pensioners of that time? If the growth of indebtedness is not curbed, Finland's public finances will be in 10 and 20 years' time full of cuts in social security, child supplements, housing allowance and other forms of social security and services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u613	Mr President! We have had a lively debate today on the draft budget for 2018, and it has been called under many different headings. Here it has been called a budget for employment and security. I personally feel that both these issues have been well raised in this proposal. The direction of the economy has indeed changed in Finland, and thanks also partly to the Government of Juha Sipilä and Finnish labour market organisations. The Finnish Institute for Economic Research corrected its growth forecast upwards, and now Etla predicts that Finland's economy will grow by 2.9 per cent this year. A couple of years ago, no one would have thought this to be such a good thing. The growth forecast has improved dramatically. Even at the beginning of the year, growth was said to be 1.7 per cent for this year. In a few years, very big steps have been taken forward, the economy is growing and unemployment is falling. Just over two years ago, Finland skied on completely different tracks. Only unemployment, debt-taking and, fortunately, Finnish forests grew. The volume of exports has increased, people are now being employed and investments are being made. A good example of this is the good development of Western Finland. Hopefully the same development will be achieved in areas such as eastern Finland and south-eastern Finland. There are now nearly 50,000 fewer unemployed than one year ago. There is faith in tomorrow for both ordinary consumers and businesses. In the autumn budget debate, the government decided to reduce the income tax of EUR 270 million for all income categories. The tax reduction reduces the incentive trap and makes it even more profitable to accept the work. A much maligned competitiveness pact has a major role to play in increasing growth. The economic upturn has not taken place without every single Finn in us. Both government reform policy and labour market agreements have their place, but above all there has been a need for flexibility and acceptance of ordinary Finns. The place to look at the mirror is under the leadership of the business community — their participation in these economic activities has still remained in words, there is no action. The impact of the Competitiveness Pact is also reflected in the local government finances, for example, the economic situation in Kouvola for 2017 looks better than the budget. The operating margin is nearly 10 per cent higher than previously estimated. So the right direction is being taken in my home town, Kouvola, as far as the economy is concerned. "Growth belongs to everyone" is a good theme of the Government Programme After difficult decisions, every effort must be made to concentrate financial resources on addressing the situation of disadvantaged people. It was a pleasure to hear Mr Niilo Keränen's speech here when he spoke about his own experiences in working life. That was an expert and heavy word. There is also a suspicion here, among other things, whether there is sufficient investment in transport routes and everywhere in Finland. Examples were used in that recent debate, but it did not come to the conclusion that the investment of 5 million in the Central Finland region is also planned for the development of transport infrastructure investments, because we all know that the Äänekoski cellulose plant is a nationally important investment. Good thing it's gone. Another major topic of discussion today has been this increase in income differentials and how it is reflected in this situation. Realism is to say that it was really difficult, figuratively, to show whether growth has started because the growth in income differentials is so low that the graphics that Yle got to see from the table do not detect it. It currently stands at 0.3%, compared to 8% at the end of the 1990s, when Paavo Lipponen was on the board — here is the difference between the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u614	Mr President! The economy is finally doing better than it has been for years. Last night, when the Ministry of Finance updated the forecast for economic growth, we heard that for the current year it was close to 3%, 2.9, and for the coming years over 2. Such figures have not been in Finland for a long time. In fact, Finland was, for a long time, one of the weakest economies in the euro countries in terms of economic growth, and now we have, at one time, gone to the top of the list. Very few countries in Europe are currently experiencing growth in such numbers as we do. Economic figures have not only improved exports but also improved employment. Even in the summer at the end of July, when we had almost 50,000 fewer unemployed job seekers than at the same time one year earlier, the government can also be credited with the fact that employment policy has improved. 50,000 families no longer need to apply for unemployment benefits. In recent days, much has been discussed and talked about how income disparities are developing at a time when economic growth is strongly evoking. It must be borne in mind that the calculations that have now been made public do not, of course, yet include the increased impact of employment. We don't see that until we're too late. However, it is quite clear that if there were 100,000 more unemployed in the last parliamentary term and at this point in the parliamentary term we can say that we have 50 000 fewer unemployed job seekers, then the fact that unemployment is improving and we have more employed people has a very significant income distribution policy effect. However, employment is the best social protection. This, of course, also involves the major reforms of the government as to how to combine a piecemeal, seasonal work. We have many sectors — tourism, seasonal work — where work takes place part of the year, but not the whole year, yet social security should be encouraging to accept that work and should get all this seasonal work done. However, there is still a lot of work to be done to improve employment. We have not achieved the objective set by the central government. We note that when the Ministry of Employment and the Economy just published its own professional barometer, for example, there are sectors and areas where there is a shortage of labour. Many professional groups are already starting to have a situation where there is not enough workers in different parts of Finland, and the government must be able to address this problem. It is also quite significant that debt is reduced and can be broken in the time that is planned. After all, more than EUR 2.5 billion less debt will be taken than in the previous year, a major achievement. In a 100-year-old country, we certainly do not want to leave a large debt cheque as an inheritance for future generations, but rather to give a better starting point for building this country. Mr President! Of course, much remains to be done. I would like to raise a few, perhaps smaller, but very important questions locally. The budget proposes to continue transport aid to Northern Finland. It is very important for many SMEs in Northern and Eastern Finland. We must compete on our international, Nordic domestic market with the same rules as the Swedes who compete with the Norwegians. That is quite clear. Moreover, the second question relates to the taxation of wind power. I welcome the fact that the government has now put forward a proposal to tax wind turbines as wind farms. It has been unreasonable for municipalities that have wanted to invest in renewable energy to have a very small fraction of the tax revenue of wind power. Wind power has been taxed in the same way as normal real estate and not at all in the way that power plants in general should be taxed. There is, of course, a different interpretation of this, but in my opinion this encourages municipalities to build up wind power, and it is good for renewable energy. Mr President! Finland has not yet finished, and there must be growth to make the fruits of growth and to make investments. Nearly 7,000 family day care fees are decreasing, to the smallest
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u615	Mr President, you have made the right decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u616	Mr President! We have lost a decade, but now the economy is growing at a rate of 3%. After two years, Finland will be in better shape. Change is amazing. Somehow this is just going to happen at the time of this government. Finland's income equalisation is also the world's leading leader. There has been a lot of discussion about income differences here in the debat, and there has been a lot of talk on the news over several days, but even in Finland, according to OECD calculations, income equalisation is the world's top priority, and it is due to the small size of income differentials and the low level of poverty. This is a really great thing. We are also doing well in relation to the Nordic countries. However, in terms of employment rates, we are still clearly losing. It is therefore appropriate to highlight the good action of the government on this issue. One of the very important measures in my view is the reform of family leave, which will finally be launched. Maybe it should have been done a while ago, but now it's in good shape. This will increase part-time work and consideration of different life situations. Furthermore, it is important that early childhood education fees are reduced and we are also going to have an experiment to completely abolish early childhood education fees. As Prime Minister Sipilä said, income differentials increased 40 times as the Greens, the SDP and the Left were in the government. Even then, we recovered from the recession, and now, compared to what is currently growing in income differentials, its 0.3%, can be said to be growing, but it is not such a significant increase. Mr President! I would like to make a few additional remarks about the debate. In his group speech, Mr Kaikkonen proposed a more balanced agreement on the construction of Finland, and in a slightly different way to what was then raised here, yes, that agreement would indeed involve the cities. He said that we really need to find solutions to the problems of the major cities. Housing shortages, unemployment and the queue of services are all our problems, and the centre's human urbanisation should be the goal of every party. Mr President! There has also been talk here of reducing aid to businesses and of abandoning these environmentally harmful subsidies and then cancelling the training cuts. I personally, indeed, have experienced great pain in the face of cuts in education, but now we really do get to consider a long-term plan to abolish business subsidies when the TEM sets up a working party, and then the opposition will be able to make a real contribution. This will then include direct payments and also tax subsidies. It is worth remembering, however, that we are not completely isolated from the world here in Finland, but competing countries are also paying these subsidies. And yet the intention is to get Finland on the same track with others, and there is no justification for leaving Finland in a weaker position. Mr President! Among other things, I am very pleased with the Metso programme increases in the budget. 5 million additional funds were received last spring, and another 5 million will now be available. It is very important to continue the good work of the Metso programme. Forest diversity is one of the living conditions of Finland and the world. This is an integral part of the discussion process opened by Ministers Leppä and Tiilikainen, which are also seeking completely new solutions to preserve that diversity. They may be very small acts, but that is something that all of us forest owners are going to take care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u617	Mr President! A few weeks ago, I got a call from a man on disability pension who was angry. He was angry at the government's policy, which takes away low incomes and gives high incomes. He told me that he was in situations where he was forced to choose between food and medicine. Although his situation was difficult, he was even more concerned about others, people living in a similar or more difficult situation, the sick, the unemployed, the elderly and the young, whose future does not seem bright with the improvement of the general economic situation. Mr President! Similar contacts are becoming more and more frequent, including people in work who are not paid enough to live. The plight of people with low incomes is now compounded, for example, by the freezing of social benefits and the cuts in housing allowance which are a continuum for the policy that the government has carried out ideologically throughout the reign. The cuts in medical and travel allowances, the significant reduction in student student funding, the cuts in basic security benefits such as child benefit, disability allowance and unemployment benefit, the weakening of services and the savings in early childhood education and training are parts of it, which is driving more and more people into distress. The idea that even in difficult times we are trying to keep everyone, including the weak, sick and low income, involved in society and compensate for differences in income and well-being has become a policy in Finland. This is an unfair humane policy and also a bad policy from an economic point of view. Mr President! The Ministry of Finance estimates that the government's budget will cut the lowest incomes by tens of euros at the same time as it gives the richest hundreds of euros a year. On the other side of the government’s decisions are the many tax concessions on high incomes that deepen the gap between rich and poor. The government often justifies these tax reliefs with the aim of strengthening employment, but even the reasons for the proposals do not always support this view. For example, a reduction in inheritance tax and gift tax, a reduction in forest tax and a reduction in entrepreneurial activity are useless measures in terms of strengthening employment, and their ultimate purpose seems to be an ideological transfer to the wealthy of our society. According to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service between 2015 and 2018, the disposable income of all households above average income will increase, while the disposable income of households below average income will decrease. It is the income of the most low incomes that is falling most. Mr President! As I said in my previous speech, in the big picture, the overall economic turn for the better is not thanks to the government or to the achievement, as was not the case with previous governments that the general economic situation deteriorated. As a small country which is part of the euro area and is heavily dependent on exports, we are linked to the economic development of Europe and the world. It is therefore misleading to justify cuts in low incomes at a turnaround in the economy or in employment, as the government continues to do. Employment will not improve as a result of the right-wing government in our country cutting off poor, sick, unemployed, families with children, students or pensioners. Cutting and tax relief on low incomes are ideological choices. The growth of income differentials is an ideological choice for the government. Mr President! In his presentation of next year's budget, Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, said today that he is not really interested in the employment rate in Finland. Hard talk from a minister who is responsible for public finances. The SDP, on the other hand, wants to make a policy aimed not only at raising the employment rate in Finland, but also at making it possible for as many people as possible to benefit from the economic turn for the better. From an employment point of view, we would not make useless tax incentives for the rich, as the government does. We would not cut off the most vulnerable, but would take account of the income-sharing effects of our decisions, as we have always done when we acted in government responsibility. We would balance public finances in such a way as to involve the well-off in the joint efforts. Politics is choices. The SDP chooses to stand alongside a man on disability pension who has to choose between medicines and food. We will choose to stand alongside the people from whom this government has cut and also cut in next year's budget. And we say together, "This is wrong. We're angry."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u618	Mr President! Mrs Marin, you really did mention that one sentence of my speech, which was supposed to wake me up, and it seems to have worked, namely that I do not care so much about the employment rate. But I went on to say that for me the people who are far more important are there, not the numbers — the people who are unemployed and who make the government and myself work every day, so that as many as possible of those who are unemployed can get to work, because being able to work there from unemployment is the best way to prevent inequality. But if you really understood what you said, then I want to correct this: I really do not say that the employment rate does not really matter, but that content, that is the employed people, the unemployed people, is significant. The employment rate itself is the basis of the whole welfare system. The higher the employment rate, the stronger our welfare society will be, the stronger the services will be, the more we will have
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u619	Mr President! I was really surprised to hear the Minister of Finance's presentation today. The quote therefore reads: 'All of us here have heard countless times how our main problem is too low an employment rate. But what if I said I didn't really care so much about the employment rate?" So this was a direct quote from the finance minister, Orpo, and it surprised me. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Social Democrats, low employment rates are one of our key challenges for the sustainability of Finland's economy, and that is why we are trying to make such a policy, offering the government options that focus on strengthening the employment rate and getting people to work. It is a sustainable economic policy. And while we are trying to have an economic policy that strengthens employment, it is just as important to have an economic policy that equalises differences in income and well-being, but also in that government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u620	Mr President! I will continue where your quote ended: "It is one key number among others, though very important. Even more than the problem of the Finnish economy, too low employment rates are people's problems. Getting a person to work is more important than what a key number shows." So with this somewhat provocative text, I wanted to point out that there are people, stories, tragedies and fates behind the figures, people we can help. Your motto today, too, seems to be: let's keep everyone on board. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u621	Mr President! The economy is growing, unemployment is falling, businesses are investing, taking risks, people are getting to work. We are in a better position than we have been in the last few years: entrepreneurs, hence employment, hence tax revenue, thus economic growth. This is what is being done, what is being done with determination, and what is now going on. This year, economic growth is close to 3%, in fact 2.9%. The forecasts for next year also show that the economy will continue to grow. In the big picture, we have succeeded in what we promised when this parliamentary term began. The country will also be less in debt, unfortunately still another 2.9 billion next year, but the direction is also correct when, a few years ago, we still owed more than 7 billion. Here, too, the computational art point is coming up that we're making more money than we eat again. Unfortunately, the situation is still the other way around. But, in any case, there are many things that are going for the better, and we must stick to that good development. Mr. Speaker! There are good things in this budget. First of all, I want to raise the issue of safety. It is absolutely central to the fact that people in Finland can live safely and feel safe. As a result, there are going to be increases in the budget for the police, the supo, the Border Guard and the Defence Forces. In terms of internal security, it is important that the police are present, that there are enough police officers in the field and that they are everywhere in Finland. The fight against terrorism: terrorism has unfortunately come to us in Finland too, which increases the insecurity of our daily lives, and that is why we are investing in this budget to add to the resources of the subsidy, to enable us to take preventive action, to monitor people in the risk group, and we are able to tackle all of these in good time. With regard to external security, we are now investing in readiness. A great deal is happening outside our borders today in the world, the crises are getting worse, and that is why Finland must also take care of its most important, that is, our own defence, and that is indeed what this government is doing. Preparedness will be invested, the same procurements that have been planned will be carried out, and therefore our Defence Forces will be considered to be capable of impact and defence. In particular, I would like to raise one specific point, and I would like to thank the government — here Mr Orpo is here — for finally taking care of the appropriations in this budget for voluntary national defence, and then not having to do so here in Parliament with the Christmas budget appropriations, the small ones, to twist them, but, for once, the defence organisations will be able to plan their future in good time without even having the first doubt that the funds will not be enough. Mr President! The bioeconomy is one of the key factors in our growth. In our forests, we have a source of growth and all the conditions for economic growth around Finland, the jobs that it enables. Representative Wallinheimo knows, among other things, how important the Äänekoski project is to Finland as a whole and to us in southern Ostrobothnia. Bioproduct factories, sawmills and so on are now being planned and also rising to different parts of Finland. It is very important that the LULUCF, the carbon sink of forests, has won one stage victory in the European Parliament. I would also like us in Parliament to send out a very strong and united message that the use of forests is important to us. We want to use them sustainably, we want to use them, because in Finland, if you know how to use forests sustainably. Forests grow more wood than we use them. We manage forests, we plant forests, and as a result they must be used and exploited. That is why a unified message here is important. Mr. Speaker! Finally, a little worry. I'm worried about agriculture. It is not enough to have exceptionally bad weather this year. A loss of up to EUR 150 to 200 million has been forecast for grain farms for this year, if the wooding days are not soon to improve. There's a worry about agriculture. Price formation, trade, industry and producer — these must be put right in future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u622	Mr President! The budget for next year has increased funding for the police, and that is a very necessary increase. The police are focusing their resources, especially on the operation of emergency teams. At the same time, there will be a significant reduction in police traffic control and criminal investigations. I am also very concerned about such plans, and they must not be implemented. This was reflected in the extensive calculations prepared by the Ministry of the Interior on the operational performance targets of the police for next year. However, the police departments have not yet dealt with them regionally, so this is something we can still influence in this Chamber. However, plans for performance targets have been made for the state budget next year. The Ministry of the Interior has been preparing to direct police activities so that the police are obliged to provide emergency alarm services, which must be the number one priority for the police. This additional funding for the police will be allocated, in particular, to the updating of the instruments of force and protection for police patrols, which is also understandable. Police patrols around Finland receive new weapons but also personal and patrol-specific protective equipment such as shields, helmets and vests. They're renovating them and getting more. In addition, the police on the alert will receive more tactical training. I know, and I understand, as a long-standing force trainer for the police, that the use of force and protective equipment must be in order and that the action should also be practiced more than what the law requires of the police at the moment. At present, there is not enough working time in every police district. Let us hope that this will change in the future. By contrast, over 50 person-years will be used less for traffic control next year than this year or last year. In Finnish, it means a reduction of almost 10 per cent. Traffic control will be replaced by increased automatic traffic control, which will not, however, interfere with drunken driving or, for example, carry out heavy traffic control. According to the outcome targets, criminal investigations, in particular police detection and serial investigation, will be significantly reduced. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the number of aggravated drug offences reported by the police will decrease next year by about seven cases, that is, by less than 10 percent of this year. I think this is the wrong direction. For example, serious drug offences are drug trafficking in a practical life. They are only revealed by the police's own investigation, not much of the other reports. If the effort is reduced from revealing criminal investigations, drug trafficking cases are allowed to decrease by up to a hundred compared to the year before last, even though drug-related crime has increased considerably in recent years. The proceeds of crime taken over by the police are also allowed to be reduced by up to EUR 5 million from around EUR 23 million this year, according to the targets. We certainly do not want this development. It is clear that if fewer people are employed in criminal investigations, the percentage of offences reported to the police will also fall and the investigation periods will increase. Whose interest would that be? At least not an honest citizen. The changes are due to the fact that the resources of criminal investigations in Finland have been continuously reduced and centralised last year. In the budget, the new additional funds allocated to the police for next year have already been allocated. In criminal investigations, they are mainly intended for the Central Criminal Police and the Protection Police. Central Crime Police will receive funds to recruit cybercrime investigators. The Ministry of the Interior also wants to allocate resources to preventative action against violent radicalisation and hate speech. This requires, according to the Ministry, a reduction in the resources of the day-to-day criminal investigation. For example, the level of liquidation of property offences has been reduced to as much as 33%. I think this too is the wrong direction. At the same time, the police persist in emptying the countryside from small police stations. For example, Ilomantsi and Outokumpu both would definitely need their own police and police. Something is going very wrong with police funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u623	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Kulmala rightly drew attention to the security situation in rural communities. The problem with the police situation in my municipality, Ilomantsi, and also in Outokumpu, is that there are administrative decisions to take police posts to Joensuu or Kite, which inevitably leads to the police station being shut down, even though when Minister Orpo was in charge of the previous minister's appointment, he made a commendable decision that these posts would remain. However, I hope that this matter will now be taken seriously, that these police stations will genuinely remain there and will not be taken away by administrative decisions in this way, because, even in this budget, which we are beginning to deal with in this house, internal security, the police, the police and the Border Guard, there has been a clear increase in appropriations. It is precisely the aim of getting the security situation under control in rural municipalities. It must also be borne in mind that when we are investing large sums in the bioeconomy and, for example, the newly launched Äänekoski plant, which is creating new jobs and many other investments create a lot of work in rural municipalities, we also need in these areas the sense of security that the police bring to rural communities and all over Finland. On this point, we in this Parliament agree entirely that Finland should take care of the security situation in every locality and that visible police activity in every locality has a vital condition that is not compromised. But then there is the economic situation of the budget itself, which, with the budget, has been dealt with hard in this House today. Of course, the opposition has tried their best. I don't blame them. Of course, it is up to the opposition to prove the government's proposals even wrong. But I wonder a little about the argument that the opposition has attacked the government's proposal. There has been nothing but a huge complaint and the sounding of individual details, as we heard as soon as the Finance Minister, Mr Orpo, presented this budget. I would have liked, the opposition, to have genuinely looked at where the economy is actually going in this country. It is clearly growing, and as Erkki Liikanen, the President of the Bank of Finland, said in his own presentation just over a week ago, growth is strong in all the main industries of our industry and is on a sustainable basis. But if we take the opposition's path, according to their presentations, this potential for growth will be destroyed at the same time. There is no room for division, as the Minister of Finance rightly said. There is not very much of it, and there is really nothing at all, but we must make sure that these fruits of growth are distributed to all the citizens, and I would like that further benefit to the many unemployed people all over Finland, so that they can have their own life in order and have a real good job. This 100-year-old Finland cannot give a better gift than a job for people who are unemployed. It should be remembered that today's pension provision in Finland depends on whether a person has a job. The entire life-long work-related pension collection begins as soon as the first employment relationship begins and after retirement, the amount of the euro that has come into the pension accumulation is calculated and the pension is determined there. Of course, we raised the guarantee pension by EUR 15, but because a pension of just over EUR 700 in Finland today is not going to make it — perhaps in rural conditions you can live in your own cottage when you have a self-employed person, but you can't imagine, for example, in this city, Helsinki, because you can't even pay rent or housing costs in general. In other words, I hope that the opposition will take a slightly more constructive stance on this issue and make genuine proposals to further improve the Finnish economy. If you simply criticise and do not put forward any viable alternatives, then I consider such a debate to be an infertile continuation which, unfortunately, as soon as this debate began, the opposition quite largely resorted to it. The economy is growing, we know that. Employment is improving, as many as 20,000 long-term unemployed have been employed. I read in a magazine on the structure of long-term unemployment: Surprise, male and female persons over 50 years of age, both sexes, had been able to work after a long period of unemployment when new jobs were created. So the long-term unemployed also have the opportunity to get a job today, and that possibility this Parliament must make sure that the same trend continues. We cannot afford to start arguing about what we are doing here. The only direction is to get people to work, to get the Finnish economy to work, and gradually to pay off the debt of our national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u624	Let's start constructively. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of Savola, Pakkanen, Kopra and Kulmala, who have allowed me to speak again, as well as Minister Orpo, who has returned. Mr President, Mr President! Our family often performs a work of art at night called "Päiläde and Leprechaun". And why this tragic love story, where one is the child of light and the other is the love of the night, came to mind about this budget — I'll tell you it soon. Our most important common task is to ensure sustainable and sustainable growth. How growth carries, how the lance lifts all ships, that is the fate of the nation’s future. Can we return to the path of inequality on the road to cohesion? Unfortunately, with regard to this big issue, the government budget is inconclusive, I am tempted to say tinkering. It's a lost opportunity. It seems that the government has lost its ability to act at a critical moment, just when growth would have to be pushed to a proper pace. Is it, then, that this government can only cut, tempt and discipline, but does not grow, encourage and create hope for the future? Has Sipilä and Orpo been taken hostage by a pessimism that is not fair, has the courage run out just when it is needed? So is the government more comfortable in the dark, like Goblin, and unable to enter the light without being blinded? The truth is exactly the opposite of what Prime Minister Sipilä said earlier today. He assured me that the government has not dropped its leg and rested on the laurels. In fact, the Sipilä government is killing time — time we do not have. Sipilä raised as evidence of the government’s strength a project to set up a cutting edge in economics. Well, hallelujah. It is great if the Nobel Prize winner Bengt Holmström finds a place in Finland, but it does not save Finland's economy from the challenges of difficult demographic development and the global economy. In my opinion, I myself will be more careful in justifying why it is the government itself that has lost its opportunity to pass on major reforms to the following governments: (1) the reform of family leave; 2) extension of compulsory education, 3) promotion of migration of experts, 4) reform of business subsidies, 5) reform of taxation. What opportunities have been lost? This government will not be able to raise the employment rate to 72%, which is unfortunate because in the next decade even that 72 will not be enough: at least three out of four people of working age, more than one, will have to be put to the screen or more. The population is getting older, which means that the immigration of the experts needs to be increased. But one government party prevents two government parties from making progress. The increase in the employment rate will require a reform of the family leave system which will improve the labour market position of women — which we have been calling for for for 2.5 years — but yet another government party will prevent two government parties from making progress, or is it now that two are blocking one? Secondly, the continuation of compulsory education or the right to study both from the start and from the end will also improve employment and prevent exclusion. After all, the employment rate for those who have completed primary education alone is only 43%. Studies show that working life is polarized, divided in two. Medium-paid, mediocre, middle-class jobs have already decreased. Similarly, studies show that only three ways to prevent polarisation. They are education, education and training. I repeat the motion that the next government commits itself to a learning billion, i.e., unlike its current and predecessors, to investing substantially in all the lessons from early childhood education to primary school, secondary school, higher education, research, product development. Fourth point: the new Minister Lintilä promised a list of reductions in business subsidies as early as last spring. It was postponed to the autumn budget debate and nothing came out. Apparently, two government parties blocked the progress of one party. This is a tricycle that falls on every curve. Business subsidies must be renewed because Finland's production needs to be renewed. Renewable production requires renewable energy. Society can help the circular economy, digitalisation and employment-rich areas of high added value. These views are completely missing from the yellow book. And again, Mr President, the fifth example. The spring spending limits debate also promised tax decisions. Well, who was surprised that this matter was also put in the working group and made a road map? Well, if we're lost, we need a map. But this was the fourth big question, the fourth big question of the future, for which there was not enough courage. Working groups, working groups — work is needed, not working groups. So let everyone now decide whether Prime Minister Sipilä is right, who said that the government is vigorously carrying out major, growth-friendly reforms, or whether I am right to say that there are no future solutions in this yellow book. Let everyone decide whether it's the Sunbeam or the Goblin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u625	And the response from the scene, 1 minute, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u626	Mr President! That's an interesting speech. I have a few comments to make. I am very pleased that, with this economic growth, we are actually on a growing career in employment. Now, according to this forecast, 70.5 will be achieved. By 2019 the target will be 72, and I have said many times here myself that it will not be enough, more needs to be done about the challenges of the next decade. This is an opportunity if we do the right thing and keep up growth, to bring the labour force and jobs together. With increased demand around the world, it has been possible to increase productivity by increasing capacity. Even that additional pay for labour has been less, but now that investment has started, if growth continues, demand will continue, we can see — on this basis we cannot count or count — even faster demand, and then we must be ready. This is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u627	I will give Mr Wallinheimo and Mr Haraka the answers and then no further contributions to this stage of the debate. — Mr Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u628	Thank you, Mr President. I think Mr Haraka's list was good, that's all. We need a lot of reforms. What I thought was missing was a local arrangement. When you look at various studies, such as the World Economic Forum, which looked at 140 countries and the flexibility of their labour markets, Finland unfortunately came to 140. That is why, in addition to this list of representatives from Haraka, where there were many good things in itself, we need flexibility and reforms in the labour market. When the minister is in the box, I would like to ask about the local agreement: is it being promoted during this reign?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u629	One more response, Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u630	Mr President, Mr President! Yes, the purpose was to end this up in such a constructive finale. Unfortunately, Mrs Wallinheim has to be further specified in the WEF list that this was not a study but a questionnaire asking everyone whether your labour market system was centralised or decentralised, and when Finland replied at the time of the TES that it was centralised, it was said that it was 140. So it is just an answer that answers what is asked, nothing to prove anything. Rather, the question of productivity raised by the Minister is perhaps the key issue to which we hope to seek some enlightenment in this Chamber too, because the fact is that productivity growth has deteriorated in virtually all sectors of Finland, Europe and the world, even as a minus mark in several dozen industries. This is a mystery that makes it difficult to design economic policy and certainly to achieve our common goal of achieving sustainable and supportive growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-20-ps-90.u631	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
