ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 5/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u2	Sir... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u3	Madam President! This government proposal was before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and we in the report state the very background to the motion: "The Social and Health Administration could grant a limited right to practise the profession of doctor in Finland as a legalised professional to a person who has completed a doctor's basic degree in an EU or EEA State where the right to engage in a doctor's profession is subject to a post-graduate vocational training. In addition, the right of access to the profession referred to above requires that the person enjoying a limited right acts in writing under the direction and supervision of a designated legal doctor." This change of law will improve the situation in Åland, for example, where there have been problems with obtaining doctors. The question of language skills is, of course, also important — and it is important — that we also have Swedish-speaking doctors available in Finland. In this report, the committee also stresses the employer's obligation to ensure in the future that the doctor performing the training is competent and that he has sufficient knowledge of the national languages. This is, of course, also important in the case of staff employed in the care sector, that there is a need for language skills. In the referral debate here in the Chamber, the question arose that more and more Finnish students are going abroad to study a doctor’s degree. Of course, it is a shame that we do not have enough study places here in Finland for students who are coming and seeking to study in the field. Perhaps this is a question of eternity, and in what way we could ensure that, here too, students could study this very important and important field — there is a constant shortage of doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u4	Värderade fru talman! Jag vill taga social- och älsovårdsutskottet för att man har gjort en snabb behandling av ärendet och jag kan förena mig med utskottets betankande. Jag tycker också att det är viktigt, precis som utskottet betonar i betankandet, att myndigheterna i Finland och Sverige skulle arbeta tillsammans för att se hur man ytterligare kan utveckla saken, och utreda möjligheten att godkänna practicek också i andra delar av Finland där det råder brist på svenspråkiga läkare. Men i sinerhet är den ändringen viktig för Åland, och den kommer i grevens tid. Nu gällande lagstiftning öjliggör nämligen inte för personer som påbörjat sina läkarstudier effecter den 1 januari 2012 att göra yrkespraktik i Finland, Vilket har medfört stora problem för Åland att säkersta ett tillräckligt antal läkare redan från i sommar, som bara är några veckorbort. Den au lagändringen åtgärdar den saken. Jag vill därför än en gång taga social- och älsovårdsutskottet för en snabb behandling och minister Juha Rehula och social- och helsovårdsministeriet för att man snabbt tagit de uppkomna problemen — för i synnerhet Åland — på allvar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u5	Madam President! The committee was in agreement with this proposal and we believe it is important that we now ensure that students of medicine abroad can complete this training. After all, our students have increasingly moved abroad to study medicine: they already have one faculty, we talk about the sixth faculty. But what the committee also draws attention to in its report is that, according to the report we have received, the Swedish authorities accept traineeships in Finland only to a limited extent as post-graduate traineeships. That is why we believe it is important for the authorities, together with the Swedish authorities, now to explore the possibilities of increasing the number of acceptable traineeships in Finland, which is what remains for further studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u6	Madam President! This is a very sensible government proposal, and a good report has also been produced by the committee. After all, the situation is that people and the workforce are moving, the world has become unlimited. In many areas of Finland, we currently have a shortage of skilled doctors, not just in these specific areas, which are now mentioned in the report. Of course, it is very important for us to be able to ensure that all doctors have sufficient language skills or are close to other health professionals who can help at work because it is a major patient safety issue. Mr President! I hope that, also through this bill and through this legislation, we will be able to alleviate the shortage of doctors that we have, especially in the provinces and rural areas. In my own province, too, there is a constant shortage of doctors in various parts of the province in southern Ostrobothnia. In this question of summer doctors, which Mr Löfström described very well here, there is also a situation in my own municipality, Kauhava, where it is difficult to get doctors who know how to replace them next summer. Hopefully this will help to resolve this shortage of doctors, which is a threat to the credibility of our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u7	Mr President! This situation was accutated because Swedish-speaking doctors who were studying in Sweden, Poland, Denmark have typically worked in the Swedish-speaking region of Åland, especially those who are studying in Scandinavian countries, and suddenly Valvira found that, after completing a medical licentiate degree, in countries of dual legalization, these doctors could no longer work as summer places or other substitutes in Åland or elsewhere in Finland. For this reason, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health quickly prepared legislation which allows this work to be done, and that is precisely what this applies to. For a period of three years Valvira may grant an internship to a doctor who has completed his studies elsewhere, with dual legalisation, under the guidance of a qualified professional, and may also temporarily work as a substitute. This will make it easier for health professionals to receive healthcare professionals in Finland temporarily, but it is also important to pay attention to the number of places for doctors to start in Finland in order to deal with the shortage of doctors in Finland in relative terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u8	Madam President! When there is talk of a shortage of doctors, I would like to point out that in recent years these starting points for medical training have been strongly raised, which in practice has also led to very large educational groups and to a decline in the level of education, i.e. these educational resources should have increased at the same rate as these levels of education have been increased. The shortage of doctors has been reduced in many places, and we have places in the capital region, for example, which already has doctors, trained doctors, rather than oversupply, which is already beyond demand, and it is clear that expensive medical training should not be used to provide us with medical unemployment. It is a good thing that this problem has now been addressed by this bill by doctors trained abroad, Finnish doctors, but I note that the university representative expressed concern about the tightening up and difficulties in access to further training and employment for doctors who have been studying in Finland in this competitive situation, and on the other hand attention was paid to the adequacy of these pilot resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u9	Madam President! Medical training is an important part of a functional whole of health care, and we must ensure that we have skilled professionals in action. One major area of medical training is related to specialist medical training. Various studies show that we have a shortage of specialists just around the corner in many areas because people in health care are getting older and so are doctors who retire, and the need for specialist doctors in particular may be surprising. For this reason, there is a need for better coordination of specialist training in the kingdom and for ensuring that we have the needs of professionals everywhere and throughout the country. This is why it is important that we have medical faculties in a country-wide way, and this will also ensure the need for doctors everywhere in Finland, because we have seen that when doctors are trained in, for example, the north, Oulu, then doctors can be better equipped to work in that area, even in smaller localities. The second point I would like to raise here concerns the reform of social welfare and health care, the reform of social security. Now the problem that is emerging here with regard to the training and traineeships of health professionals is specifically related to the possibilities for nurses to train. Social welfare legislation is ensuring that doctors and dentists must be trained in these future private health centres, i.e. these companies must organise doctors' training under the supervision of another professional. However, the legislation there does not impose any obligation on these future private companies, social centres, to offer traineeships to polytechnic nurses or local staff with vocational training. This is a very large and dangerous deficiency now, because it is absolutely absurd that, if a legislative reform of social welfare and health care is introduced first, in which private companies take these essential basic services to produce, then these companies do not at the outset agree that the obligation to train must also be guaranteed to nurses with a polytechnic degree. Then, if there is to be an ex-post consultation on the way and at what price and under what conditions this training will then take place in these private companies, you can be sure that the discussion and negotiation situation is not quite fair, at least from the financial point of view, which is to say that it will provide an opportunity to play at that price. Therefore, this deficiency should be particularly taken care of now, that is, we future nurses and local nurses and social workers must be able to practice at basic and specific levels and in various services and learn those practices and activities there at grassroots level, in everyday work. That is why this situation is very serious if we go further, so that there will no longer be training available at the basic level in these companies. This is something that the Nurses' Association has rightly drawn attention to, and I hope that this issue will also be kept in the minds of the government parties now that we will not use such a privatisation system to dismantle this training as well. As far as I am concerned, I am not at all in favour of this form of incorporation, of going into this, because this is another example of how enormously different things are involved in this welfare society that have been handled by the public in such a way that there has been no need for consultation on what this is costing. A certain resource has been allocated to the public to ensure that doctors and dentists are trained there and that nurses, local nurses and physiotherapists practice there at work. The public system has then also ensured that this guidance and training at work is well organised, that there are responsible persons for all these activities, that their job description shows who is responsible for the way in which the training is conducted. Now that we go into this kind of a completely new private system for basic services, this threatens everyone in this respect to be scrapped and lost. It may be that, if this is not taken care of, we are gradually taking this system to such a hospital-centred thinking: if professionals study and practice only in hospitals, then we also need the practical understanding of what is work for health and well-being, basic health care, social work and all that is involved in what it really means. That is why I would like to raise this point in this context, although this is not directly covered by this legislation, but it is a question of training health professionals, and I hope that this speech will also be registered here and will be noted that this matter should be taken care of. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u10	Mr President! I share my concerns with President Tuula Haatainen about the impact of the social welfare reform on education and training opportunities. In the past 20 years, there has been a clear bias in the recruitment of doctors: the number of recruitments in occupational health care, private medical services has increased by around 40-50%, in special care by 20%, and in primary health care there has been no new medical recruitment in the last 20 years. This has led to the inclusion of various mild phenomena, backpack companies, etc. in primary medical services. In the autumn, the Finnish Parliament approved the transfer of specialist medical training from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and, in other words, to the responsibility of universities. This is where the reform of social services is bringing about a new situation, because small specialist units are now being created and, on the other hand, trainers require a certain quality requirement from training units. There is a contradiction here, and I see that the quality of our education will be at risk, along with the fact that there will also be a reduction in the desire for education, particularly for demanding vocational training, for 50 special sectors of education and for us the shortage of specialist doctors will increase. A good working environment includes training, research and then clinical work. These are its supporting legs, it applies to all professionals, including other health care groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u11	Madam President! The Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mrs Haatainen, and Mrs Talja, have now raised very important questions and points of view on the future needs of medical training, and I fully agree that one of our fundamental concerns in the future will be to secure a sufficient number of specialists and also to ensure their adequate quality of training. All in all, I think it is urgent to shift the focus of medical training to this specialist training and to ensure that Finland's reputation as an excellent holder of a high level of medicine does not suffer now that the reform of social services is being carried out. I would like to remind you that the frequency of doctors in Finland, for example in the Nordic comparison, is good in itself, but we really have regional problems with the availability of doctors and, in the future, a growing shortage of specialist doctors. This will certainly require significant measures in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u12	Madam President! It is a pleasure to hear the speeches made by those who are familiar with the matter. However, as a layman, I would like to stress my position on this point if Mr Räsänen is concerned that there is already an oversupply of doctors, but at the moment we are aware of the importance of social welfare reform in every party, so that we have a shortage of doctors in basic health care and we have a culture in which these job doctors have, in a way, taken over the first step of basic health care that should be in better shape on the public side. In that sense, I am not worried that we will be over-qualified if we still have a shortage of doctors in office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u13	Mr President! I would also like to make it clear that I was talking specifically about the oversupply in place. We certainly do not have a national oversupply of doctors, even though our medical density is quite good compared to the population in the Nordic countries, which means that Finland is not in a situation where the number of doctors is lower overall than in the other Nordic countries. But, for example, it is difficult for doctors who graduate in the capital region to find training and jobs at the moment, so the problem is precisely that we do not have a sufficient range of doctors at regional level, as it were. Of course, the key to the solution is also expected from the future social solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u14	Mr President! In my opinion, colleagues have opened an excellent debate here on the fact that one of the numerous aims of the current social welfare reform is that we should be able to alleviate this really serious regional shortage of doctors and we should be able to eradicate these mild phenomena. Now it has to be the case that when freedom of choice comes and a person gets to make those choices with that bill, then there must be the phenomenon that the medical community then settles down to basic health care. After all, there is certainly one factor behind this, which is why young doctors have not been given jobs, especially in smaller places, because many young doctors want to be part of the team as part of a specialized team, and in modern health centers they cannot do so. I personally hope that these future public and private companies' social centres will be able to create those teams.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-19-ps-57.u15	Mr President! Representative Haatainen's concern about the placements of nurses is real. Studying a nursing profession requires extensive training and study places, and if the guidance of students remains only on the public side, it will be difficult to study in a wide-ranging profession. It is also a question of the placement of those who are graduating. After all, we have a shortage of nurses now and in the future, and this location, where we practice, also guides where nurses want to go to work in the future. However, Mr President, there are also major shortcomings at the moment in the organisation of further training and specialist training for nurses. Medical specialisation training is funded from the state budget and is also controlled by the government, but the specialist training of nurses is fully open, it is not planned in any way. It is not financed in any way by the State at the moment, nor is there any guidance from the government. There is a huge shortage of such specialist professionals, specialist medical professionals, in that field, including memory nurses who are not being trained at the moment, and this training is entirely dependent on the interest of universities of applied sciences. If a professional higher education wants to take on this kind of educational task for itself, it is there, but nothing like this comprehensive coordination or funding is not in the whole kingdom. This is a very big concern, though.
