ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In a letter addressed to Parliament on 21 June 2017, Hanna Mäntylä has requested exemption from the post of representative from 1 July 2017 in order to take up the role of special adviser in the Secretariat of the Council of Europe. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2017 vp on the basis of the opinion on the report. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 June 2017. In the debate Pia Viitanen, supported by Riitta Myller, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 1. With the support of the Jyrki Plant, Ozan Yanar has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 2. Kari Uotila, supported by Li Andersson, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 3. With the support of Mrs Mats Löfström, Mrs Biaudet has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 4. With the support of Peter Östman Päivi Räsänen, Parliament has also proposed to approve the statement of objections 5. In addition, with the support of Jari Ronkainen Ville Vähämäki, Parliament has proposed that Parliament approve of the proposal, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u3	First, we will vote against the proposal tabled by Mr Uotila against Pia Viitanen, then against the proposal by Mrs Biaudet, then against the proposal by Mr Yanar, then against the proposal by Mr Östman, and against the proposal by Mr Östman. The winner of this vote will be voted against Mr Ronkainen's proposal and the winner will be Mr Uotila's one-off proposal. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u4	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 June 2017. In the debate, Anna Kontula Kari Uotila has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 5/2017 vp. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will take place at a rapid pace, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u6	Mr President! This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on an amending budget. There are two objections to this report. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we had a longer debate in the Chamber on the state of public finances. The economy has turned to clear growth. Growth is expected to be even stronger than forecast by the Ministry of Finance, and also on an EU scale, our country's economic growth will be exceptionally good in the early part of the year, even stronger than in Sweden and Germany, for example, and it has also been more widespread than in the past. However, despite the start of growth, economic growth is expected to be relatively moderate in the coming years and we have a significant need to prepare for slow growth, as many experts have said. The chairman of the committee went through this report by the Committee on Finance in a variety of ways. The turn-around in the economy is also reflected in this amending budget: an increase in revenue of 482 million, with higher tax revenue on the basis of higher tax revenues, and then, due to more favourable economic development than expected, VAT revenue, among other things, can be increased by 186 million euros. Some additional appropriations will be directed — some of them I will raise in this speech — but still, although the draft amending budget will reduce the need for net government borrowing by EUR 178 million, it will be estimated that this year's net state borrowing will be around EUR 5.4 billion. At the end of the year, therefore, our tax burden would be 108 billion, which is about 49% of GDP. The issues of structural change and skills shortages in south-west Finland are positive in this amending budget, which means that there is already a need for more skilled labour. I am sure this is a good place to thank the former Minister, Mr Vapaavuori, who, thanks to his courage, among other things, in the shipbuilding sector today, has a very different wind than it was a moment ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u12	Yeah, 5:30 was. — Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u13	Mr President! This additional budget proposal includes a number of positive elements, such as electrification of the New Town Track and the Oulu Seaway and also investing in the area of positive structural changes. When Mr Heinonen referred to the situation in Turku Shipyard, the honour is due to former Minister Vapaavuori for his work in front of the shipbuilding industry, but there were many others involved during these years in order to have such a bright view of the West Coast and the Turku region. But this extra budget includes a couple of pretty weird things. Let me briefly say that, in the context of war, putting 30 million into the pilots of the freedom of choice experiment is certainly very questionable. The committee has had to think about this and in some way has been able to twist it so that it is not totally negative from the point of view of the Constitution and contrary to it, but everyone knows that these 30 million are meant to be tested for freedom of choice, which is now fully in the search for the package as a whole. And, as the Minister said yesterday here, at least forced-to-carrying is likely to be unconstitutional. This was the other weird thing. The second was what Mr Heinonen referred to, this Kymi Ring project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u16	Mr President! I am amazed at what Mr. Uotila has said. After all, he is well-known as a sportsman, and now we are putting different top sports against each other, and the sport — motor sports — where we are the best in the world. We are the fastest nation in the world, and this big definition has been made in the lead of the Olympic Committee, that this is one of our top projects, the top of the top sports project. Not a representative Uotila was surprised at any of it, as only the same amount of money was added to the Olympic Stadium. Mr Uotila thought it was great that 50 million more would go to the stadium. Soon 300 million has gone to the Stadium. I agree that it should have been remodeled, but when Mr Arhinmäki, Minister Arhinmäki, put a stop to it that this is all we should have given to it, and Helsinki would have played its part in building everything there. I think it's great that Finland gets Kimi Ring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u17	Mr President! The Olympic Stadium project was actually launched when I was a minister. The project was reduced and a clear ceiling was set on it, but since it is one of the most important, if not the most important, building in the country's history, the most famous building, the pearl of functionalism, the most beautiful building in the world, I think it only makes sense — and for this I would like to thank the Council of Economic Policy — that, when we have seen the need for sufficient funding even if we cut it down, it is guaranteed. It's a pearl that needs to be taken care of. I would also like to correct Mr Heino in that, admittedly, the most famous Finnish athlete is Jari Litmanen, the King,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u18	Mr President! Somehow it would seem that these different forms of sport deserve support, and all these characters — from Paavo Nurme — are drawn in capital letters in the hearts of the Finnish people, so I wouldn't wish that Parliament would make this sort of confrontation just to push forward the necessary, good projects. The renovation of the Olympic Stadium is an absolutely necessary part of the preservation of our cultural history heritage, and I believe that with this The project will also have its own positive significance both for motor sports and then for the wider development of the whole region. However, I would like to draw attention to this big picture in this additional budget: now that the world economy is giving us support, there is reason to be concern about whether our own domestic policies are sufficiently conducive to growth and employment, and this additional budget does not give us sufficient answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u19	At this stage of the debate — not the best athlete in all of Finland, but the subject raised by Mr Uotila — I will give the floor to the representatives of Östman, Ala-Nissilä, Kankaanniemi and then Mr Uotila and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u20	Mr President! Yeah, I don't want to keep arguing about who's the most famous athlete, but there's one of the most famous people in front of me, and he hasn't demanded a lot of investment money for his own species, but he's been spending on the roads in the Gulf of Lapland. Of course, EUR 14 million for the transport arrangements of this motor sports centre sounds a little absurd in such an economic situation, when it is said that we need to increase Finland's competitiveness, we need to promote exports and we need to have more jobs. I do not see that as a sensible solution. In that sense, I am fully supportive of Mr Uotila's speech as well. On this freedom of choice: Even in such a situation, 30 million will be invested when we do not know how it is going to proceed, and I would ask the Minister: would it not be more sensible to use EUR 15 million now to move the regional elections to a more reasonable time until the project has been completed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u21	Mr President! I do have an opinion on this Kymi Ring, but I am not going to take that opinion right now. Instead, it is important for these projects, as the committee has required, that, before we start, they should also be seen as being in favour of more than two bankruptcys. It must also be borne in mind that we have these sports routes throughout Finland — Alastaro Circuit in my neighborhood — and yet they should be treated in some way in the same way as they are carried forward in these projects. It did receive about half a million, which is the only part that has come to it in a long time, and that is a good thing. But it is important that these principles and the role of the Sports Council remain strong in the construction of sports facilities. That is what I would like to stress here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u22	And again, Mr Kankaanniemi, the answer to the question of physical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u23	Mr. Speaker! I think there is a procedural problem with this Kymi Ring. This went past all the normal handling of this type of issue. That is why it is worth calling for us to make informed, planned and fair decisions on the distribution of millions. And at this point in committee, I think it was clear that this was not the case. The project may be good in itself, but for example, this 14 million road funding for this project seems disproportionate. In that sense, Mr Uotila's proposal to improve the risk points on the whole road would be a well-founded procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u24	Mr Uotila, then Minister, who started this debate and then after the Minister's speech, will be extended to cover all possible economies, because there seems to be a need for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u25	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki referred to the final history of the Olympic Stadium. It is quite true that if the Committee on Economic Policy thinks that the building, which is the most valuable place in the world, must be saved by a thorough reform, it is a wise decision from the Committee on Economic Policy at the time, and also the decisions that have been taken since then, to which Mr Orpo has justifiably contributed. But I will ask about this decision when the Minister has the following address: what kind of discussion has taken place within the government on this project? I repeat what I said in that toilet: both for the officials of the Ministry of Education and Culture and for the officials of the Ministry of Transport, this seemed to have come as a complete surprise, quite a straitjacket. We had to make up the paragraphs, we had to come up with some kind of justification, and it seemed to be quite a twist when they, as experts, had to present this issue. So this is about the proper use of money, but also about the procedures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u26	Mr President! First, this issue of the Kymi Ring. In my opinion, this Kymi Ring project has previously been identified as a nationally significant exercise project, allowing for consideration on a case-by-case basis. It was there that a very large project was going on here and it necessarily required additional funding. But its condition — this is important, this is important — is that, before this next grant is paid, there must be agreements on the existence of outside funding, which is many times that amount. That was our starting point. In other words, we see that the entire funding will then exist and that this state contribution will be paid. Well, then, when they do, and they have a very high chance, the probability of having a MotoGP, among other things, which can reach up to hundreds of thousands of people, then, unfortunately, their traffic arrangements must be in order to be safe. Here's how it went. Then here, President-in-Office, a few words in general. First of all, there was a major turning point now in this amending budget: the government's debt can be reduced by 178 million. It's a change of direction. It's important. And if we are able to support economic growth and employment development, then hopefully we will see these positive news in the context of the forthcoming budget and the amending budget, the budgetary plan, that the need for debt can indeed be weighed down from what was previously estimated. What this amending budget also supports economic growth is, among other things, the Oulu fairway project. These investments in positive structural change there, of course these investments in education are the biggest, and the railway project in Uusikaupunki is very important. And as far as Vuosaari was concerned, there was a readiness to make decisions about it, but the negotiations between Helsinki and the Government on the subject, in order to get it moving, were still ongoing. But this Vuosaari is a strong government agent because we need to recognize these export bottlenecks and then these fairway projects are one of these things right at the heart of it. Mr President! In my opinion, this amending budget did not allocate a great deal of money at the moment, but it supports the same economic and employment policy line that the government has in place, corrected technical matters. Last but not least, the EUR 30 million allocated to the freedom of choice pilots will be used as far as these laws and regulations are progressing. And when it is discussed whether such a provision can be made, of course, the government can reserve funds for various needs. Then if these things come true,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let us have that little debate after the Minister has spoken. So those representatives who want to use the reply will stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u28	Mr President! There are indeed two very exceptional items of expenditure in this amending budget which finance two major items for which there is not even legislation yet: this so-called freedom of choice pilot and the so-called 'active model' of employment services. When you look at what has happened or what has happened to the government’s legislative projects, it is very strange or even questionable that financial commitments create models that may never get legal power. It may be possible to think that this government’s naive optimism is moving. Let us hope that both the privatisation of health services and the privatisation of employment services will pass the constitutional test. And now we're hoping to pilot something that will ever happen. We now have a fixed purpose in this world for these 37 million. Instead of funding the government's own dreams and naps, it is genuinely funding real needs, i.e. enhanced ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u29	Mr President! I'm going back to the Kymi Ring thing. This line is located along a very poor transversal link from Lappeenranta to Lahti, Tampere, Vaasa and Pori. In fact, most of that funding is intended to be used to improve this basic transport link. Kymi Ring lives her own life, and in this performance, it's a secondary matter. It is precisely transport connections at the end of Kouvola, on the Lahti-Kouvola road that are in the most vulnerable condition, so it is justified that funding be provided to improve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u30	Mr President! I am talking about the big picture of the economy, because the positive turn of the Finnish economy is also reflected in this additional budget, for example, in the increase in VAT revenues. I cannot get away from the fact that Mr Rinne's speech of May Day is causing me more and more confusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u31	Mr President! In fact, I will continue with what Mr Zyskowicz decided, that is, the general picture of the economy, and as a reference to the request for the resignation of the Prime Minister, I can also say that I personally have at least acted in such a way as to keep the Prime Minister present and the government together. [Department : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u32	Following Mr Zyskowicz's statement, the reply was made by Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u33	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz has now sat in the ranks of the government party for so long that he no longer understands that someone agrees to demand the resignation of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u34	Mr President! The debate on investment targets and, above all, on transport investments is in order. If you look at the priority of transport investment, the most important investment in the northern vision would have been to deepen the Kemi port corridor. It would have paid the same amount as it has now been granted or granted to Kymi Ring, approximately EUR 20 million, and Kemi is nevertheless located in the middle of an industrial concentration, the Bay of Bothnia. Exports in the region account for 7% of all exports in Finland, and it is a maritime and rail hub, an absolute lifeline for the northern export industry, and now no money was found for it. If you consider how to promote the Finnish export industry, then if you put this investment in Kymi Ring and Kemi's port against each other, Kemi's investment in the port would have been a strategic investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u35	Mr President! So much for this Kymi Ring, it hasn't come out of nowhere. In time, Minister Haglund has presented a funding plan for such sports facilities for 2015-2018, and there, among other things, in addition to Lahti Sports Area and Mäkelänrinne Hall, Kymi Ring has already been mentioned as future projects, but of course it can be discussed whether this 14 million transport investment in this context is relevant and the most important investment. But perhaps in such a general sense it must be said that, at a time when the economy is growing, we still have this problem of matching, and I would like to point out that the Christian Democrats have tabled a couple of supplementary budget initiatives aimed specifically at solving this problem of employment, namely 25 million for public employment and business services, specifically for wage subsidies and start-up money to help start their own business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u36	Mr President! As has been heard here today, debt borrowing will decrease with positive economic development, and that is, of course, a positive thing. This good trend has been partly influenced, among other things, by the massive income tax reductions granted over the last two years to people on low and middle incomes, and it will continue to be most reasonable to allocate them specifically to these income categories in order to further develop employment and purchasing power. Then to this Kymi Ring, I would like to mention that it would have been much more sensible to spend this 14 million on the renovation of highway 12 on a much longer journey. It has also been mentioned that the Olympic Stadium has taken hundreds of millions of euros. Well, this has happened, it's history. It is no reason now that almost EUR 20 million is now being spent on supporting a new motorsport track. It's always gone. Finally, I was really in Tampere on May Day. Market
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u37	At this point, I shall give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u38	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, the most important thing about this amending budget is that, when there is a certain amount of resources available, this resource will be used precisely to speed up the actions that can then bring that work and livelihood to the whole kingdom. This shows that the government has made a policy in time and creates these conditions. We cannot create jobs, but we can create conditions, and these conditions have been created here. Now to this possible piloting money: Now we must remember that in the provinces, however, all this preparation for social and health integration has been taken seriously. There are thousands of people there who plan on their own time, and I think that this amending budget is the answer, that society is also serious about this and that this issue is being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u39	Mr President! Mr Heinonen raised the very important point that the price of gold in particular determines the continuity and operation of the mine, and in that sense the Mining Act is inadequate that we do not have sufficient reserves to ensure that mine dismantling takes place without state aid. It would be easy to change the legislation so that at least insurance is required so that the mine-opener is able to meet his obligations. But for the representatives of Mustajärvi and Uotila, for the party comrades, 14 million dollars to Vuosaari or Kemi is in vain, because we have a deep port in Satakunta, where we do not have to put any money. This 14 million can be put more rationally into the transport infrastructure. When it is stated that Finland needs: With a hundred per cent of its export industries working strongly, it would be more advantageous for this economy to direct
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u40	Mr President! I would like to talk about this big picture of the situation, and Minister Orpo, I am also very, very concerned about it. We have said here several times yesterday in a big debate that the government will not achieve the employment objective, not the debt target. The last few weeks have gone by by stumbling, forming and maintaining an adopted son’s government. We have learned of the present state of social security. There the government stumbles, comes these constitutional issues and others. In itself, it is good that it emerges because the model proposed by the government only increases the cost of social services, unlike the general objectives. Similarly, inequality is growing. President! I would now like to ask you, Mr Orpo, what kind of working conditions the government currently has in relation to decision-making, the necessary decision-making that is needed at the moment. For example, urgent action is needed to improve employment, and the government seems to be destabilising in a very serious way. President! I wish this could be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u41	5 to 6 replies and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u42	Mr President! It is important that every effort is made to increase physical activity. In Finland, non-mobility is a major problem. I have been following it from the grass roots for many ten years now, and that is a very big problem. It is good that the problem has also arisen and that improvements are being made. As far as the Olympic Stadium is concerned, the renovation is necessary. It's our monument. Paavo Nurmi is probably the most popular and famous Finnish athlete in history. Investing in motor sports: you also have to think about people wanting to do things, and I am not against it. I would like to see more funding secured for physical exercise and its introduction here in the Chamber. The wonder of south-west Finland, the shipyard, the success of the car factory, all of this also supports employment, also supports investment in physical activity and all positive things. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u43	Mr President! These positive economic news has made it possible for this proposal to update the tax revenue forecast and the macroeconomic forecast more positively, but the fact is that there is still a great deal of concern about the future, about balancing the long-term economy, as well as about employment issues. This is important to remember. But then maybe to a smaller detail. This amending budget provides an allocation of EUR 30 million for the cost of pilot projects for freedom of choice. There has been concern about how this appropriation will be allocated to various pilot projects on freedom of choice. Minister Ruhula has, among other things, admitted in an interview with Helsingin Sanomat that: Uusimaa is one of the losers of the social welfare reform and that the population-rich provinces are going to be the hardest hit. This observation has been shared by the Committee on Finance and the report states that the criteria for applying for pilots must be balanced across regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u44	Mr President! It is very important that the Committee on Budgets recognizes in this report that we have areas of positive structural change other than south-west Finland, which is, of course, very strong. I would like to thank you for the fact that the situation in Central Finland has been well raised here. Of course, there is no money to be asked for here, but we are about to highlight the fact that we have exactly the same problem as we have in south-west Finland. We have a lack of skilled labour. In particular, technical experts and university graduates are also needed in Central Finland, not just in South-West Finland, and we would definitely like to move forward with this network-based university cooperation in Central Finland. Of course, efforts must also be made to reduce the skills gap, as is now thought, by increasing labour mobility and developing the skills of unemployed job seekers. All of this is very important and very positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u45	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Krista Kiuru, Sarkkinen, Heinonen and Kulmuni, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u46	Mr President! We have good experience of how regional equality can be promoted in a way that increases employment and economic growth. These examples can already be found at the end of the last term of government, when major infrastructure projects were invested in the capital region, but also in Äänekoski as a single example, which supported the economy of that region in a very significant way. Now it is good that the government recognises the need for positive structural change in south-west Finland and also that it needs to be supported in order to create new growth on a Finnish scale. I am particularly pleased with that. These coastal cities of south-west Finland have called for the start of Master of Science training as a university activity in that area, but also for an increase in education, precisely so that the needs of the region's industry can be better served. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: why did it happen that those resources did not reach the Satakunta side, even though they were originally thought otherwise? And on the other hand, I ask why this good model could not be shared elsewhere and why the Turks
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u47	Mr President! In connection with the amending budget, the Board of Directors proposes a reduction in Neste's holding from 50 to 33 per cent. The sale of liquid well-productive shares does not make sense either from a profit point of view or from a strategic development point of view of ownership. Liquid is a very productive ownership that can also be used to develop the fuel sector in an environmentally friendly and innovative way. The sale of liquid is an indication of what this government's "balance-of-work" speech means in practice: the sale of productive and important holdings in order to finance the Government's favorite projects outside the budget and democratic control. As far as we are concerned, there is no justification for the use of liquid for fattening. Last year, the Left Alliance opposed the creation of a vague and expert criticism company Vake Oy as the sole party, and this criticism remains valid. The guarantee transfers state ownership beyond the control and transparency of the Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u48	Mr President! I give a great deal of credit to those speeches that do not put different sports, not even top sports, against each other. I always defend the sport when it comes to it. All exercise we get for Finns is valuable. Kymi Ring is a great project, and the stadium, which must be repaired, as well as Tampere Arena, and these have the same features that the State Sports Council has been able to influence them all in one way or another, and there have been exactly the same steps in all of them. What is the social significance of such great events — it is enormous. For example, one rally, Neste Rally Finland’s World Rally Championship, leaves around EUR 15 million per year in the Jyväskylä region of Central Finland. So when this line is made to work, as Minister Orpo pointed out, the MotoGPs and others will work there, then, hopefully, this money will come back many times more. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u49	President! However, the economic turn is reflected in the draft amending budget, even in this report by the Committee on Finance, when, for example, the additional debt is reduced from the estimated figure of 180 million. The issue that has hardly been addressed in the committee's report relates to the rising economic growth in Lapland. In the same way, when tourism figures have gone up there, or the conditions for industrial exports are improving, I would also see them as very important at national level. There is, in fact, one theme that has also been mentioned here: the Finnish port infrastructure. It is very important that our ports are well, especially in the north. That competitive situation is quite tight when competing with Swedish ports as well, and if you look at those opportunities in Lapland, it would be sensible to bring those masses from there to Kemi. I therefore hope that the government, as soon as possible — and also with a view to the forthcoming investment of Kaidi in the port of Ajos — will also begin the draught of the port of Kemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u50	And now the Minister has the floor. In this context, I would like to say that, after the Minister's intervention, I have also made comments here to the following representatives: Mr Vähämäki, Mr Andersson, Mr Myller, Mr Hakkarainen, Mr Rossi, Mr Uotila and Mr Hoskonen. Then we would try to move on, unless there is something else burning up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u51	Mr President! It must also be said that it comes to mind that 'acidified', said the opposition on economic growth and improved employment figures. It is now simply a fact that economic growth is now stronger than in other European countries. The same has not been experienced in Finland for years. We can argue about who it is, that's all right. As I explained a long time ago here, I am sure that the right decisions have been taken during the last term of the government. A determined employment policy has been put in place during this government. The euro area, to which we have decided together to join in due course, is currently more attractive, supporting our economic growth. They have been the right decisions to make. The world economy is on the rise. There are a lot of elements here, but I am also strongly in favour of the government's basic line of employment and economic policy, which has been taken forward, and it will continue in this budget too. But 41,000 fewer unemployed than one year ago at this time and 2.5 percentage points of economic growth for this year, one and a half per cent for the year to come and the year to come: it now shows that economic growth is on a stronger footing. The previous forecast showed a still cautious growth for this year, well, a growth of less than 1% for the coming years. Now we are on a stronger footing, and that gives us faith. We are, as it were, in that phase of acceleration, and if we are able to sustain this growth, the government will have the opportunity to achieve its employment objectives and objectives of breaking debt as well. It now requires that this be achieved on a sustainable basis. That is why this amending budget also makes those investments in those critical places. Support for structural change, strong growth in south-west Finland: Jobs will be created, and all we have to do now is invest in education, knowledge, research, investment in order to turn them into really new jobs and even stronger investments. I would also like to say from this economic growth that it is no longer narrowly dependent on construction or domestic demand, it is wide-ranging at the moment. Extensive investment, exports have begun to pull. There's a lot of good here now. This is good, and now we need to continue with a good policy. Mr President! I'm really sorry, but I'm gonna have to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u54	The Minister will have to leave, which is why we will continue with that order, which I have just read.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u55	Honorable Speaker! That's exactly what it is. We have a strong economic growth, there are several feet of support, and this additional budget is a good whole, a balanced whole, excluding, of course, this 14 million road transport project in the middle of nowhere. This project, promoted by Mr Heinonen, is a bad one, and the procedures are also somewhat questionable. I agree with what Mr Uotila has said. Then, in this additional budget, 5 million will be allocated to the closure of the Nivala nickel mine. The guarantee for the mine was only 2 million, and I think that the committee is paying great attention to the fact that these guarantees need to be raised to the right optimal level, so that we do not have to resort to such a procedure that the State will have to dig 20 million out of its own pocket. Then again, from the deep passage of Oulu: This is a good project. Thank you for having this come true. The benefit-cost ratio of the project is 1.1, which means that it will pay for itself. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u56	The Minister indicated that he had a few more minutes, which is why I am now asking those representatives to come forward who wish to address him in particular, and in particular the opposition, in response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u57	Mr President! You, Minister Orpo, are here to justify this pilot money for freedom of choice and you said that it will come from there. Listening to what you and Prime Minister Sipilä have been saying over the last few days, I inevitably get a picture of a Man and Naked Gun movie in which Leslie Nielsen stands in front of an explosive fireworks factory that flies rockets into the air, and says that scatter, there is nothing to see here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u58	Mr President! I'm going back to this extra budget. Of course, I very much welcome the support for positive structural change, which is linked to this. At the same time, however, I am calling for this to remain the only regional policy action in this additional budget. The question is that we have a lot of regions where unemployment is still very high and rising. Yesterday, when this issue was discussed, you said that the good that is in Western Finland will flow to Eastern Finland. This is a different regional policy than we have been used to in the past. There has also been a regional policy that has developed regions which are particularly badly affected. For example, could this pilot grant of 30 million not now be distributed in such a way as to boost regional innovation throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u59	Mr President! I think this is more like the Häkkänen circle, but I'm sure Secretary Orpo will be able to answer that question. We have deregulation as one of the government's programmes, and the situation is that we have a lot of entrepreneurs in debt imprisonment. They have huge capital in knowledge, in skill and also in diligence. I would now like to ask, among other things, about this: If the court determines the debts, it can, in principle, do so at the moment, even from the hat. Will the protection of assets be achieved in payment-obligatory judgments? Do the courts have the conditions to do so, and whether the judgments of the judges were incorrectly handed down by the top political leaders?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u60	Mr President! With regard to this amending budget, I would like to speed up the government's efforts to implement these economic development solutions, whether they are smaller or larger. For example, this EUR 10 million investment in the introduction of an active model of unemployment security is something worth taking forward. All of these will speed up our economic development and give it a basis. In the same way, investments, if we are talking about the forestry industry and the bioeconomy, are those that raise Eastern Finland very significantly and quite widely, the whole of Finland, and this should be continued. Mr. Speaker! On the other hand, I find it very ill-suited that my home town, Kuopio, is under quite a three-way attack: they want Fimea's headquarters back in Helsinki, the same way they want the Crisis Management Centre out of Kuopio within the context of the Rescue College, and the Warehouse Library should also be transferred to the University of Helsinki. You can ask me if this is what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u61	Mr President! Indeed, there is a slight improvement in the statistics of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which the Minister mentioned. But unfortunately, at the same time we know that the reality of Statistics Finland's surveys is still different, i.e. the number of unemployed Statistics Finland's survey is unchanged from one year ago. A major explanation is that there are people who are in disguised unemployment and do not necessarily register with the employment office, and it helps to show this employment situation slightly better than it really is. It is therefore shocking that, under the conditions that this international economy has given us, employment is still in a delicate state as to whether it will improve or not. So it is true that Statistics Finland seems that there are as many unemployed as one year ago, in the situation of last May, a shocking job. At the same time, even more interesting is the fact that debt-taking is not falling anywhere near the way it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u62	Mr President! The draft amending budget reflects the fact that the government worked continuously on the line of work. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I can say to Minister Orpo, who is well aware that the government's economic and employment objectives have not yet been achieved and cannot be achieved if the government does not improve its pace, and it is a good thing that this is to be done. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u67	And even before the Minister makes a brief speech, I have spoken to the representatives of Andersson, Östman, Yanar, Juhantalo, and then we will continue the debate on someone's journey.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u68	Mr President! It is through regional experiments that progress should be made in the process of social reform, as all experts have recommended to the government. That is not what the government is doing, it is going to carry out the reform of social security at once, but instead 30 million in this amending budget are being set aside to try out legislation that does not yet exist and for which Parliament is not yet aware. It will tell us all about the state and stage of the preparation of this government's social welfare reform. I would also like to ask Minister Orpo about the positive structural change and the need for expertise in south-west Finland. As you are well aware, this lack of expertise in engineering is permanent in south-west Finland, and I would like to hear Minister Orpo's view: is this University of Technology, which has now been reached, a satisfactory solution to the permanent need for expertise in south-west Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u70	Mr Sarkomaa, you have the response to the first part of Mr Andersson's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u71	Mr President! Social and health care needs to be developed through pilots. It was started to be developed at the beginning of this reign. The development work will continue even after the legislation on social welfare and health care has been finalised. It is not the case, Mr Andersson, that, after the President's club taps into the table, the social welfare system is ready, but it is constantly developing, and that is why freedom of choice is also part of this whole package, that it keeps the system going even after the legislation is ready. And I wonder what the opposition's position is: do you support these pilots or not? First you demand them, when they come, you resist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u72	To this particular question, Mr Andersson, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u73	Mr President! So, in the opinion of Mr Sarkomaa, is it appropriate to organise pilots in the way that the government is now doing, to allocate 30 million to try out activities for which there is no legislation yet, and that the Committee on Finance has to take a position on whether money can be allocated to pilots whose constitutionality is not even yet known? As far as the opposition's social policy and position are concerned, it has been quite consistent and clear all along. The whole Parliament hopes that the social welfare reform will be carried out in Finland, but one that all parties can commit to and participate in in preparing, and that the original goals set for the social welfare reform will be realised. Only then will we be able to
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u74	Mr President! Yesterday we had a discussion about the big picture of the economy. We then called on the government, in the budgetary plan, to speed up the process of family leave reform and corporate subsidy testing. I hope this is happening in August. As has been mentioned here, there are strange points in the additional budget as well. I myself did not hear from the Minister or any representative of the government party how, for example, this Kymi Ring would be a nationally important project. This figure of 3.5 million plus 14 million sounds like a large sum, and it would be genuinely important to know on what basis this is defined as a project of national importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u75	Mr President! There are many successful companies in the region of Pietarsaari with a good employment situation. Yet the companies in the region are forced to stand by while the government invests elsewhere, including this 14 million plus 3.5 million in this motor sports project. An important investment project in the Pietarsaari region would be the transport arrangements of the Kuussaari industrial area. Almost a thousand workers work in this industrial area. There will be long queues during rush hour when shifts break down on the road, and this junction is famous for several tin-collars and near-miss situations. Companies have been waiting for more than ten years, more than ten years, for the government to invest in a new, safer road connection. The total cost of this project would be only 2.5 million
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u76	Mr President! Mr Rossi mentioned this active model of unemployment protection, which will also enter into force at the end of the year, but its implementation will start in October.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u79	And now, Minister Orphan, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u80	Thank you, Mr President. On this employment situation. It is true, as Mr Heinäluoma said, that there has been an increase in the number of workers, which of course slows the statistics down. But a couple of such signs: There is a significant change in the beginning of new periods of long-term unemployment and then the end of them, which is now ending much more than is born. It is statistically always a sign of a significant turnaround. I believe that much better development figures will be seen here — and I believe that this development will continue now. As far as debt is concerned, I would remind you that the amending budget was made on the basis of an old forecast and tax revenue estimates based on it, and if we were now to look at the VM's latest economics department's forecast, we would probably have the courage to estimate tax revenues at a higher level. But when we always do it on the information of that moment and not on the horsemen’s information agency, that is why this is the case. But it is allowed to wait until the end of the year for tax revenue to look better. Let's hope so. Then there are a few brief points. This degree in engineering: I have said that I will not be happy until I see those diploma engineers graduate there. Now a deadline has been set for this model of university cooperation. We need to get that system working, or we need to get back to this faculty. I think this is absolutely absolute, because I do not care where the diploma engineers come to meet the needs of the shipyard and the car industry, as long as they are there. That's the starting point. Regional policy: In other words, the government has a huge number of regional policy instruments at its disposal all the time, such as hundreds of millions of investments in the bioeconomy or, for example, in the maintenance of basic transport routes, through key projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u83	At this stage of the debate, I will give my answer to the following representatives: Mr Kiuru, Mr Pakkanen, Mr Suutari, Mr Kankaanniemi, Mr Talvitie, Mr Hoskonen, Mr Harakka. I believe that everyone who has asked for a response at this stage of the debate has, at least once, received a response, some of the representatives in relation to the situation in which they have asked for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u84	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to two points: First of all, the Minister's words remained to be reflected on the fact that this regional policy could flow from one region to another. That's an interesting idea. In particular, in this positive structural change in south-west Finland, it has already been noted in the work of the committee that even within south-west Finland this Regional policy in south-west Finland did not flow across the Satakunta border. In that respect, I am not quite able to believe in this run-down of regional policy from one region to another, when it did not even flow inside south-west Finland so that it was correctly targeted. On the other hand, I drew attention to this aspect presented by Sari Sarkomaa, in which you absolutely encouraged the government to try things out before this social welfare legislation is ready and before freedom of choice has been adopted in Parliament. There is a problem with the fact that we are now going to try something that might not go through at all in Parliament, and then the question is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u85	Mr President! There has been a hard debate here about whether Kymi Ring is a well-founded project and whether it is important to the state and society. I would like to emphasise that Kymi Ringhan is not just a motorway project but a driving training centre, where the Defence Forces train heavy-duty drivers, and a road safety test environment for the automotive industry. All these things come around the Kymi Ring project. Then there has also been criticism of this money of 14 million in the year 12. It does not go to the motorway project, it goes to Highway 12 for traffic arrangements, where a different level interface is built in connection with the Iitt-Kouvola interconnector, a medium-rail bypass, which comes to that, a new parallel road, which improves the safety of light traffic. These are all important transport projects, and Highway 12 is one of the trunk routes throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u86	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for its consistent economic policy. When a better result can be expected, it will then be invested in sound investment and growth-promoting skills and, if possible, leveraged. This is forecast to increase by about half a billion, and the longer-term outlook is also more encouraging than in the past. That is why it is good to invest in the future. In particular, I would like to thank the Government for the allocation for deepening the port of Oulu. That means a great deal for the employment and enterprise of our northern regions all the way to Kainuu, namely we have a lot to load on the ship.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u87	Mr. Speaker! Central Finland is now mentioned in this report, thank you for that. So we have received attention in committee to the needs of the technology sector, and that is very important because there is strong economic growth in Central Finland and the need for a trained workforce in the technical sector is crying out. As far as this pilot project, this pilot project on freedom of choice, was concerned in the section that I chaired, and it was quite a mess when it was said that it was unconstitutional to act as the government first suggested. However, we have corrected this point, but the result, which was recorded here in the report, also shows that the project is quite absurd. There is no point, according to the old paragraphs, in organising a pilot project of 30 million because it will be built up and not lived up to the old one. This appropriation should have been withdrawn and used more rationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u88	Mr President! Finland lives from exports, and companies in the area of ict and high technology in particular are precisely the export side. In this hall now for south-west Finland comes this kind of package of positive structural change, which allows engineering training, but as was just heard in this room, many other areas are short of engineers, even in the Oulu region. We have about 18500 people in high-tech and ict companies and in the next 10 years 7,000 know-how in the ict sector will retire. In a way, the Ict sector will only enter that retirement phase in the next 10 years, and even though we are trained, only about half, 3200 experts, will graduate during that period from the schools. In other words, the ict sector and the engineering sector need those training places despite the region. Thank you again for this deep bus in Oulu.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u89	Mr President! When I have listened to this debate and the comments from the opposition on how miserable things are, I have wondered a little bit. This is eight years in the swamp of the recession, and now that we are getting out and the first positive signs of economic development have arrived, the complaint continues to be worse than two. You can't help but wonder where the opposition's initiatives are. Then has something really been done wrong when we were able to grow? However, the basic truth must be borne in mind that when economic depression strikes the country, as has been the case with Finland, we have had to make movements that have been very unpleasant. This week I have met many entrepreneurs with investment projects in progress, genuinely large investments coming up that would bring new jobs to Finland, tax revenues to the state, and, above all, it would reduce the huge amount of unemployment expenditure from the state budget. This, too, is opposed by the authorities through various licensing processes. It would be good if we could:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u90	Mr President! Now that money is already being distributed for purposes for which there is no legislation yet,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u93	And the last response to the debate, Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u94	Mr President! With regard to the pilot money, the government is already piloting service bills. We have service voucher experiments based on the government's top projects, the current legislation. These are a clear continuum, in line with the Government Programme, where new approaches, new service models, are sought. These criteria for granting pilot funds must be based on existing legislation. It is true, Mr President, that we changed the criteria by which this appropriation is to be allocated because of the fact that social security legislation is not yet in force. This was more of a technical change that was necessary. But I am surprised at the attitude of you, the opposition. You have a foot on the brakes for the social renewal, you have a foot on the brakes for various experiments. It is in the interests of all Finns, especially the unemployed and pensioners who wait there in the health center queues to create new models, so that the same money will provide more and better services for everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u95	At this stage of the debate, I will not give any more answers, for example, by saying that the following four speeches are all from opposition groups. — Mr Gustafsson, the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u96	Mr President! I cannot be brief in saying to this freedom of choice pilot that, in this situation, I feel that this EUR 30 million is almost wasted money. It should be possible to spend money more wisely, for example on growth policy and knowledge policy. This raising of skills policy in this context is a bit of a donkey bridge. This report by the Committee on Finance highlights the growth prospects of different regions, describes the situation in south-west Finland and central Finland. The Tampere 3 project, which is an exceptionally large structural reform aimed at linking Tampere University of Technology, Tampere University of Applied Sciences and Tampere University of Applied Sciences into one university group, has also entered the report in three rows. I felt that this was a positive statement in the report by the Committee on Finance, of course, but I must say that this had been raised rather lightly and with little consideration compared to certain other areas and similar issues. I would therefore like to say, Mr President, that this Tampere 3 project is extremely important for Tampere and the whole region of Pirkanmaa. That is the centre of the Finnish manufacturing industry. After all, we have very strong high tech manufacturing in biomaterials and laser and semiconductor technology. In 2014, the turnover of Pirkanmaa industry was EUR 10 billion, and it employed 42,500 people. In other words, the Tampere region is a very important industrial product development hub, and the Tampere city region's strategies emphasise renewal, the importance of competence and innovation cooperation. I would like to emphasise that Pirkanmaa accounts for 10 per cent of the Finnish population and that the population in the region is expected to grow in the next few decades. Thus, this T3 project in Tampere, cooperation between universities in the region, will play a crucial role in the vitality and competitiveness of the region. We already have an exceptionally strong education infrastructure, but I would also like Parliament to give strong attention, in terms of the economy and resources, to this clearly unique group project, which I am now presenting a little and which I am going to deepen. Of course, in Tampere and Pirkanmaa we are now pleased that the Government has submitted a proposal to amend the University of Applied Sciences Act, which will then speed up and secure this cooperation between two universities and one university of applied sciences. Finally, it was, of course, a good thing that this report by the Committee on Budgets had been referred to, but it could have been done more broadly and also paid attention to these financial resources, which were not actually the subject of a word.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u97	Mr President! People have been looking for those who can be thanked for the great success of the Turku region's economy. Of course, we politicians are happy to take credit for ourselves, but there may also be reason to remember the entrepreneur, the actual operator of the business. And I think Jan Meyer spoke the words of wisdom that should be engraved in gold letters on the employment policy agenda of the next government. The quote goes like this: "Because we can't be the cheapest, we have to be the best." Finland’s economic growth is based on high knowledge, high processing and trained labour. Contributions to the security and development of education are extremely important from the point of view of both the regional economy and the national economy, and thus vocational education and training must be developed in cooperation with the industry in the region through growth pilot projects. That is why we have been very concerned about this network of vocational schools, its coverage and the possibility of vocational training throughout Finland, because it solves the vitality of a locality. It will determine whether young people can stay in the home or whether they need to leave, and what must be said about the candy, it will also resolve the situation so that girls will readily go outside the home to seek further education for themselves and the boys will be more likely to stay at home. In order to prevent exclusion, vocational training is extremely important. That is why we are concerned about this reduction in the resources for vocational training, both in economic terms and in terms of regional economic equality. In this respect, representatives of the Central Finnish Parliament have thanked the Government for the fact that the needs of Central Finland have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u102	Mr President! I have to start this speech again by returning to that general situation, because I do not know how to say it nicely, but it must be said that the recent assurance by the Minister of Finance that everything is well and functioning at its peak does not give a terribly convincing or credible impression. Certainly many citizens, when they watch headlines today, read the news and so forth, wonder what the hell is going on there, when the government is fighting, stumbles and speculates in public, that there is a third government crisis going on, whether the Prime Minister will soon need another jet or some sort of flight device to get rid of the President. This seems nothing more than a chaotic situation at the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on the whole. What is worrying about this is the situation in which, at the same time, the Committee on Budgets, in its own report, states that the employment measures proposed may be rather modest, and here and now we need them, because it is becoming impossible for the government to achieve its own objectives in terms of controlling employment and indebtedness. This is a fact after this amending budget too, unfortunately. That is why I am very concerned that there is such a stumbling block in this time when we should be able to make decisions if we are to be able to function. As indicated earlier in this debate, if, in this economic situation, when the economy is improving due to world growth, at the same time the number of unemployed is more or less unchanged, then it certainly does not give a good picture of the current situation. Unfortunately, when progress has been made on the vapu since midsummer, the picture of the situation in this respect is even more gloomy, and it is good that it has been said out loud here. But, President, I would like to say a few words about these entries in the amending budget: There has been a lot of talk here about these various regional contributions, and I am pleased that the whole committee now mentions in its report that there are these needs and other needs in areas other than south-west Finland which are caused by a certain type of positive structural change in different regions as well, and it is good that the Social Democrats, in their own option, should invest in all regions. It is good and very important that the committee mentions, among other things, this Tampere 3 project, which is a unique project, and we have asked for an expert opinion on it and we know that there will be significant additional resources needs in the autumn, and I expect and hope that these will be taken into account in this unique project, which is of great importance to the whole country, Tampere 3, and I hope that we will come back to that point as soon as autumn arrives. President! I would also like to highlight this whole package of communications, because I believe that this is a good and necessary allocation for supporting commercial news. The Social Democrats in their own option, however, point out that this appropriation should be as much as the working group presented, namely 8 million. After all, this government proposal totals one million, and then another million will be available from elsewhere, which means that the budget itself is inadequate. But it is very important that we can support a pluralist quality of media, news coverage, all that. Therefore, it is also very important that the solution for Yle was once again established that, when this structure of Yle tax was addressed, the financing of Yle was also secured for 2019, for which it was still open, and now it was agreed. — Yes, Mr Salolainen, I agree with your headrests. It is a happy, important and good thing that this was done for Yle. — I think it is important that commercial media news can now be supported. Then it is also important to note from this protest from the Social Democrats that in order for the whole field of communication to survive in this tumultuous world, it is now time, among other things, to pay attention to this digital alvi, because it is now easier to achieve it than it was before, and I would hope that this will be tackled as soon as possible. The Social Democrats are proposing that the digital alvi should be implemented in this context as a whole, and we also have proposals on this in our own report. Mr President! With these words. We need prompt action to promote employment growth, to break the trend in debt, and in these areas the government is not achieving its objectives, and that is an extremely worrying issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u103	Mr President! Some details of the amending budget before us today. First of all, it is good to say at the outset that the government is very confident that economic growth will deal with the problems facing this government. I was very surprised by the Minister of Finance’s approach, which was based on the fact that, as long as we wait here, the lances will eventually reach the port, and then the favourable world economy winds have blown this government’s ship into the port at last. It seems rather strange that it is not so much a matter of direction or of the government's own objectives, but there is a great belief that economic growth will be at the level that this will actually happen. In this respect, from the point of view of the SDP, we would like to say that this naivety will be quite dangerous, especially when we look at the forecasts for the coming year. On the other hand, it is good to note that the economic situation has improved and sends a positive signal but also somewhat in line with the economic policy objectives of this government. However, it is good to note that growth in the economy and the gradual improvement in employment do not evenly affect the different regions. It must be borne in mind that there is a risk that the differences between the different regions will become even worse. Now I am not just talking about employment policy, but I would like to say that supporting the region's own strengths could be a good new instrument in the range of instruments, which the government should involve in future economic growth measures, which I hope will still be in the pipeline. I would like to emphasise here that we have good examples from recent years of how supporting regional economies and promoting regional equality, particularly through investment in growth and employment, has brought new growth. Good examples of this include, for example, the measures taken to coordinate housing, transport and land use at the end of the last government term, which have brought significant economic growth during 2015, which was actually largely the result of this economic transition. On the other hand, it is worth pointing out that, on a smaller scale, a good example of this kind of support for the regional economy has been the situation in Äänekoski, because Äänekoski also invested quite heavily in strengthening the regional economy in its region during the last term of government, and it also holds a position on the whole of Finland. Now you can imagine that next I would like to talk to you about supporting the regional economy of south-west Finland. I am grateful that the government has acknowledged that Southwest Finland needs a package of positive structural changes from the government to the same spirit as it did last season, and now we are in a situation where I believe that this model, which recognises positive regional economic growth across Finland, should be tested elsewhere. But as far as this support for the regional economy in south-west Finland is concerned, I am very surprised, as a representative of a hundred people, by the opinion of the Minister of Finance that support for the regional economy and such support for regional policy could also flow into other regions. I have expected that in the south-west of Finland this positive structural change, now supported by the government, could also flow within the borders of Satakunta, because we have been waiting for this drainage effect. Two different liquidators have explained the support of the regional economy in this area and have come to a conclusion, both of them being liquidators, that the regional economy should also be supported on the Satakunta side. The Committee on Budgets' report also draws attention to this. So Satakunta should also have been targeted at these activities, and I think that this is an important message for Parliament as well. Another peculiar situation arose from the surprise of the discussion of the Civilization Division that this package of regional economies in the south-west of Finland is not really in line with the wishes of the region. It's kind of weird when two liquidators have already cleared this up. [Department: One! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u106	Mr President! The Finnish economy has finally entered a growth path in the context of international cyclical fluctuations. Exports are drawing, private consumption is increasing, and the government deserves praise for this development. On the other hand, employment is not increasing in the same proportion, at least not yet. In order to boost economic growth, it is important to encourage people to start up new businesses and to facilitate the employment of themselves and others. We must now try to make use of the exhilarating economic situation to create as many new jobs as possible. During this parliamentary term, the government has reduced the budget for employment. In 2016, the budget deficit had to be corrected with an additional budget, but the appropriations allocated for this year are still under-estimated. The increase of EUR 10 million proposed by the Government in its amending budget to introduce an active model of unemployment protection is not enough. In particular, the need for an additional allocation applies to pay subsidies and start-up grants for start-ups. An additional EUR 25 million allocated to pay support and start-up funds would enable public employment and business services to play an even more active role at the end of the year. That is why we have tabled an amending budget initiative for Parliament to add EUR 25 million to public employment and business services. Mr President! According to the International Report, the funds invested in technical research will be recovered three times as much as new patents, products and innovation-based growth enterprises and employment. This kind of research funding is provided by the Innovation Financing Centre Tekes. The reduction in Tekes' authorizations by the Board of Directors is negative, for example, against the activities of the Finnish Technology Research and Development Centre VTT Oy, because Tekes is the largest public research subscriber. In order to create new growth enterprises and jobs, funding for R & D needs to be increased. Mr President! In its amending budget under discussion, the Government will increase the budget allocated to support research, development and innovation by EUR 10 million. This increase is due to the revision of the payment estimates for financing decisions. However, even after the addition, EUR 50 million has been allocated to support RD activities less than in 2016. An increase of 10 million in R & D appropriations will enable new research projects to start at the end of the year. On the basis of this above, the KD Parliamentary Group has also submitted an amending budget initiative that Parliament will add EUR 10 million to the financing of research, development and innovation activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u107	Mr President! It is appropriate, in a few words, to accompany this supplementary budget or economic debate, which was also held here yesterday. I couldn't be there for a trip abroad. I believe that the position of the opposition also requires a comment. Mr Zyskowicz is right that the May Day speech from President Rinte was not successful, but this is a much broader issue, which is also reflected in Europe. Why is the social democratic movement in the election making great losses in Europe? Why is there no increase in support in Finland? This is because when the world changes, the environment changes, the context changes, the operating model should change, find a model that can defend the welfare society. It is not enough to hold on to the old one, say 'no' everywhere, it simply is not enough. I do not think that the SDP here has such an approach, a programme that is credible to people, and people sense this. As far as the Greens are concerned, I've already lost hope. In the old days, they were in favour of sustainable development, overgeneration. What we hear here today is 'no' everywhere, over the life of the money. Their supplementary budget options were the most indebted here in Parliament to me. For the first time in Finland, the Government has a concept, a strategic programme that aims to change and influence it. Finland has achieved — an incredible achievement — a competitiveness pact that is also admired by the world. There are structural reforms going on, there are important structural reforms now, and it is now important, in particular, to take on and promote work. Indeed, regional development requires a few comments. The new mayor says that Helsinki is the Finnish locomotive, if I interpret a little, and that the big cities are pulling Finland up. First of all, Helsinki is an important city, but this is an administrative city primarily: there is corporate governance here, there is state administration here, there are few export companies. The export companies are mainly on that coast. I'll take the New Town factory, why would Mercedes-Benz invest in it? Why in these regional cities, why in Pietarsaari, in Rauma, why is business success there? Because there are also strengths. There the cost level may be 20 per cent lower than here, there will be people with affordable housing, there will be safe and affordable housing, there will be services in order, there will be work motivation high. And this is the strength that makes it possible to have business activities in different parts of Finland. Mayor Vapaavuori also horrified the provincial administration, which is involved, and said that the province will conquer Turku and Tampere. Halloo, we also have 17 MPs from Varsinais-Suomi, two from outside the Turku region. There is no such danger; on the contrary, the region should be a strong player, which is specifically connected to the sub-regions, in order to promote business. I'll be brief. Mr Krista Kiuru's speech was perhaps wrong in that the positive restructuring of south-west Finland is a pilot project. It is a pilot project which is currently being examined and reported by another rapporteur, Esko Aho, in August. It is then intended to be promoted, then used as a pilot, when there is a need for labour in Lapland, there will be problems in Central Finland, problems of availability of labour and so on, and it will be understood as a pilot. It is true that knowledge is a very important issue, and why is there talk in Southwest Finland about master's training: because even the engineers do not move anymore, and when it comes to cutting-edge technology, we need to create a platform that generates high-tech and innovation applications. They will not be born unless there is such a critical mass, unless there is such a platform, unless there is such a platform, and such should necessarily be created. This positive structural change will expand elsewhere. Sub-contracting chains are expanding and thus business activity is expanding, and in this respect, too, these transport infrastructure investments are important: the New Town railway, and the Minister of Transport announced in the press release that it would be possible to: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u108	Mr President! In the latter half of the 2010s, Varsinais-Suomi is now doing well, but it is worth remembering that the area was still recently burdened by the transformation of the electronics industry and Nokia's withdrawal from Salo and their impact has still not been greatly relieved. Now the region is experiencing an exceptionally strong rise in the manufacturing industry, leading to the good news repeatedly coming from Turku Shipyard and the New Town Car Factory. The challenges of positive structural change will be addressed by increasing training in technical fields, promoting labour mobility and ensuring the availability of housing for mobile labour. The clearest challenge in terms of education is the lack of technical higher education, which must be resolved in order to safeguard the development of the province in the long term. It is good that the additional budget has remembered Varsinais-Suomi. The electrification project for the New Town Track is important. At this stage, it mainly serves freight transport, perhaps the most Norwegian Yara, but, as the Committee on Finance points out, we must also try to make the section of the track accessible to passenger transport, thereby improving public transport and the availability of labour. It would be important that in Varsinais-Suomi, we could start the much needed training of engineers in the technology industry. Now, however, in this supplementary budget, a total of EUR 14 million will be allocated to the development of technical higher education, which is also a good start, but there is not yet a future of own training for the technology industry. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u109	Mr President! The Government's proposal for the 2017 amending budget under discussion is extremely good at describing the phenomena of this time and the situation where Finland is. Finland is at the beginning of the growth career that has been aimed at for eight years. And when you listen to what the opposition has to say, all you can do is wonder what is coming out of it. Should we have continued on the old line that we would have gone deeper and deeper and hoped that some strange employment money would have done the job better? These employment funds are also needed, but without real economic growth and the rise of the Finnish export industry from this recession swamp will not rise. But now we have been given and shown by this government the way to go. Against the background of listening to the speeches of a few opposition representatives, I am almost shocked by the way the opposition parties have spoken. Finland has never been able to cope with gloom before, and Finland has always risen from difficult situations. One can say that Finland has been at its strongest when it has been at its weakest. Brave Kekkonen said in his day, "Do we have the wisdom to prosper?" It has been over half a century since Pamfletti was written, but that book did well to describe the fact that, when we have the potential in strong times, it may not be enough to take advantage of those opportunities, and now we are living in a time when these opportunities must be used. Indeed, investment has started, as reflected in this amending budget. The government's proposal shows well the actual estimate of revenue, which is increased by EUR 482 million. This reflects the fact that growth is about to start, but let no one imagine that this growth will survive if we leave at this stage to make bad decisions and do not follow the line. If we do not keep the line, it will lead to the immediate eating of the food for growth, and we will get deeper and deeper into the swamp of debt. Every sensible Member of Parliament knows at this stage that the amount of debt and tolerance that we can tolerate are beginning to be at the upper limit. So now is the moment when the debt increase has to fold and gradually start to pay back the debt. This is done by nothing other than reducing unemployment. The cost of unemployment, about EUR 7 billion a year for all its costs, is a shocking sum, and when we take on the other additional costs of unemployment, for example, by simply halving unemployment, we will have billions of savings in the state budget. This would be extremely important for both local government and central government finances. That is why what has been said in this debate on the part of the opposition is quite astonishing. Well, whatever the speeches are, the government must continue along the same lines. New investments must be supported by the best possible means. Then opportunities must be given to different regions in their own strengths. There has been quite a lot of talk about Varsinais-Suomi. We must also remember, for example, Lapland, Kainuu, North Karelia, where there are opportunities that should be supported. This week I have met many entrepreneurs who have their own investments under way. Please note that these entrepreneurs are putting a large amount of their own money into their own business, innovations that carry long into the future, create jobs, livelihoods for their own region, and, above all, many of them are active in the export industry, which means that this brings Finland the much-needed foreign currency in export trade. This is why it is extremely important to support such companies. One common denominator in these discussions with entrepreneurs is that everyone has been saddened by the fact that, of course, when construction is needed for their investments, all permits are blocked by all means available. There is an environmental permit, quite incomprehensible songs, such artificial braking measures: when an environmental permit is missing some bird survey or there are not enough worms to be counted in the backyard to be allowed. This whole thing doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u110	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen has just made a very good speech, and I thank him for that. In the 1990s, Finland carried out a comprehensive survey of the construction and renovation of new waterways. It was then found that water transport was the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. It is up to 15 times cheaper for the environment than for road transport. The Oulu Seaway project is very important for business transport. It is a good thing that this is government-conscious. The cost estimate for the project is EUR 18.4 million, but I think it makes sense to finance it. Let's hope there's a way to build the fairway as soon as possible. The deepening of the fairway and the new approach will increase the transport capacity of vessels and the competitiveness of the region's industry. It is an excellent thing that the deepening of the Vuosaari maritime corridor is also progressing and that the project will be launched in next year's budget at the latest, as the Government has said in the context of further budget negotiations. The volume of transport through the port will increase considerably with the transport of the Äänekoski plant, and the size of the container transport to the port of Vuosaari will increase. This requires deeper depth. Mr President! In Central Finland, a whole new wide range of pulp mills are under construction, such as Äänekoski, Varkaus and Kuopio, which need a low-cost waterway as a cheaper and least polluting mode of transport. The planned factories are on the waterways. If we combined Päijänne and Saimaa with Päijänne and Mäntyharju channels, we would be able to secure transport from inland lakes to the sea and not just rely on the Saimaa Canal. In this way, tourism, in particular the large pulp mills and other industrial plants that are planned, would benefit. Transport of heavy goods traffic would also decrease on roads, which would increase road safety and reduce road wear and tear. The lease agreement for Saimaa Canal was renewed in 2012, but at the same time the rent increased four-fold compared to the previous one. The basic fee is EUR 1.22 million. It is possible to use the channel throughout the year, but the problem with the channel is that we are totally dependent on Russia and on the integrity of the agreement. If a decision were made to combine Päijänne and Saimaa with Päijänne and Mäntyharju channels, the investments would also lead to a long-term increase in employment and an increase in industrial competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. Tourism would also receive a boost, which could raise the localities of inland waterways to a new rise. Mr President! I put a written question to the Minister about the construction of the above-mentioned channel about exactly two years ago. In reply, the Minister estimated that the construction of the Mäntyharju Canal linking Päijänne to Saimaa in 2000 would cost approximately EUR 300 million. The benefit-cost ratio of the project was then estimated to be very low. The reply also stated that the best way to ensure the development of inland waterway transport is by investing in improving the operating conditions of the Saimaa Canal and the Saimaa Region. But here, of course, is the fact that what we do then if, for some reason, the Saimaa Canal is no longer available to Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u111	Mr President! From this draft amending budget this year, you can see that the turnaround of central government finances has taken place when, for example, the tax revenue estimate can be increased by almost half a billion euros in a positive direction. VAT revenue has also improved, and car tax has even increased slightly more than inheritance and gift taxes. It is also important for the government’s objectives that the debt ratio is slowly slowing down, and this amending budget is in fact taking EUR 180 million less debt than was intended. I do not deny that 5.4 billion additional debt is still very high, but the direction towards debt reduction is the right one, so the government is moving towards the objectives it has set. In my speech, I thought that I would become more committed to two entities through this great economic turnaround. Indeed, they are encouraging figures, which the Ministry of Finance received last week, that this year's gross domestic product would grow by 2.4 per cent. There are even higher estimates for it, Nordea now proposed an increase of up to 3%. There are 40,000 fewer unemployed than last year. At the same time, more jobs are open, even the number of long-term unemployed has fallen. In my own country, Lapland, there are 1,400 fewer unemployed people than one year ago at the same time. It may not seem to be a large number in national standards, but for each of these people it is a huge deal personally. So I thought I would talk a little about infrastructure and how important the projects initiated by the state are. I congratulate Mr Vuosaarta, of course. Oulu that the deepness of the port was reached there. However, I hope that, in future, port issues will be prepared in full. If you look at the freight flows from the north, the combined transport volumes of the ports of Kemin and Tornio are already larger than many more southern ports, and the competitive situation, especially in the north, is very tight when you think of the fact that a very large 15-metre deep port route is being built on the Swedish side of Luleå, so of course the northern ports are also competing side by side with international ports. In view of the many possible investments in industry, in the bioeconomy, the fact that 7 % of the net exports from this small export region of Kemi-Tornio are made by Finland, it would be very important that, in the next phase, the port of Kemi should also get deeper. When it's supposed to be The Kaidi bio-incineration project is progressing, which comes right to the side of the port of Ajos, and this would be very justified. In this respect, promises have also been made at the Ministry of Transport. When investments start to take place, then the state will also look at the situation in its ports. It would be very important for the port of Kemi to be deepened as well. It would otherwise not require other investments, such as rail yards or tracks. Secondly, the amending budget allocates EUR 5 million to the Hitura mine for the aftermath of environmental damage, which, of course, is absolutely essential if the mine is to be closed down properly over the years. It is done in three stages, it can take up to 15 years. Unfortunately, this 5 million will not be enough, but will probably require another 10 to 15 million in the future. In this respect, I find it intolerable that the security of the Hitura mine is only EUR 1.99 million, i.e. approximately EUR 2 million. It is very important that the Committee on Finance has drawn attention to this issue and has received a statement that the government must ensure that after-treatment of mines is ensured, so that, even during their operation, it is possible to ensure that the responsibility cannot remain with the taxpayers. This is a very important issue. I hope that the government will do this quickly and then bring it to us in Parliament. There are 40 wells operating in Finland, and many of them have worked very well. There is certainly room for the mining industry in Finland as well as for other industries, but it must be done in a sustainable way. At the moment, I do not believe that these environmental assurances for mines are sufficient if taxpayers' money is to be put in them as much as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u112	Mr President! The growth of the technology industry, as has been said many times here, is slowed down by the lack of skilled labour. There are not enough technical experts in the labour market. The lack of experts in general is one of the main obstacles to this too, if we want to reach the employment target of 72% in this period. So this is not a small thing. This is a really big thing. I am surprised at Mr Haraka's laughter when I commended the fact that these areas of positive structural change were raised, other than south-west Finland, which is now, of course, the best-known example and pilot, and I was pleased that Central Finland, for example, has been raised here. After years, Central Finland is now very much on the rise with all indicators, and there is nothing ridiculous about it. I can also say that the amending budget will not be able to correct all of this, given that it has been longer in the house. But we should begin to discuss the situation in this Chamber and also in the Committee on Budgets more broadly throughout the country, as required by the Section for Education and Science, to discuss all these regions, areas of both positive structural change and negative structural change, and to look at in a big picture what to do. I do not think it is a laughing matter, but I think it is a very sensible way to act in this situation. Of course, we would be happy to receive more money in Central Finland too, if it is to come. In particular, the infrastructure is still weak in Central Finland: for example, the good functioning of the Äänekoski plant, which extends far to the rest of the country, requires better transport connections, and the Kirri-Tikkakoski project has already been tried to achieve the world's page and still has not been achieved. I hope that we can finally get that right now. Let me briefly mention this Tampere 3 project and the need for resources: I must say that we do not yet know how this Tampere 3 project will succeed. There have been quite a lot of problems at this early stage, so I think we should look at how the win-win situation can be achieved there and how these schools can genuinely be combined in such a way as to make it better and more efficient, eliminate overlaps and so on. Is it not precisely the aim of such a project to find new ways of producing more efficient and better and better quality learning paths for students and to eliminate these famous overlaps and deepen cooperation? I would not be the first to think that we need a huge amount of resources. In my opinion, these are the very resources that could be found if, in the future, genuine cooperation, once they have resolved their problems, could then be better able to do so. I am not, of course, opposed to this project, but I do not think that we can assume that a huge amount of money will be put off first and then the best will be hoped for, but in the same way that all the pilots must first see that the system is in order and that it works, and then we can think about the funding. Finally, I am very pleased that the ministerial group on economic policy decided to grant EUR 24 million in counterpart money to universities of applied sciences for the first time in the history of universities of applied sciences. It is indeed a step forward. I believe that if we do not use the expertise and usability of both higher education sectors in this situation too, which, fortunately, is now greatly improving, then we will be leaving a great deal of existing resources untapped. I hope that universities of applied sciences are seen just as important in their own sector as the university sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u113	Mr President! Today there has been a debate on the 2017 amending budget, and all the speeches have said that the economy is growing. Who has been more satisfied, who is less, I myself am among those who are really satisfied with the situation that has brought the economy to a growth path. The result is, of course, that employment will also improve. It is good for all of us Finns. The situation in the various regions has been greatly raised and compared. South-west Finland, Western Finland is currently in good oxygen, as has been said in many speeches. Central Finland is doing well, but even in the north, at least in the spring of the winter, tourists were very satisfied and they also reported growth. As an Eastern Finn, a member of the South-East Finnish Parliament, I hope that this fruit of growth will become even stronger in our territory. Here Mr Kulmala made an interesting speech on the networks and raised a number of channel projects. I appreciate his view and I hope that these issues will be studied as forward-looking projects, because it is true that these canal projects will have far-reaching effects. They are efficient, economic and environmentally friendly ways of transport, but at the moment they are quite challenging from a profitability point of view. And, of course, it also has this security aspect in relation to the Saimaa Canal. The situation of ports in Finland is so that we have large ports there in the Bothnian, Kemi, Oulu region, Vuosaari here in Helsinki, but I would like to highlight in particular the port of the Kotka-Hamiina region. The growth figures there have now, as I hear, started to rise, and that is a sign that the heavy industry, mainly the forestry industry, has also reached this competitive and growth path. I hope, therefore, that all investments in the fairway will aim to ensure that Finnish ports are well fed and that this will give us well-being throughout Finland. In today's debate, this Kymi Ring project and the investment on Highway 12 have risen on many occasions. I would also like to make it clear to everyone that this Kymi Ring project is a project about 10 years ago that started at the time, and Minister Vehviläinen was already making a strong contribution to it as Minister of Transport. This railway project, which is physically located in the municipality of Iti, is an important project for the whole of southern and south-eastern Finland and the region of Kouvola, Lahti, especially as a result of future events. This line will include driver training, the Defence Forces will train heavy-duty drivers in the future, and a road safety and testing track will be built in this connection. This is a good addition to the motor vehicle industry, which we now have here in Finland, with New Town still in good spirits. And then this road project, Highway 12. 14 million is a well-founded investment and financing project for highway 12 and the Tillola-Keltti region. In this context, a different level interface, a medium-rail bypass and a new parallel road will be built on the road, and these are all issues that are very relevant to road safety. Highway 12 is the main route on the Pori-Tampere-Lahti-Kouvola route, the port of Kotka, in an area with significant industrial and other transport links. It should be borne in mind that both these projects, both Kymi Ring and vt 12, are conditional on the realisation of the total funding and the private contribution to the Kymi Ring project. In other words, these are well-founded projects, also on the basis of the huge amount of private funding involved in this project. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u114	Mr President! Let's go into a little bit of detail here. There has been a debate on this very subject by the previous representative: where is the money going and how? Certainly it is very important for road transport projects to be directed at the right direction, but is it the case that, at the moment, certain regions have a key role to play in the export industry? We have heard speeches today to deepen ports in Vuosaari, Kemi. And when we have existing ports that are already working really well, it is worth concentrating on those central government funds which are central to national income funding. One hundred is the province in which transport infrastructure is now worth concentrating. That 14 million is worth concentrating on where there are more opportunities to promote export potential. When we discuss, however Mr Heinonen said, Kimi Ring or anything else, it is good that regional influences and tourism are also discussed in this box. But it is not at all as economical as if we were discussing what is the advantage of the export industry. In this debate, too, we must be able to focus on what is most important at national level. And in that sense I would like the debate to move in the direction that the Satakunta and the export industry, with their deep ports, are more at the centre than the construction of new deep ports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u115	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for one thing here, and it is an appropriation to deepen the Oulu Seaway. In other words, this is intended to increase the transport capacity of ships and then bring competitiveness to the industry, and it is precisely in order to boost exports that this issue is important. The Northern Finnish industry needs all the support it can get, because long transport journeys are, for example, a burden on the sawmill industry. This Oulun meridian project is a very good project, and it is precisely it that makes up for this competitive situation in international competition. Larger vessels will lead to a reduction in unit prices, for example, from these timber loads. In this context, I would like to remind you that other support is needed. For example, transport subsidies, which now always seem to be on the trigger, must definitely be maintained. I would even like to see a significant increase in them. With the current level of transport aid, we will lose in competition to our neighbour, Sweden, so it is not in any way to the advantage that we are second in this northern competition. In other words, I would like to raise the issue of this transport aid in the planning and construction of the future budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u116	Mr President! I do not want to deny that this is precisely the case, that certain investments should be made for this trade and transport, but we must also remember the importance of maritime transport and how it is financed. We've got it. In Satakunta, companies pay for the northern ports to be open. We pay 1.72 points for the northern ports being open. Would it not be more sensible to build a good, well-functioning rail transport between ports and industrial installations, let alone to deepen certain ports because of the costs of maritime transport, because part of the 100-day industry is paying for everything you are now hoping for?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u117	Looks like there's a little more need for a debut right now. Let's take one round here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u118	Mr President! That's quite extraordinary to hear from Mrs Myllykoski, who I very much appreciate. I've been thinking he's thinking about the whole of Finland. I must say that it will not be like all things in the head if it is said that there is no need for a deeper seaport in the north. We have the most tonnes per capita to transport and our transport costs are very high. When this sulphur directive and everything else came on top of it, it is incredible that it is claimed that there is no need in Finland for the capacity that we currently have in the north.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u119	Mr President! As was heard here, when these big investments are planned and made, the interests of the whole of Finland must be the biggest driver and the issue to think about. If these are considered from the point of view of one city or one province, then that overall benefit for Finland is not the best possible. In this context, it is also worth recalling these rail projects. If you compare costs and benefits, then one and apparently the most profitable project is to speed up the Helsinki-Tampere interval so that it can be brought into the one-hour schedule. It is also a solution to housing policy. It is also an export-related effort. This connection serves in the direction of Jyväskylä, in the direction of Seinäjoki and in the direction of Vaasa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u120	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski raised an important issue in the debate on how these ports and fairway projects between the provinces should be developed. It is on that basis that this 14 million on Highway 12 is an important project for Kymenlaakso. We have a port in the Kotka-Hamina region, which is currently the largest port of export in Finland. This serves the south-eastern Finnish forest industry and Äänekoski, the Varkaus region, us Kymenlaakso, Kuusankoski, Kouvola region and also the Lahti region. But I fully agree that northern goods must pass through northern ports. The ports of the Kemi-Oulu region must be restored, the fairways must be restored, while the Turku region also has important areas of the forest industry. It was also good news about New Town — it is not necessary for those cars to be shipped from there to any other place except the port of New Town. The competition between the provinces is, of course, fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u121	I will give the floor to the representatives of Myllykoski and Parviainen, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u122	Mr President! I did not want to say that we should not go from the north, because it is worth carrying. But the truth is that it must also be seen that, in my opinion, it is unfair for an entire industry to have a province with excellent ice conditions to pay for all other ports during the ice age, all that. The Ministry of Transport had already prepared a billboard during the previous government period, which considered how certain ports should have reasonable transport routes. I hope that we can discuss this with Mr Suutari. But I think it is very important that the export industry operates through our ports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u123	Mr President! Of course, overall planning is important. A small country doesn't have the resources for anything. But this The port of Oulu is just a port that serves a very wide area up to the eastern border from there to Kainuu high towards Lapland. This, if anything, is a project worth taking forward. So has the government. I would like to stress that here: As a city of Oulu, it is very much involved in setting up this port that it is not solely dependent on the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u124	Now we go to the list of speakers, and then we go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u125	Mr President! As far as the amending budget is concerned, it is good that the region of south-west Finland now receives this so-called positive restructuring funding. The Ministry of Education and Culture has proposed that higher education in technology and research and innovation should also be strengthened, and that EUR 2 million be reserved for it alone. As has already been discussed in the Chamber today, there is, of course, a shortage of know-how in South-West Finland, but there is also a shortage in Central Finland and also in Northern Ostrobothnia. We've got it. In the Oulu region, sudden structural change measures have led to the loss of thousands of jobs in the ict sector, almost 5,000 jobs, between 2011 and 2012, and new jobs have also been created. More than 400 ict companies and a total of over 650 high technology companies are re-established in the city, employing 18500 experts, especially in the ict sector and in the high technology sector. How, then, is unemployment on this side of North Ostrobothnia? We have unemployed job seekers in 25,000 Ely Centres, and only 9 of them under 30 years of age are ICT specialists with a higher university degree. Which means that only 9 of the 25,000 unemployed are in that business. And when I see that there has also been a representative colleague in the Chamber and, in the past, an Ihalainen minister, there is indeed a considerable amount of these sudden structural changes — thanks to the minister at the time — of which, in a way, the Oulu region has been reborn. But this also means that there is already a shortage of know-how in the ict sector and that there will be a shortage in the future, for 7,000 ict experts will retire over a period of more than ten years, and even if all our training places are counted, only about 3,200 will be completed in the same period, which means that about half will be needed. It is therefore important that the University of Oulu has suggested that something should be done about this matter this year too. Then there was the amending budget for transport investments, which, in fact, were just mentioned in the debate: the Oulu Seaway. In other words, the increase in exports of sawn timber passing through the port of Oulu has been invariably plus 20 per cent in recent years, which means that the half has grown, and large sawn timber companies have reported that they are saving around EUR 400000 per year in transport costs when this deep way comes in the future, even after next year, to enable ships to almost double their size. However, the dredging costs, which have been essential — every two years, every four years — can be abandoned because this deep passage, which is being made, will come to the natural route, so that these dredging costs will also become savings in the future. And as Mrs Parviainen has just pointed out, the Port of Oulu and the City of Oulu will participate in this by nearly EUR 6 million, and therefore the share of the state will be less than half of the project's share. I quite agree that it is important, as the Committee on Finance also felt it was important that the Vuosaari maritime corridor should also be deepened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u126	Mr President! To this last debate, I would add that nearly two thirds of the funding of the Port of Oulu is provided by the local authorities and the state accounts for only 15 million of that investment of just under 50 million. And if we look at these track repairs: we sometimes have investment plans for the Savo track, and if we were to draw proper lines to Kainuu — as is currently the case elsewhere here in the south — it would mean an investment of hundreds of millions, even billion. So we're not talking about the same money. The region of Kainuu and Oulu and the area of Lapland are built in precisely the way that those tracks go there to Oulu and Raahe and that means that the goods must be taken. This cannot be thought of as putting more on those lines once they have just been put into them. Of course, if there is the will to put more on the tracks, we could still do it, because the fact is that there is something to transport in the north. And then, at the moment, Finland has just positive vibrations in the air. We have much better prospects. The period of economic decline and infallibility of this past decade seems to be receding. People, that is, consumers, and especially entrepreneurs and businesses, once again have faith in the future. This positive view is the result of a slight increase in exports and a further improvement in export prospects. Although we are just passing the 2007 exports, employment has also been growing rapidly. It has grown by over 40,000 in the last year. This shows that companies had more capacity in their personnel than they would have had to because they tried to believe and believed in the future so much that they did not put away all the workforce that should have been deducted from them. However, there is now a need to increase it. Positive development has also played its part in this Government's goal-oriented effort to achieve Finland's competitiveness. It is clear that if Finland had not been raised in relation to others, we are thinking of Sweden or Germany or other countries with which we are competing as to who is buying our products and services... Competitiveness is essential. We have made it clear that companies have the belief that we will be competitive in the future. At the moment we are not all of it, we may be a little more expensive, but we are making these products and services a little cheaper. The faith of the business field was visible at the beginning of the reign. It was believed that the government would quickly make the reforms in the government programme. But then for about a year there was such a period of stabilisation and decline. That stronger faith has come just this spring, when consumers have also seen that faith. Consumer confidence is also currently at a high level, and the increase in the workforce of service companies shows that consumers have confidence in the future and think that they can also start to consume slightly more than before. Mr President! The growth of the central government budget by nearly half a billion and the extension of positive prospects to a longer future will allow for further growth. Of course, the most important thing is to invest in the growth of knowledge. Investments in research and innovation go further. In my opinion, the strengthening of polytechnics and the rapid targeting of engineering and engineering training where necessary is excellent. Investing in the fairway of the port of Oulu to deepen it to 12.5 metres enables cheaper freight transport to the areas of North Ostrobothnia, Kainuu and Lapland. The Government has understood that, fortunately, responding to the increase in transport needs in the north is for the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u127	Mr President! Yesterday we were here to discuss the big picture of the economy. We Greens then called on the government, in the budgetary plan, to speed up, among other things, the process of family leave reform and to speed up the assessment of business support. We hope that these issues will be taken into account in the August budget debate. This additional budget includes a few odd appropriations. I have still not heard from the minister I asked, or from the government representatives who are sitting here, how this Kymi Ring would be a nationally important project. 3.5 million plus 14 million is a large sum, and it would be genuinely important to know on what basis this is defined as a project of national significance. I have still not received an answer to this. If the representatives of the government parties wish to respond, please. The next point is this piloting of freedom of choice and the EUR 30 million allocated to it: that too is a problematic item of expenditure. It is questionable that tens of millions of euros will be given to a project whose legal basis is uncertain. So the government will give EUR 30 million for the piloting of freedom of choice when the law is still in the process and when we do not know exactly how the future law will take shape. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u128	Mr President! Mr Yanari had so little to say that this reply came a little unexpectedly but will be answered as far as Kymi Ring is concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u129	And now we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u130	Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion here about this Kymi Ring, and Mr Heinonen has already justified that sporting aspect. But I also want to sharpen it when it comes to this 14 million, which is for Highway 12, that I think there is a distortion here to say that the money would go to the Kymi Ring project. It's not like that. It's like building a highway. Transport connections to Kymi Ring will also be made in this context, but, as I have said several times here, they will do, as I have said, the Keltti-Kuusankoski interface, the section of the road, the new bypass, the kind where light traffic can reach, the traffic on the local road, the middle lane and the bypass. These are not sports projects; they are clear highway 12 projects. There is, then, a reason why fairway projects should be supported here. This highway 12 is a very important transport route towards the port of Kotka-Hamina, which is the largest port of export in Finland, and it is already on that basis that this 14 million vt 12 is well founded. But I would also like to stress that it is conditional on this Kymi Ring project being made progress in terms of the significant share of private money. I would therefore like to see a cultural or sports project which will involve as much a private financier as this Kymi Ring project. If we have all future opera houses or sports facilities financed in the future on the same financial basis that private funding is required,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u131	Mr President! I too thought about this longer picture of the economy, which has been well discussed here, to say a word. It is a good thing that there has been such a positive turnaround in economic growth, a little above 2% this year, but it is good to remember that these estimates are based on the fact that in the next two years it will be either 1% or one and a half. And we are all well aware that there is quite a lot of confusion about what will happen to economic growth in the future, so from the point of view of employment, this rate of growth will not be sufficient, and in this respect, these positive news is important, but it is also good to emphasise that, in terms of our economy, exports and employment, not all the conditions are yet in good shape. Cost competitiveness and overall competitiveness have also improved, but it is worth recalling that the main factor in its improvement has been the impact of the Kiki Agreement. It has clearly strengthened our cost-competitiveness vis-à-vis key competitor countries, and it will have and will have a very significant impact on our success and on this image of the economy. Hopefully, now that labour market solutions are being made again in the autumn and some feel that these kiky chains will be removed, there would be solutions that could, on the one hand, support employment and, on the other hand, support reasonably good purchasing power. In these circumstances, in which the state of public finances remains relatively weak, the most effective factor and the most effective factor in stabilising the fast economy is certainly an increase in the employment rate. This rule of thumb is that raising the 1% employment rate will bring EUR 800 million in good public finances. A one-day reduction in the duration of unemployment brings 26 million good public finances. From this point of view, it is good to look at these things, and that is why raising this kind of active labour market policy from hibernation would be very important, and its funding should be more robust than it is in the additional budget, and the municipalities should not be deprived of the opportunities to implement self-employment measures, especially for the long-term unemployed and young people. However, we should be able to take a look at the conditions for longer-term growth over the parliamentary term. It relates to measures to safeguard knowledge-driven and export-driven growth. In the future, economic growth will be based on R & D investments, innovation, knowledge, expansion of export base and productivity gains. And many of these big criteria for economic growth are being cut and do not understand that they are future investments. The state must, of course, play a role in this policy and also in ownership policy, and state-owned companies have an important role to play. In this respect, the Government’s idea — now linked to the additional budget — to calculate the share of Neste Corporation’s ownership from 50.5 to 33.4 — is a poorly thought-out proposal. There is no indication in the explanatory statement that this is something to do with a strategic partnership or its kind of action, but that this is more of a detachment of money. Together with Fortum, Neste has been one of the strategic companies that we have wanted to highlight both in terms of energy policy and security of supply. I do not think that the ownership base of one third is a safe holding in these uncertain world conditions, and that is why we have been of the opinion that under no circumstances should this threshold of ownership have gone down now. I would like to raise this now, because it is now related to the policies taken in connection with this additional budget, on which, of course, decisions of principle have already been taken in the past. I am simply pulling together in the sense that it is very important to strengthen the knowledge and innovation policy, and in this respect, these contributions to Tekes' budget and so away should be tried to strengthen rather than cut. We have presented in the alternative programme such a new era of industrial and technological policy goals and new key projects for the government, which are related to the strengthening of the circular economy, in which we are well placed,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u132	Mr Myllykoski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u133	Mr President! Perhaps now, like this reply, I am leaving here to conjure up my own words about how enthusiastic I was about that speech by Mr Ihalainen, which highlighted the importance of the kiky agreement as the engine of the export industry and economic growth in Finland at the moment, as one part. However, I have some criticism that when it was in the case of the Kiki agreement that the holiday wages of public workers were cut by 30%, I do not see any connection here that it was the executive force so that we have economic growth. In that sense, I dare to criticise that, as we have just heard, that the effects will only come for the next few years. As far as suppliers of products are concerned, I do not believe that we have seen that, when one third of the holiday wages of nurses or janitors in the municipal sector are cut, it would help us to have a German company that buys products from the technology industry calculates that it now buys these products more enthusiastically from Finland, because the wages of cleaners are calculated in terms of holiday wages. In that sense, I am a little critical of what I have just heard. With regard to central government finances, I will come back to two specific issues. What was really great was what Mr Heinonen said in his own speech about this matter for the state of the mining industry. In that sense, I particularly agree with what the representative has said. Mr Heinonen pointed out that we should not have an automatic system which always allows us in the mining industry to have the costs of closing the mines at the expense of the government. It is completely unacceptable and needs to reform the mining law. It is very important that we have a working and good mining law, but it must explicitly require that the mine has some kind of security such as insurance, so that it does not fall on the government. I believe that we are still in the same situation as we have so far with regard to wage subsidies, but with regard to the closure of the mine and bankruptcy, the state cannot be the paying man. With regard to gold mines in particular, we know that, according to world market prices, the mining industry is in good or very bad health, and at that point the state cannot be the risk taker that allows, for example, a Canadian mining company to operate here so that every time it goes badly, it will close and Finland will pay the costs. This cannot be the case. That is why I am absolutely on the line of Mr Heinonen from the People's Party that something should be done. Secondly, I would not like to say 'Kimi track' or anything, but 14 million for transport investment: It has been a good thing that there has been a debate here that it is not exclusively related to it and to the region. But when we have spoken here about the 14 million that could be used to deepen the ports, even though there have been proposals from my own party to Kem or Vuosaari, I would like to say once again that, when we already have what Finland needs in Satakunta, we do not have to build them all over Finland, because our port network is now very comprehensive and extensive. I do understand from the Northern region that there should be effective ports for heavy industry, because our infrastructure does not work on this west coast.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u134	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In fact, I was prepared to like this very point of view from our section and from Belvedere Mining Oy, to which Mr Myllykoski referred. Let us extend it to the point that these contributions are, therefore, the contributions of our entire housing and environment section, but also the contributions of the entire Committee on Finance. Let us hope that they will also become statements by the whole Parliament. This is a very hard record which was brought in from the Housing and Environment Section to be approved by the Committee on Finance, i.e. a statement which requires the government to ensure that after-treatment of mines is ensured even during their operations, so that the responsibilities relating to mine closures are not left to the State and also evaluates the optimal level of guarantees for mining operations. This is about the Hitura mine that was founded in 1970 in Nivala, which was run by Outokumpu for a long time. It had been closed half a dozen times before this bankruptcy, the bankruptcy of 2015, after the fall in the price of nickel, i.e. due to the lack of profitability problems. In 2007, Outokumpu then sold this mine to Canadian giants, who naturally, of course, founded a subsidiary in Finland, whose journey was difficult from the beginning. In a few years, I reported positive results from this mine, money left for Canada, and then several years were difficult, and eventually in December 2015, the mine went bankrupt. This mine, Belvedere, was collateralized for $2 million. Well, they're not good enough for anything. When attempts were made to make them higher, they had been poured out through complaints that they were unreasonable. Well, the guarantees of $2 million have not been enough to address environmental problems in any way. In 2016, an amount of EUR 818000 was allocated to the prevention and limitation of environmental damage and the planning of closure operations for the mine in question, and now EUR 5 million will be added to the closure of the nickel mine owned by Belvedere Mining Oy in Nivala. According to the report we have received, this too will not be enough, but will be spoken of as much as 15 million for this mine. The committee and our section considered it necessary, therefore, to pay more attention to the post-mine management already during the mine operations, so that the responsibilities associated with their closures are not left to the State. It is therefore a responsibility system, which was clarified in 2014 under the leadership of Environment Counsellor Anna-Maija Pajukallio, that came up with a very good report on tackling these problems on more than 100 pages. But for some reason the government of our country has not taken them up, and I therefore underline that this is a very hard record from our section and the Committee on Finance that we now want to push the government of our country into action here, so that the liability system should be changed. It is therefore a question of the industry currently raising funds for the fund that can be used to repair environmental damage, but there is a condition that this money should not be used in the event of bankruptcy. Well, those situations are usually the worst when the planes stop. Of course, this has already been the case in these even bigger mining problems. Of course, this is made even crazier by the fact that the Canadian parent company is interested in buying this mine back for itself, as long as they do not get these environmental damage on their necks. This situation is totally unsustainable. According to a report from our Housing and Environment Division, we have some of these mines where this same risk exists. That is why, through this statement, I hope that the whole of Parliament will agree with it, a firm demand will be placed on the government to ensure that these things are done in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u135	Mr President! As a small deal, we still cannot transfer funds from mining directly to Canada. We don't have a system like that. But we have a loophole: if we have a subsidiary in Sweden with a Canadian mining company, we can transfer funds there, which can then be transferred to Canada. But we do not currently have the possibility in mining to transfer income directly from Finland to Canada. — Just like this as a small repair.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u137	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u138	Mr President! In this amending budget, very important additions and withdrawals have been made to strengthen precisely positive structural change across Finland. In particular, it is advisable to increase these investments in knowledge in such a way as to bring these professionals to areas where business activity has started to progress well, but there is a clear need for the know-how. For example, there is such a situation in Varsinais-Suomi, where this pilot has been built and, as has been mentioned in this proposal from the Committee on Finance, these investments are needed all over Finland, because in fact there is also a shortage of experts in those areas where unemployment has been sustained for a long time. A good example is the region of Kainuu, where there is a major problem at the moment for companies because they do not have enough workers with the right skills in these areas. These are, for example, in the metal sector, in the construction sector, in the tourism sector, and even though there is training in this area, it is clear that this paragraph does not work at all at the moment. It is important to be able to build a type of training model, such as this reform of future vocational education and training, which will be discussed in the next section, and then not only at secondary level, but also at a higher level, that experts can be secured in the region already in the current situation, and, in view of the bioeconomy, which is important government projects, there will be a large and significant employer in the future, so we certainly do not have enough experts in this area, but we need the development of whole fields of education, including in Northern Finland and the region of Kainuu, as an example. There is evidence in Finland that in areas where education is not sufficient, for example on the higher education side, there are not enough of these factors. For example, if you consider teacher training, we have seen this same phenomenon in Kainuu that we already have a certain shortage of replacements and actual candidates in the future. Now, too, in the future, vocational education and training in particular is in short supply that young adults who have often moved to Southern Finland for work find it difficult to get them back to the region, for example, and it is even more important that they be able to get them to the region in a sufficient way through the training. It can be thought that if there is sufficient training, then there will always be enough workers for businesses and jobs in the region, but then you can always move after work elsewhere. The current situation — the fact that we have a lack of education in Northern and Eastern Finland — is precisely preventing the development of equal regions, and we will have to tackle this development of industry and of working life more strongly in the future through education. Then the Port of Oulu has been discussed. This also relates specifically to this promotion of positive structural change. The port of Oulu serves not a small area but a very large area from Savo to Lapland, and Kainuu can be raised by large, significant employers, such as Transtech, Terrafame, a potentially future bioproduct plant designed for Kainuu, on the road to Oulu. They are very important, and The port of Oulu is very important, especially for large export companies in this region. This has been greatly praised that we are now genuinely able to increase this trade, as we are able to export products better in the future through Oulu and can employ more people. This investment is of great importance and we warmly welcome it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u139	Mr President! Of course, our section, the Section for Employment and the Economy, welcomes all the measures relating to additional employment and, in particular, to the employment of the unemployed. The aim of this model is to increase employment by encouraging the unemployed to become active and self-employed when it is proposed to add EUR 10 million. It is intended to enter into force at the beginning of 2018 and, of course, it involves this same question of principle, which was discussed a great deal earlier in another matter here, which is that it is intended to be implemented three months earlier than the law enters into force. There is therefore this position of principle and, of course, the section will assess the full impact of this and the risks involved. All measures, of course, which help the unemployed to find employment, are welcome. This bill will certainly increase the possibilities and will be used for the same measures as the other appropriations available under the heading, so there will be no change in the intended use. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues that must be carefully considered: is the inadequacy of appropriate services a disadvantage, and are there different possibilities for the model to be implemented across the country ready? As a result, there is real uncertainty about the employment impact of the model. But there is also an essential point here, namely that we must very carefully inform and inform the unemployed people in advance, because there is a risk that, when the law comes into force, so many will be disappointed that their money has suddenly been reduced because they have not taken part in these training or employment projects, which the law requires from October onwards. As I mentioned earlier, the summary is that if, during 65 days of unemployment benefit, the unemployed person has not worked for a week or participated in 5 days of employment services, he will lose one day of compensation per month, or 4.65% of unemployment benefit. In addition, this proposal includes a reduction in the period from 7 to 5 days. It is to be expected that, at the turn of the year, those who indicate that we are surprised, we have not heard anything about this, that this has not been informed, will become very much, and that this advance preparation and information and information must therefore be given very great attention that there will be no such accidental loss of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u140	Mr President! We must comment on this competitiveness pact and its importance for Finland's economic situation and the development of employment, which has also been highlighted in other speeches. When you look at and compare how labour costs have developed in Finland compared to our main competitors, I think it is very clear that these very drastic wage cuts, as agreed in the competitiveness agreement, were excessive. In other words, this alleged problem of price competitiveness in Finland would also have been remedied by continuing with a moderate wage increase, for example on a zero line, which would certainly also be different from what seems to be the case in the autumn of this year, so that many unions are also rightly prepared to demand compensation, for example, for these holiday allowance cuts. When labour costs in Finland have fallen by 2.7 per cent at the beginning of the year compared to what it was in the previous year, in our key competitors, such as Sweden and Germany, labour costs have increased by the same amount and the average trend in EU countries is plus 1.7 per cent. In other words, from this point of view too, this competitiveness pact was a wrong solution and a serious error of assessment from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u141	Mr President! Inspired by Mr Andersson, I would like to start this speech on the competitiveness pact. It has played a very good and important role in restoring the Finnish economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u144	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u163	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u176	Mr President! Many times it has been said that the reform is a big, historic one, and it is therefore important that this is followed up and then supported on the ground. This is a very good thing for us to be informed each year about how this is going to go on, but it would be important for us to be able to make changes if there is a need to do so. For example, these expensive and small sectors that have been raised, education for them: yes, there is a need for national guidance and, in particular, monitoring, so that it does not go badly to the Hunngo because of this reform. The positive thing about this is that customer orientation is increasing. It will increase with the student, but it will also serve companies better in the future. Even in the previous paragraphs, there has been a lot of talk about this need for reform and rapid response, and in a certain way this reform can do this, that is to say, the reform of vocational education and training will help meet the needs of these companies, and I actually hope that apprenticeship training will get this reform of vocational education and training at a new pace, when it is possible to tailor the elements of qualifications to the needs of the company and then implement them with an apprenticeship model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u177	Mr President! I would like to add to this personalisation that it is very good that the government added this reform of vocational education and training to the implementation of this reform for the next 15 plus 15 million years, i.e. 2018 and 2019. It was the Committee on Education that wanted to draw attention to the fact that this additional funding would be used in particular for the introduction of a personal competence development plan, including its digitisation, and that these scalable models and such a general basis could also be used in the whole of Finland, and that the national development work could be carried forward. In order to create the Finnish model of workplace learning, this funding is also intended to be used to take into account students who need special support. What is particularly important here, too, is this new training agreement, which therefore replaces this work-learning model, this earlier model, and it is particularly important to highlight it, as the committee's report pointed out, that in certain areas there is a challenge to the introduction of this training agreement, precisely in these areas, where expensive equipment is used, including in forestry machinery companies and the land-building sector. There is genuine concern as to whether, in practice, students can be taken in when production is interrupted. That is why we have just made this statement in committee, which referred to the need to follow closely that these
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u178	Mr President! I would like to speak again on this training agreement, which is such a new model for this vocational training. I can say that at the outset I had some reservations about this training agreement. In fact, in the long run, I have somehow accepted and become you with it. For I myself would have gone much, much more decisively, to develop apprenticeships, apprenticeships. The concept of this training agreement is now somewhat challenging and problematic. It is still a question of the organiser of education, that is to say, the institution of education, and the workplace, the company, concluding this training agreement on behalf of a young person, as it were. All the good results will now depend on how well and ambitiously this personal curriculum is drawn up with this young person. I believe that we want to do this as well as possible, and when it is handled at the workplace through a very good workplace instructor and committed people, the result can be very good. But what I have so much to worry about and what the committee did talk about openly, in depth and well, is that, now that it is possible that this training agreement could be a long one — in fact, we voted on it on a point-by-point basis, and we would have liked it to be six months — so that, in the context of workplace education, these vocational education, general education and subjects can be taught there. This is an important and important issue. I do not want to raise this postgraduate qualification here to any base, because I also believe that a good vocational qualification is the starting point of everything, and then if a young person wants to develop his/her own professional skills later in working life, he/she has the opportunity to complete a special vocational qualification and get a kind of such a special professional and female position and status. But perhaps with this speech I should like to reassure myself. Let us now monitor very closely the introduction of this training agreement. After all, many experts have suggested that the whole title of an education contract should be dropped, since it is just a question of learning at work, and that it is just a question of learning at work. But of course there may be grounds to think that it is as if this sort of a certain formal-administrative entity. Mr President! I thought I'd be this brief this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u179	Mr President! As far as apprenticeship training is concerned, it is quite the way it is now being developed and put in a better position. First of all, the unit cost of an apprenticeship comes to the same level as its traditional educational institution. It is a really big change if you think that in the past there has been a clear incentive to train that young person in precisely the traditional way, almost half the money has been paid for it. Now you get the same amount of money for it in the new system, whether you train a young person with an apprenticeship or in traditional educational institutions. It's a big change and a major development. And then I would also see this training agreement as a major step towards the development of apprenticeship training. After all, it is intended to build a smooth path and a transition from an education contract to apprenticeship, which is already an apprenticeship. First a little more familiar working life and then an apprenticeship. President! What I wanted to say in conclusion, at the end of this good debate, was that there are a lot of things that will come back to whether we believe in this reform: do we assume that there will certainly be no success, even work to ensure that we do not succeed, or do we go to work to make it work? It's a huge exercise, isn't it? We can talk about education, which is a very big issue, about vocational education and training. It will require changes, changes in the way we think, we politicians, students, teachers, education providers, the Ministry. We are in front of a new one, and above all, we must believe in our young ones. If we believe in our young people, I am sure that this reform will succeed. Let's go work together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u180	Mr President! I cannot help but commenting on Mr Puumala's speech, because it was as if between the lines there were some kind of criticism of the opposition. After all, we are all committed to this and we have all agreed that it is extremely good that vocational training is being developed and that we attach great importance to vocational education and training in general and we hope that this reform will succeed in the best possible way, and it has been mentioned on many occasions, both in committee and in this House. But it is also appropriate — and I think it is part of the development work that is being done — to raise concerns about this reform, about certain areas of pain, such as this particular amount of local education or the amount of guidance, about the details of the training agreement and, above all, about the relationship between cutting funding and this reform and how it will be reflected in the daily lives of the educational institutions, because it is also the case that teachers and students and many other experts who work on a daily basis with vocational training are all raising these same concerns. I think it is absolutely necessary that this reform should then be followed up in the future and that there is also a willingness among the government parties to change this financing model and to increase this share of basic funding. The fact that it was so clearly included in the statements made by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy suggests that, even within the government parties, we are aware of the problems associated with this solution that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u181	Mr President! Mr Puumala spoke constructively, in which Mr Andersson drew attention to where the minor shortcomings were. It is indeed this element of basic funding. The last time I had a discussion today with a representative of an educational institution who specifically educates adults and young people in working life, he has drawn attention to the fact that this possibility of providing local education within the framework of the education agreement will simply not succeed. He was deeply saddened by the way in which this can be done ahead of the idea that it would be possible to learn at work when we cut money from the very side where those resources should be available, that these training agreements might be possible. But now that there is a minister present, one wish must be made on the forestry machine side and on the machinery side: that we can also consider in the ministry the side which is responsible for the sector in which we young people can take up the profession there on the forestry machine side. We have fathers and mothers taking their young people to work where, at 16 years of age, young people have the right to use excavators and forestry machines, but they do not have the right to take that device to the workplace, but they must first, with the help of fathers and mothers, take those machines and equipment there. Could we really not make a real effort in the EU so that an 18-year-old can take that machine at work to the workplace?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u182	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u183	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! There is yet another citizens' initiative on the table, and I think it is very welcome. I myself have made some proposals on this same issue in Parliament in the past, and they have not yet led to the desired outcome, and I welcome the fact that active citizens will take action when the resources of our parliamentarians are not enough. Finland moves to summer time on the last Sunday of March and leaves summer time on the last Sunday of October. When Finland introduced summer time for the second time in 1981, it was justified by energy saving when sunlight was sufficient for the later and the preservation of the time difference with our main trading partners. Today, however, working life operates on almost 24/7 and so-called agency working time no longer plays a major role in our digitalized global information society and in the world. A few years ago, our time gap with Russia grew to two hours, when, under normal circumstances, our important neighbour and trading partner introduced summer time permanently. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, moving to summer time also disturbs sleep by making it intermittent and lighter, while at the same time affecting the level of alertness and the performance of tasks. In fact, dream researchers believe that moving watches complicates the rhythms of the population to such an extent that the benefits of moving to summer time are not worth it. Interferences due to the shift of watches are observed most easily in busy and demanding work and also cause physical and mental symptoms. Studies have found, for example, that even the rate of myocardial infarction increases every spring and autumn just at the time of the clock shift. The shift of watches also causes much effort and confusion, and it also puts a strain on society and the individual. The transition to summer time is often also a problem for those working with animals, especially in the agricultural sector. Animals generally do not embrace summer time, even if the surrounding society changes its pace of life. There is an attempt to change the rhythm of farm animals on farms, but even so, the change in time can be too much of a burden. Animals used to certain feeding and dairy schedules suffer from the transition to summer time, and the change can be seen, for example, as a decrease in milk yield and an increase in stress levels. Summer time is justified by its benefits, but in reality these benefits have not been scientifically proven. Once again, there is research evidence that moving the clocks to summer time is only harmful. A few years ago, Professor Timo Partonen wrote the book More Sleep. In this he said that we should give up summer time, but in addition to that we should change the time zone to Central Europe, that is to say, permanently moving clocks back in an hour. At the moment, we are on the west side of our time zone, but if we moved to Central Europe in accordance with this Partose proposal, we would be on the east side of our time zone, which is ideal for health. Early morning light would make it easier for us to wake up and so forth. It would also affect the polar symptoms, and there are fewer people on the west side of this time zone. The transition to summer time is therefore an error transfer of up to two hours from the point of view of health. At the end of March Partose's words will be committed an official crime against sleep when clocks due to summer time are moved forward an hour. So the dream's fading. According to the studies, it is brittle for up to a week or weeks, and as a result the working power is reduced and so away. Studies also show that the transfer of time increases the risk of accidents and even heart attacks and may exacerbate mental disorders. Mr President! I personally hope that Parliament will take a positive stance on this citizens' initiative, knowing that this is coming from the EU directive, but still giving our minister, who is here, a strong back-up and support for him and the government of our country to take action to amend this directive in the European Union so that it can bring about a change. I personally believe that there is broad support for this in Europe, and I personally hope that the committee will also consider this change of time zone. In many respects, this would also be a sensible alternative to our competitive situation. I would also like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative and all the signatories. The people of Finland will once again show their strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u184	Mr President! We are dealing with the citizens' initiative. A total of 18 of them have been delivered here to Parliament, and this alone proves that the citizens' initiative is important and people have taken it as one of the channels for influence. It alone is an important issue in a democratic society where we want people to be involved in political decision-making. This is one way to get things on the agenda and on. A total of 624 citizens' initiatives have been taken, of which 18 have exceeded this limit of 50,000. Now for this initiative under discussion: This is one of the standard questions that comes up against the election machine, and I have always replied that I am in favour of stopping the clock shift. Now we are in this situation that the proposal is in the citizens' initiative — that is to say, it is not a specific initiative, but a proposal for the drafting of legislation. As Mr Heinonen said, this is not just a matter of Finland; it is a matter of the EU directive. But, of course, here in Parliament we can take a stand and oblige our own negotiators to move in the direction of change in the EU. In Finland, summer time has been used since 81 and experience has also been gained during the war years. There are also experiences from other countries, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, where summer time was introduced during World War I in a tight war economy. The aim was to achieve savings, mainly energy-related objectives. The results have been slim. According to what I myself have read, these results are quite contradictory and, if anything has been saved, they are quite thin with results, and then the disadvantages are difficult to measure. There was mention of sleep rhythm: The biological rhythm is disturbed for a while, some for a longer time, some for a shorter time. This may have an impact on road safety in the event of reduced driving vitality. Safety at work can have its own effects, and the agricultural and animal perspective was also well highlighted here. The transfer also entails hidden costs, which are indeed difficult to measure. There are several watches in every household, and these watches are now being sunk into the most amazing devices, and I must then move them so that there will be no mistakes — sometimes I wonder whether it is absolutely necessary to put a watch on every device when it has no effect on the operation of the device itself. Timetable changes will have to be made in public transport and, of course, when timetables are cut off and trains stand at night for an hour and so away, indirect costs and direct costs will also be incurred. In Finland as such, it doesn't matter how the clocks are moved in midwinter, it's dark anyway. One month in spring and one month in autumn is the time for more light from the afternoon. Then, as Mr President said, this will be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications, which will then, at its discretion, listen to experts. It may also be useful for the committee to consider the possibility of asking another committee for an opinion. It concerns the Committee on Social Affairs and Health from the point of view of health, the Committee on the Environment from the point of view of the environment and energy issues, and, of course, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities from the point of view of working life, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry should like to say something about the agricultural sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u185	Mr President! This shift of clocks is such a thing that many of us in this House will certainly get quite a feedback rush, I would even say an angry feedback rush whenever it is time to move the clocks. I agree with the estimates that have been made here in the past that this shift of clocks both in summer and in winter has major social implications. The biggest of them is this public health impact, of which several researchers, sleep researchers and others, have made estimates, saying that this causes serious harm to people's alertness, working life, mental well-being and also physical well-being whenever it happens and the time is right. It is also true that the pace of work in society has changed. Less is the case, as it were, at that time of day or at that bright time. In the past, when the majority or a large proportion of Finns made a living in the agricultural industry, of course, the daily rhythm was different, but now the situation has changed and in working life, too, the rhythm and dependence of work on the hours of the day has changed as the information work has increased. One aspect is families with children and the survival of families with children. As the father of a family with children, I remember that baby thing very recently. In baby families, this shift of the watch is a problem. A small child does not easily change its own daily rhythm. Especially when the situation is that, as in many families it is that night is a bit difficult, sleeping is a child, a small baby, difficult, so when this kind of situation comes, that clocks have to be moved, and because of the work of parents you have to move in the rhythm then, so it can cause those sleep problems, the baby’s sleep rhythm gets confused even worse, and then it weakens the ability to cope, which often in the families of young children, in the families of babies, is already a hard test. I believe that this is a point of view that should also be made here. This aspect of the agricultural industry was also raised earlier in the debate. This applies above all to milk production and dairy herds, where, as has already been mentioned here, it is always difficult to move animals into this new rhythm. When I myself once worked as an agricultural surveyor, I had to deal with this problem a few times when I had to change the animal rhythm gradually. Yes, it also has negative effects on milk production, animal production and welfare. I understand that farmers were very keen to see the idea of this citizens' initiative through and to implement the changes that it has proposed. It is hard to imagine that very many Finns would object to this move away from summer time or this move away from clocks. I myself strongly support this idea of a citizens' initiative. When I checked the Citizens' Initiative Service for this initiative, it had been signed by its 703,93 Finns, which, in my opinion, is quite a strong basis for taking this forward. Of course, we are dependent on what solutions are being made in the European Union, and Finland should have a strong influence to bring about a change to this directive, which regulates it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u186	Mr President! The citizens' initiative now under discussion wants to stop moving the clocks to summer time. I think the initiative is a good one and a good one. In April last year, I myself took the initiative to repeal the Government decree on summer time. On the basis of several studies, the current summer-winter variation has significant, as well as economic, effects. There are long-term fatigue and health risks as a result of disruption of human biological rhythm. Cardiovascular health and learning problems and negative impacts on the challenges of life and everyday life and working life are increasing. Of course, these learning difficulties are related to school, and since the transition to summer time, there have been reports of fatigue and restlessness among students in schools. For example, studies have found that when you move on to summer time, we lose one hour of the day and less sleep, while at the same time disrupting your inner clock. It is especially synchronized by light and its variation. The internal clock is a complex system involving many different factors. The area in the hypothalamus of the brain acts as a central clock that coordinates the entire clock system. The internal clock affects many physiological factors, such as hormone production and heat control, mood and the functioning of the immune system. In fact, this is so serious that you could say that moving watches can kill you. The disturbance of the internal clock is also linked specifically to the increase in mortality. The shift of the clocks may trigger factors that cause an attack only a few days later. Infarct risk increases by approximately 15% on the day after transfer. Patients with cancer were 25 percent more likely to have a stroke after the clocks were moved than during the rest of the period. In addition, a 20% increase in risk was observed in those over 60 years of age. The abolition of summer and winter time would also save working time and money, as the transition to summer time entails a wide range of planning and overtime costs. As a result of the fall in the working environment, the risks of operating and traffic accidents in machinery are increasing, as has been said here in previous speeches. These agricultural problems have also been identified in previous speeches. Governments in different countries have often justified summer time as an energy saving measure. However, studies in Finland have shown that the transition to summer time has not led to a visible reduction in energy consumption. In the north, our long summer days naturally reduce the need for lighting. In summer and winter time, it has also been thought of synchronizing daylight according to the working day. With regard to the equivalence of working time and summer time, what can then be achieved by the time of working day and summer time, when transitions to summer and winter time pose serious health risks and costly special arrangements, such as lack of timetables. The transition to summer time is not used at all, for example, in Iceland, Russia, India and China. In addition, in several countries, such as the United States, Canada and Australia, states and provinces can independently decide whether to use summer time. Mr President! I warmly support the citizens' initiative to stop changing the clocks during the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u187	Mr President! I must, however, thank the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, Mr Turuse. Cleared out the workshop. That is why I can manage with these little notes now, but first of all I would like to comment on Mr Heinonen's idea of a time zone perspective. I cannot agree with the fact that we working people would be without daylight at the point where the sun would shine in the morning and we would be left without that after-work sunlight for a long time. In that sense, I would like us workers to enjoy the sun when it is shining in this country. In my opinion, these health problems are more easily borne out by the fact that it has been said in shift jobs that fast rotation is better than having long shift intervals, and this is a very long shift interval, that this change is so rare for us. As regards agriculture, both representatives Turunen and Heinonen made it very clear that we cannot, in a way, require some of us to change the clock when someone from outside demands it. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible for us to apply through notification for our own national possibility to regulate so that we decide here at national level, which is our chance to separate ourselves from this rhythm, in accordance with the citizens' bill, and to come to the point where we have only one period of time to follow. Trade is no longer done on the basis of time, it is done internationally on the Internet, and the trade goes with traders, not according to winter and summer times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u188	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Heino for his good and wide-ranging speech, which highlighted many facts and factors behind this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u191	Mr President! Good speeches have been heard today and everyone has agreed. We have to give up summer time. Not much of these things again, which have been raised in these good speeches, but the objective of this citizens' initiative itself is that clock movements should be abandoned and that the so-called normal time should be used only in the future. I believe that this is an important and necessary change, even if Finland is bound by the European Commission's summer time directive. After all, this directive has sought to harmonise the practices of the different EU countries in the summer period for logistical reasons in favour of the internal market. In Europe, the transition started with Britain and Germany, and Finland moved permanently to the summer time in 81. I sincerely hope that at some point we will return, which is, in my opinion, the right time to find out how to return to the so-called normal time in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u192	Mr President! A hundred years ago, the transfer of summer - time wisdom was certainly a big innovation in saving energy. That matter of saving energy has already passed, it no longer applies, and I doubt without reading the studies that this will be of little use and the overall effects will then be small. Of course, I understand that staying in a uniform rhythm as an EU citizen, but if I think about myself and the feedback I get, this is a nuisance for Finns, all in all, twice a year. I am very much in favour of this initiative and I hope that this initiative will now be taken seriously and examined in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u193	Mr President! I have never said yet, but now I say: where is the EU, where is the problem? That is probably where this solution will be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u196	Mr Puumala and Mr Turunen have spoken, and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u197	Mr President! As has been shown here, there is strong support in the centre, and I have noticed, in many other parties, for this. I myself am one of those people who support that initiative. I don't know if this is the most important thing in the world or the most important thing in Finland, but it's a real daily life for many Finns, and every time we come to these dates, we wake up again and again. I also think that at the end of the EU it has been possible to open and solve larger solid knots, quite tight-tipped, and even larger knots set at the end of Finland, i.e. perhaps with common sense this knot could be opened. This does not need to become something that everyone is in favour of, but which does not go anywhere. Against this background, I would also like to ask the Minister, whom I also thank, that you are still here with great effort, how you think about this process. What would be realism in that, if and hopefully when Parliament were to vote in favour of this initiative, how could that move forward at the end of the EU? How would you see that path?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u198	Mr President! Of course, it has come to the conclusion that there is a directive behind it, but I would like to ask what the hell is going on. I think it is important enough that this can be taken forward in our Parliament and dealt with in the EU in such a way that Finland can move at one time. There is no single time in Europe. We within Europe have time zones in any case, and we do not get the same time in Europe. In this context, too, Finland could stay in one time so that this shift of clocks, which really has health problems, has significant health problems, should be eliminated. This is where Mr Puumala said that perhaps this is not one of the most important things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u201	Ladies and gentlemen! I have already promised to speak to the Minister, but when Mr Hoskonen came to the Chamber, I will now give him the floor and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u202	Thank you, Mr President. The thing is that this initiative to put an end to summer time in this country is justified in itself, but, as we have heard during this debate, these problems of EU commitments, which I am sure will not be affected quite so simply by this initiative, because this directive has been mentioned there and all the European countries have committed themselves to it. In my opinion, summer time would have to be thrown into a junkyard. Personally, my body has fully adapted to summer and winter times, just the same and the same time, there is no problem with that, but I know that the problem is that many people have a mental threshold when they move the clock that they feel different kinds of pain. As far as I know, Russia, our eastern neighbour, does not exist in this time, they live in it all the time. I respect their right to self-determination in that they have kept to their own course. I remember that when Finland moved to the new millennium in 2000, there was a terrible fear in the computer world that the whole world would lose out on the fact that when the new millennium began, there would be different time problems with computers. There was no problem. One hour there or here is not a problem, but in my opinion, when we live in the present and there are no big arguments, it would be necessary for me to put an end to this whole summertime system and come back to good, at the same time and help those people who have this big problem. I know about my own circle of acquaintances, half a dozen who are terrified of this shift of class. But if this is not progressing in the European Union... — I only heard from Mr Heinonen, and I was actually in my office falling off the bench when this good fellow Member, Mr Heinonen, suspected that 'the EU, where the problem was'. Seriously, I was gonna fall off the bench, but I'm glad it didn't come to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u203	And now the Minister has the floor. — — — — I'm wondering if you can move the clock in maximum five minutes from the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u204	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you for this debate. This is a citizens' initiative, which has received 70,000 declarations of support, and in that respect I would also like to respect the one-sided debate on the citizens' initiative that has taken place in this Chamber. The effects of summer time have been examined on several occasions, and the European Commission has last carried out studies in 2014. So far, the Commission has seen the benefits of summer time outweigh the disadvantages. This current summer time directive is a 2001 directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on summer time provisions, and this has then been provided for in Finland by a Government decree. In fact, the abolition of summer time would require a proposal from the European Commission to repeal the summer time directive, and in fact, at the end of 2016, the European Commission has promised the European Parliament a proposal to amend and possibly repeal the summer time directive in 2017. Personally, I think that it would be most effective for us to influence this, both through Parliament and through our MEPs, and by the fact that Finland is active in the direction of the Commission by the Government, so that the Commission will then also pass on this proposal. I think that by notification that we would separate from this directive we will not be able to move forward very easily. On the other hand, if we were to go directly against the directive, then we need the agreement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Sectors, the Government and the large committee that we are taking action against such a directive and possible sanctions for it. I would, therefore, prefer to see Parliament give a very unanimous vote to the Government. Personally, I am prepared and committed to play an active role in bringing this matter forward through the Commission. Let us start by trying to get the Commission to present to Parliament a proposal to repeal the summer time directive. In fact, I would now like the committee to make a report on this, to which Parliament will then take a stand and, as Mr Heinonen has said, give me a strong backstop to take an active part in this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u205	Mr President! I do not believe that notification is an anti-Directive process. Well, maybe this is where we're on different lines. It is precisely the fact that Finland is going to apply for a certain degree of self-justification at national level, and I do not consider notification as, if I have understood it, the Minister said that it is the opposite process and the attack on the directives, but it is the process in which we seek our own legitimacy for our own actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u206	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Let me make it quite clear that if the Parliament now responds positively to this citizens' initiative and the Minister is committed to taking forward the parliamentary decision in that Europe either by this method, the notificate, or by making a proposal for the abolition of the summer time directive, then the means will surely be free for the Minister, when this is the right outcome, and then the Minister will have the will to comply with Parliament's will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u207	And the Minister would like to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u208	Thank you, Speaker! I'm sorry if I expressed myself vaguely. The intention was to say that the best thing would be for the Commission to make a proposal to Parliament to abolish summer time. If Finland were to go into a notification, we would consider it unlikely that we would succeed, leaving us with an independent separation from the directive, which would then also require that we take those sanctions into account in that respect. This may have been more of a response to Mr Turuse's idea, to the point of view that is all right. But our assessment in the Ministry has been that notification is unlikely to succeed in this respect. It would affect so many aspects, which are then linked to the common concept of time within the EU in many different areas, whether we talk about air transport or anything else, and the EU would probably not give us this opportunity by notification simply to break away from this. This was mainly my idea that these are the three approaches. But as Mr Turunen said,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u209	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u210	Mr President! The aim of this bill is to facilitate the pre-trial investigation of the police and thus to reduce crime. Reducing crime is a common goal for all of us in this House. The amendment of the law is considered particularly important in the police organisation and has been signed by all MPs with police background. In 2016, a total of 1227 home invasions of leisure accommodation were reported to the police. According to the statistics, only less than a quarter of the cabin burglaries survive. Often there are no property in the cottages that would be easy to trace. Most of the time, outboard engines, electronics and small machines are stolen. According to the police, the value of the property taken from the cottages is often not high, but repairing the tracks can cost a lot of money. Many times after the break-in, you have to change the exterior doors or windows or clean the apartment after the fire extinguisher, for example. The preliminary investigation authority often has summer cottage break-ins under investigation in such a way that the break-ins are very close to each other, both in time and geographically. For example, in area A, about 500 metres apart, five summer cottages have been broken into and five kilometres away in area B within a radius of two hundred meters into three cottages and so on. The method of breaking and entering is similar, and property has been stolen from each apartment. Similar shoe prints have also been recorded at each work site, so it is thought that they are likely to be the same. When such a series of thefts is investigated, there is a problem that it is not possible to use the means of telecommunications, i.e. the acquisition of base station data or the monitoring of telecommunications, because there are several individual basic forms of theft which do not satisfy the characteristics of a serious theft, which would allow the use of means of telecommunications to be used. At present, a number of thefts by the same person can be treated on the basis of an overall assessment as a theft in the case of a so-called professional purpose of profit. In the same way, a number of so-called professional thefts by the same person should be treated as aggravated theft. According to the law, aggravated theft includes the planning, repetition and continuation of acts, the purpose of profit and the major financial damage caused by crimes. In the case of theft of a dwelling which has been occupied on the basis of Article 27(1)(5) of the Criminal Code, the case is usually dealt with as a serious theft if the act has been committed against an occupied dwelling, i.e. a detached house, an apartment building and so on. In the case-law, this refers to housing intended for permanent residence. In the case of summer dwellings, the case law is not so clear, even though it is the same from the point of view of the plaintiff and the violation of his rights. It is therefore justified to change the legal text to "home for residential use". The value or amount of the assets transferred is not relevant for the qualification of the act. Even in a residential dwelling, a resident does not have to be at home during the break-in. Serial offences which can be demonstrated or presumed to have been committed and planned by the same perpetrator on the basis of the manner, place or time of the offence or other investigation may have a significant criminal benefit and harm to the plaintiff. Mr President! Since 2007, property offences committed by foreigners have increased sharply since the entry into force of the Schengen Agreement. This could be the role of the perpetrators in organised crime in their own country. In addition to valuable property, the offences target ordinary grocery goods of merchants whose value is not significant in individual offences, but it can be assumed that the criminal benefit of the offender is considerable through the series of offences. Those guilty of such crimes have entered the country solely for the purpose of committing a crime, and it takes a few days for them to be present. The actions are very systematic and professional. These actions may be carried out by or involve more than one person, and there are clear roles between the perpetrators: the scout, the deceiver, the asset snatcher, the impounder, and so on. In the situations described above, the interest in solving criminal offences must be greater and the pre-trial investigation authorities should therefore have access to justified and appropriate means of detection, such as access to base station data or telecommunications surveillance information on the use of telecommunications subscriptions or telecommunications terminal equipment by the offenders. This would be in the interests of all honest citizens. In particular, following the reform of the law on coercive measures that entered into force on 1 January 2014, the means of pre-trial investigation authorities have narrowed in the investigation of serial offences. The law on coercive measures in force reduced the usefulness of telecommunications in pre-trial and prosecution proceedings. The law on coercive measures introduced as a new act the so-called processing of extra information, i.e. the law on coercive measures. and restrictions on the use of additional information, the law on coercive measures Telecommunications surveillance data obtained in the investigation of aggravated theft cannot be used as evidence in the same series of offences in the pre-trial investigation of basic theft offences committed by the same perpetrator in the same area and committed at the same time as the offence. Enabling the use of base station data and telecommunications surveillance data improves the ability of pre-trial investigation authorities to investigate basic forms of theft offences in criminal series, where offences are rightly planned and repeated and have a so-called professional character and a purpose for profit. In general, in this series of thefts, the locations are in quiet areas, so it would be very possible to find out, inter alia, on the basis of base station data. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt the following bill, the Act amending Chapter 28, Section 2 of the Criminal Code. In the future, aggravated theft would have been defined as follows: "If in theft 1) the subject of theft is a highly valuable asset; (2) The seizure of an offence causes a particularly serious harm to the victim in view of his or her circumstances; 3) the offender exploits the helpless or distressed condition of the victim of the crime; (4) the offender or accomplice is equipped for carrying out the offence with a firearm, explosives or any other dangerous instrument of this nature; 5) the offender breaks into an apartment intended for housing; or 6) Expropriation is repeated, planned and the pursuit of significant economic benefits and theft as a whole is also gross, the offender must be sentenced to imprisonment for aggravated theft for at least four months and not more than four years." The company must be punished.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u211	Mr President! Mr Kulmala has made an excellent legislative initiative and I warmly support its adoption. I hope that this initiative by Mrs Kulmala will now be successful in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I believe that her colleague, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the police professional, Mr Tolvanen, can take this matter seriously and take this initiative forward. It is a strange situation that we in Finland today have criminals who break into the law for the purpose of profit, in a way protecting the possibility that such thefts cannot then be investigated by all reasonable, legal means available. And what is the guarantee of access to telecommunications identification data — as Mrs Kulmala well described in her initiative and as she has just described this situation well — then not to be used? It is a very strange situation that a criminal who is certainly in violation of the law and, in my opinion, in a gross manner — tampering with another’s property is always such an act — should be protected by the article of the law and that his movement or break-in in that area cannot be investigated by all the technical means available. It is also a little personal for the signatory, when our summer cottage was once broken into and destroyed. Unfortunately, the investigation did not lead to a final result, never knowing who it was. The only comfort was that the insurance was up-to-date and the damage was limited to the responsibility of all the insurances. But from experience I can tell you that when someone else’s property is tampered with, the home is invaded, even though it is a summer cottage — a very dear and important one for the whole family — that feeling of insecurity and that feeling of immunity is so shocking that I very much hope that the excellent bill made by Mrs Kulmala will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-28-ps-78.u212	Mr President! Indeed, the bill of amendment of Chapter 28, Section 2 of the Criminal Code, by Mrs Kulmala, seems reasonable and in the same way that there is a need for it. I hope, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, that we will be able to contribute to this. Here's a short one.
