ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to inform you that Mr Peter Katjavivi and his party, the President of the Namibian Parliament, have arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u3	Now we move on to Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u4	Congressman Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u5	Mr President! Imagine a situation where you sense the smell of your home strongly, recognize a familiar voice, and dare to move from your room to the living room with others. It's a friendship that brings security to your life. It's easier when you know where you are. This is the everyday reality of a person with severe disabilities at its best. At its worst, a disabled person meets new nurses and a new living environment, even every two years due to competitive tendering, only because we, the non-disabled people, say so. I think home belongs to everyone. Prime Minister, do you and your government agree: does a disabled person in Finland also have the right to a permanent home?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u6	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, the Competition Act, and the Act on the same procurement, expressly allows that every municipality can make a judgment which is in the best interests of a disabled person. If, for example, housing is subject to frequent competition, it is clear that if you have to change the familiar and safe environment quickly — and especially when the familiarity and safety of a disabled person is important — it is not right. I am sure that the Minister responsible for this procurement law, Mr Lindström, will be better able to explain it, but this is my view that current legislation will allow the municipalities exactly what you have proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u7	Mr President! Yes, to put it simply, this is entirely a matter of the choice made by the contracting entity, in other words, in Finnish, by the municipality. The provision of services for disabled persons is not subject to the Procurement Act if the municipality allows the end-user to choose a suitable service provider. In such a case, the municipality does not exercise any discretion and it is not a matter of public procurement. Well, if the municipality wants to make a decision about who is allowed to provide services for disabled people and chooses the service provider it considers most appropriate, then it is a matter of public procurement, and if the municipality really chooses this option, the municipality cannot choose a friend as a service provider, but must be competitive according to the procurement law. It is not in the interest of anyone, not even a disabled person, to be able to choose a service provider without competitive tendering, and in this respect it is not even possible to derogate from the regulation of the directive at national level. That is what I have been told by our officials.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u8	Now is the opportunity to ask for further questions by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u9	Mr President! Reality is much more cruel than what you're telling me now or you want to admit. For example, Petteri, a young man from Rovaniemi, has been fighting with his family for years to live in a group home where he moved from his childhood home. Petteri’s story tells us that in reality it is one thing to compete for copy papers than for a person’s entire life. Prime Minister, last night I had a wish. I read an interview where you brought up the competition for housing services for people with disabilities. Your heart has been touched by the matter of the disabled. Even last Christmas, all representatives of the government parties, including the Prime Minister, voted in favour of the idea that the home of people with disabilities should be competitive. Prime Minister, was the decision made at Christmas right?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u10	Mr President! Indeed, as I said just now, neither I nor the government will, of course, belittle the cause or the space of the disabled. Today, I have put an order on our official machinery that all municipalities should be given wire instructions once again on how to use this procurement law. It's the first step. The second measure is that we, together with the minister responsible for the STM, will launch a debate on this issue and once again we will take a look at what can be done about it. We do not underestimate this problem. And yesterday's show was touching.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u11	Mr President! The citizens' initiative on this issue has now had more than 50,000 full names, which means that it is now coming to Parliament, and we Social Democrats support the idea of a citizens' initiative. Competition also applies to people with memory disorders, who often have the same basic security in their lives as they do in their permanent relationships and familiar surroundings. How would we feel if we were told that we now have to move when living elsewhere is cheaper? I don't think any of us would agree to this. Why is this still possible for people with disabilities and memory disorders, even though the consequences may be very dramatic? Let me ask you again: what is the government going to do here and now to deal with this problem, because at the very least many municipalities are running these tendering systems?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u12	Mr President! As I said earlier: here and now, today, a letter has already been written to the municipalities, because this issue is also being resolved in the municipalities. The practices of municipalities are very varied. Some people know how to use the Procurement Act, some don't. Here is the first thing: we have to make them the same, so that everyone does the same thing. The Procurement Act, as I said, does not oblige contracting entities to carry out social and health services, including services for the elderly and the disabled, as public procurement. These services can alternatively be carried out on the basis of the customer's freedom of choice, and when this was discussed in connection with the presentation of the procurement law, this so-called personal budgeting was raised. And that would be the thing that could take this issue forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u13	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the Finns of Finland took a legislative initiative and made disability councils legal. Minister, then the Minister of Local Government, Paula Risikko, you were taking it forward, thank you for that. The elderly councils are also statutory at the moment. I would like to ask about this work of disability councils and also about the Council for the Elderly. They're not legal. They're not legal. In the future, how will these issues also be addressed at the heart of the wars, so that the voices of the disability councils and the elderly councils are heard — that is, the people whose affairs are dealt with in the municipalities there? Both are not decision-making bodies, but the content is very important, and it is also very important that there are representatives of people with disabilities and the elderly, not just organisations or politicians, but that there should be the people to whom we are talking. On that point, I would like to ask how these two very important and important Councils will also remain at the centre of the war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u14	Mr President! Mr Juvonen raised a very important issue, especially now that new municipal councils have started here. My message as Minister of Local Government is that this should now be taken into account in every municipality, and indeed that there are the elderly councils separately and the disability councils separately, and then the youth councils are also involved in many others. So now is a good place to fix it. As far as the future provinces are concerned, according to the draft law of the county law, which is being discussed here, there is the same recommendation and legally, you could go there too. But I would say so when there are a lot of municipal decision-makers here too, that you should also see to it that there are not only politicians there, but organisations and special groups in particular have a better voice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u15	Mr President! Fragmentation and marketisation of services are most likely to undermine the services of the people most in need of these services. Therefore, a citizens' initiative to abolish the necessary aid and support for people with disabilities is necessary and appropriate. I therefore ask the minister concerned: how does the government intend to respond to genuine concerns about people's everyday lives and to ensure the long-term and good care of those most in need?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u16	Mr President! The subject we are discussing here is very important. We talk in many ways about those members of society whose voice does not carry far. That is why it is important that this debate should also take place here. It is good to remember that Minister Lindström's procurement law is in practice a code of conduct. It is therefore a way of obtaining the services to which disabled people are entitled on the basis of their situation in life or illness, and that right stems from the disability service law that we are currently reforming. In that, Mr Aalto, you are quite right that the Finnish municipalities are responsible for these services for the time being. Since 20 C.E., they are on the shoulders of the provinces. A large proportion of social services, including these housing services, are, in fact, already carried out by private service providers in municipalities. They should be subject to the same rules, and human rights also relate to the actual law, not exactly where a person lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u17	Mr President! Finland is currently violating both the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and our fundamental values. The tendering of disabled people's lifelong services has led to very inhumane situations, as Mr Salonen has said here. People have been deprived of their homes, they have not been consulted in decisions about themselves, the basic elements of their lives have been scrapped. This certainly cannot continue. The government ignores the whole issue by referring to the social welfare reform and, as a result, possible future personal budgeting, which may perhaps sometimes correct the situation. However, this is not enough for us. The rights of people with disabilities are not a commodity. I would ask you, Minister: has the government already begun to prepare the necessary changes to legislation in the social and health sectors and in other areas, so that we can ensure that services for disabled people are no longer organised through tendering procedures and that the human rights of people with disabilities will continue to be safeguarded?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u18	Mr President! Together with Mr Pekonen, we sat as members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when, in fact, almost all committees dealt with this procurement law, which is a code of conduct for all public purchases if it exceeds a certain amount. We had a well-founded debate on whether an exception could be made here, and, as Minister Lindström said, the assessment was based on an EU directive that regulates this procurement activity. I share Mr Pekonen's concerns about housing services and human rights for people with disabilities and others, such as the long-term sick, but it is good to remember that this law is quite recent. I have come to the conclusion that it has not yet been internalized in Finnish municipalities. Because it improved significantly. It is clear, for example, that the voice of the customer or resident must be taken into account when planning the acquisition, and it is required to indicate if the municipality or other customer uses only money as a criterion and not, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u19	Mr President! It is good to say here that when the Freedom of Choice Act comes into force,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u22	Mr President! I'll do my best. Mr Sarkomaa, the experienced representative, has already described this, the main features, quite rightly. It is, of course, right that in this respect we are talking about the freedom of choice law and its details as part of the social reform which will come into force in a few years' time, but before that, the application of the procurement law and the genuine understanding of what its new forms mean will be necessary for the municipalities to introduce. I am delighted by Minister Lindström that the municipalities are approaching. A personal budget is an account, as it were, for a customer or a user of services. It is an over-the-counter procedure for this procurement law, in which I think self-determination is achieved in an excellent way when the voice of the service user is heard. Whether the services were carried out through the Procurement Act, through a personal budget, the basis is always the assessment of the need for the service, which is carried out by social and health care professionals together with the disabled or his/her loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u23	Mr President! There is no escape from EU legislation here, as the government tried to do in the area of forced-to-carrying. Nor can this be transferred to the 2020s, as has now been explained through this personal account. These people are suffering at the moment, they are insecure about this, and that must be resolved here and now. Prime Minister, you have said in the Evening Sanomats on 11 October that you are prepared to consider at least the exclusion of some services for disabled people. What do you mean by that in practice? The EU will therefore not prevent this exclusion from competition. How are you going to resolve this now, Prime Minister Sipilä? From your government's side, this matter must be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u24	Mr President! I understand the concern and I also understand that people with disabilities need human and good services. It's obvious. As we have heard here, the procurement law or the legislation on social and health care does not at present put any obstacle to doing so, but in the practices of municipalities, these everyday examples exist in my own e-mail, no matter how many, clearly there are differences, and in every place this is not done in the best possible way. That is why Minister Lindström has now asked for the municipalities to be instructed in such a way that practices would be harmonised there. What we are doing in the context of the social and health reform, this personal budgeting, really brings to this question a solution, which will enable people to decide more about how that money is spent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u25	Mr President! If the municipality produces those disability services as its own business, then there is no need to compete. But instead, if you buy it on the market, you have to compete. This is the basic and basic rule. However, the government, when reforming that procurement law, did not use the highest possible limit values from the EU directive but decreased them. After all, we have the situation in Finland that we are the most competitive in Europe. In all public procurements, those criteria are absolutely essential. Otherwise, we are in a situation where the person who takes charge of the cheapest — go to the auction time. Now I would have asked the Minister how the municipalities are to be instructed so that we can obtain quality in these procurements. It has been said here that, in the face of the new law, municipalities may not really know what to do. Is there no reason to take people's needs seriously? We can't afford to go to auction time. We need criteria to ensure that people have a decent life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u26	Mr President! The representative is quite right, and that is precisely why today I have given an order that such a letter goes to the municipalities and such that it is wire, so that it certainly becomes clear what this is all about. Of these thresholds: the threshold for social services was indeed set at a little lower, i.e. EUR 400000, than the directive would have allowed, EUR 700000. Why? This sought transparency, public disclosure, and the best price-quality ratio. Entrepreneurs in the sector also considered the lower threshold to be important for transparency. However, the Procurement Act provided for particularly light and flexible rules for these services. Once again: If the municipality decides to outsource these services, it must organise competitive tendering. It is not possible to exclude these services from the scope of the Procurement Act. The Procurement Directive contains specific CPV codes which also list services for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u27	Next question, Mr Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u28	Mr President! The Government Programme promises that the Government will commission an independent study on the costs of immigration at the request of the Finns. The report was due to be completed according to the Ministry's website in the spring. On the Ministry’s website, you can find a table explaining what works are available to investigate the effects of immigration. Is the Minister of Social Affairs and Health pleased that your ministry has been able to find out in 2.5 years what studies there are? The decision-makers and officials should know who is in our country, what they are doing and what they are paid. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Health: what is the cost of completing the study, and what is your estimate of the annual cost of immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u29	Mr President! The questioner also referred to the right to know who is in the country. It is not solely a matter for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. For this report: Yes, the work has been under way in the Ministry, it has been during what has been done so far. And that is not the whole truth, Mr Hakkarainen, what they say there — that it has been clarified just what the studies have been carried out — but that the work has been done, and it will be completed there on time and will take the time to do what is needed now. But, yes, I promise you, it will be finished.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u30	There is now an opportunity to ask for answers to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u31	Mr President! We must be surprised at how the government is able to draw up an annual budget for the state, which is currently being discussed in Parliament, even though it is not able, despite the army of civil servants, to determine even the costs of immigration. This kind of waxing puts the entire budget in disbelief. Looking at the draft budget for 2018, you can see that in many areas the figure is very accurate. Housing tilts, the poor get poorer, and the rich get rich. Veterans aren't saved from the cutter either. At the same time, additional funding has been found even for illegal residents. Now tell us the Finns and the whole people whether you intend to address these shortcomings. If you're not going to, can you at least tell me honestly,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u32	Mr President! Indeed, the costs of immigration are very diverse, just as Mr Mattila said. Once it has been agreed that such an investigation will be carried out, it is really going on, and we have been going through that situation and that it is so difficult because there are so many factors. Now we have to remember that it was an exceptional situation in 2015, when we were in a situation where we had to act quickly — everyone understands it. We are now in a situation where we have managed to balance this situation, we have also managed to manage the costs of immigration through the guidance system and also to dismantle the agreements that have been reached at that stage with a great deal of need. Now they've been dismantled and this is normalizing. But it is quite clear that decisions had to be made there, not necessarily cost-effective, but emergency solutions. On the other hand, we are much more prepared for a possible next step.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u33	Mr President! There have recently been many cases where an asylum seeker has been employed during the process of residence permits. You can say that employment in the open market, if anything, shows that you have been integrated into Finland. However, the problem has become that some of these have received a negative residence permit decision, and I ask the minister concerned: could the legislation be amended so that, if they so wish, such a person who has been employed could flexibly move into the work-related immigration process from there to the asylum process?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u34	Mr President! These two things, these two different permits are separate permits, i.e. there is an asylum permit decision and then there is a work permit. If a person in the middle of seeking asylum is employed, he or she can also apply for that residence permit on the basis of work and these are treated as two separate persons. What is important, then, is that these two separate applications are synchronized and that it is possible to obtain such a work-related permit, whether the criteria are met, and there is no trickery simply to block the asylum application and then become the work-related one. It must always be ensured that it is a genuine job and that it is the real money that comes out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u35	Mr President! It is surprising, again, that the Finns of Peru speak of immigration. We are all really, really surprised, this obsession has not been seen. You've been on the board for two years. You have cut hugely from Finnish pensioners, students, the weak, now you have the nerve to talk about the cost of immigration. Immigrants are working long hours in this country, trying to build this country just as much as the Finns in Finland. This incomprehensible distinction should be brought to an end. In fact, I would like to turn the question around and ask the minister responsible: could we not rather talk about the benefits of immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u36	Mr President! I'd love to. In other words, immigration also has benefits. Finland also needs immigrants, for many reasons, for example because we also need employees, immigrants here as workers. And that is why this government has decided to draw up an immigration policy programme with a focus on work-related immigration. And specifically, Finland wants to be an open country where people can move just as they do in all other European countries. Labour immigration is perfectly reasonable and permissible, it only contains specified criteria that must be met. However, it is not the way in which work and any such fictitious agreements can be used to get a seat here. You have to have a real job, a real salary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u37	Mr President! When it comes to costs and integration, immigrants themselves have the main responsibility for integration, which is impossible without their own activity. On the other hand, the native population should show love for neighbor and acceptance for enterprising newcomers. No one wants to integrate into a country where they experience contempt or discrimination. This is our future party's Blue Future agenda, and I believe it corresponds to most of the Finnish views. But what causes human costs and loss of life and concerns ordinary Finns is terrorism. I would ask the minister concerned: what action has the government taken to address this threat, which is a key threat to immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u38	Mr President! It is quite true that we are also being pursued by people who have no good intentions. And that is why we must always look at everyone who comes here — for whatever reason he has announced that he is coming, even for a work-related reason — to see who is involved. That is why we have the Border Guard and various registers in place. Now you also asked us how to make sure. At the time when asylum is sought, we will see, for example, whether he has a criminal record or if there is anything else that could pose such a threat. Similarly, it is our job to consider, for example, the priority in the event of a return. At the moment, we have a so-called ‘TUPA’ function in the Central Criminal Police, that is to say, an action aimed at asylum seekers to determine whether or not this person is a potential threat to such a work of terrorism or this type of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u39	Värderade Talman! Då man ser på hur Finland håller på att utvecklas, så vet vi att den åldrande befolkningen blir större och vi lever längre. Det är i och för sig en bra sak, men vi vet också att vi behover arbetskraft i framtiden. Och auri har vi all orsak att se till att Finland ska vara ett attraktivt land att flytta till också i framtiden. Värderade Talman! Just nu har vi ett större antal papperslösa i vårt land än vi någonsin har haft tidigare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u40	Mr President! It is quite clear that when you talk about paperless people, you certainly mean those people who do not have paper to work here, but you must remember that not all of them are illegally present. If you are referring to the fact that there are persons who have not been granted asylum and have nevertheless remained here — you are probably referring to it — we have clearly instructed the municipalities that these children are entitled to education, for example. These children are also entitled to such emergency accommodation and this type of service, just as our constitution allows. The municipalities have been instructed to do this. Then I would ask you to note that at a time when such a decision on asylum is taken on children in general, the child’s best interests always take precedence, and the children and the family are the core unit. When it comes to return when it comes to return, we always go from the point of view of the child's interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u41	Mr President! It is surprising that the Greens consider it a bad thing that we are also talking about asylum seekers and the cost of immigration. It's not the first time. I think it is good that we are talking about many different things. However, this is a record of the government programme and we still did not really get an answer as to when it would come. It has been a long time, and I think this entry has already been made before this increase in immigration in the summer of 2015, so it has nothing to do with the migration crisis. I would still have asked if there were any new instructions. Minister Risikko, you said you were checking the criminal records from the arrivals, but was it not the case, for example, in this case in Turku, that this person was already in the process but was not aware of this conviction or suspicion in Germany and that there had been a failure to identify himself? What's the situation here? Do you have any new instructions? This is surprising.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u42	Mr President! After all, the simple fact is that every time a person comes here, of course, we will see if there is something behind it, for example, to see if he has a crime in the background or so. But this person in Turku was about the fact that he came with a different identity than what he really was and that he had no record of him. He had done something with some identity, but it did not appear in the register that we are looking at, and he had never applied for asylum, so he was not in the Eurodac register that is usually viewed whenever an asylum seeker becomes an asylum seeker. This is the problem: if a person adventures in European countries with different names, different identities, it is quite possible that a person will come and there will be no record of him even if he has done something under another name. This is what the European Union is now trying to do: to coordinate these information systems, so that we can identify, for example on the basis of fingerprints — or whatever they are developing —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u43	Next question, Congressman Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u44	Mr President! Finally, the day has come when the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance can thank the Prime Minister and agree with him. Prime Minister, you said publicly that zero is an unreasonable requirement in the autumn wage negotiations. The Left Alliance is in complete agreement. Fair wage increases are needed to compensate for wage reductions, longer working hours and holiday allowance cuts brought by wage-earning kiky, but they are also needed to safeguard domestic purchasing power and thus boost economic growth and employment. For us, wage increases have percentages, not tithes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u47	Mr President! The government is definitely not at that table. What I have communicated to that table from the government is that from there we have a joint kiky table that is still promoting local reconciliation at an advanced stage. We hope it will move forward. I have also sent a message to that table that, not the good development that is now in employment, that round would make a mess of us, but that we would stay on hold. I have also said in my opinion that yes, 0.0 sounds like a pretty bad solution in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u48	And now we have the opportunity to ask for further questions. — Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u49	Mr President! According to Statistics Finland's preliminary data, turnover in manufacturing and services will increase by nearly 10 per cent from one year ago. At the same time, the earnings of employees fell by 0.4 per cent from the third quarter of the year before. Mr President! Growth belongs to everyone. What measures does the government intend to take to ensure the implementation of this very broad-based objective in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u50	Mr President! As has been said many times in this Chamber, the main means of belonging to growth for all is that we will work together in every way possible to ensure a good development in employment. The fact that an unemployed person gets a job is the most important element in making growth better distributed to everyone. It also strengthens public finances, as has happened now. And that way we will also be able, through public finances, the state budget, the municipal budgets, to take care of those who are unable to take care of themselves, are not in employment and thus become involved in this growth. These are the key elements. I hope that this autumn labour market round, which will continue until the end of January, will also not take away the good elements that we now have in society and growth, because only then will this good employment development continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u51	Mr President! I was also pleased to hear the Prime Minister's statement on this that zero is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u55	Let's hold on to this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u56	Mr President! That auction is certainly not the source of the box, that is clear. As far as Sweden and Germany are concerned, two observations of it. Firstly, when compared with 2005, when the government started operating, it measured the cost-competitive advantage of around 15% in favour of Germany, slightly less in favour of Sweden. That is what we have now narrowed down well, and it is reflected in the fact that our exports are starting to pull, and exports when they do, it brings service industries with it. This is the key factor behind this good employment development. The second thing that separates us from Sweden and Germany is that there is much more agreement at job level, at local level. In this way, these jointly agreed percentages are not even comparable, since they will then be able to adapt to the situation of the company or the Community itself. This is the thing where:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u57	Mr President! The autumn labour market round is important for Finland’s economy and employment growth and for the tens of thousands of people who expect to enter the labour market with it. That's the point. People get to work. We have now reached the path of economic growth, and there is a chance that this year will not be the only one if we move on moderately. Labour market organisations still deserve praise for being able to make this competitive solution. At least I believe that, in this situation, they will also be able to assess what is the right level in these wage increases and in this labour market situation. The government is no party at that labour market table and does not belong there at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u58	Mr President! The government has kept its own promises and, in fact, a little early on, through tax reductions, then came against employees when employers have passed on payments to employees. It was a key element of this improvement in competitiveness, so-called internal devaluation. The social partners and all those involved still deserve thanks for having done so, and it is an important part of this development, where we are now, and an important part of this good employment development. It is now important that this autumn's patience is maintained and that things can be settled in the Finnish way, if that's all, then at least in the last minute, but we can still agree in such a way that the peace of work is maintained and that we can ensure this common good development, which has now been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u59	Mr President! First of all, I must say to Mr Zyskowicz that this is the party you represent, which has used to make direct offers to different professional groups. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u60	Mr President! I think that a more appropriate solution would be to make as much work as possible at the workplace, because that is where the situation is best known, i.e. local agreement would go as far as possible now as far as this autumn's round of wages is concerned. With regard to this purchasing power and the ability to pay, I believe and trust in this Finnish system that there will be the right balance in this autumn's negotiations when employers and employees negotiate with each other what is the margin of payment and the pressure on the workers' side will increase, improve, buy power. This is what it is all about, finding the balance, while also ensuring that Finnish work remains competitive in the world. In this way, exports will continue to pull and boost this growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u61	Mr President! With many solutions, Finland’s competitiveness has been restored, and, indeed, the ski is better off. The backs of Germany and Sweden are already visible, we are squeezing alongside and hopefully past. The economy is growing, unemployment is falling and government debt has been brought under control. On these labour market solutions in the autumn: It is good that Parliament is following them, but Parliament is not really a party to these matters. Parliament is not the head of the people's salaries, not even for the holiday money, this is a good thing to remember. But we must follow because we are dealing with solutions that are important to our success, and there are some worrying signs now in the air from that labour market field, and there have been some flashes of industrial battles. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u62	Mr President! I have continued to be confident in following this debate and I am confident that the solutions will come from there. After all, the government has already contributed to this in its budget proposal by ensuring that purchasing power is developed also through tax reductions, and this was the wish of all parties, including the employee side, that the government should come to this table before negotiations with a tax reduction proposal, and that is what we did. In this way we have also ensured the development of the purchasing power of the employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u63	Next question, Mr. Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u64	Mr President! Nuclear weapons and the proliferation of nuclear weapons threaten international security today perhaps more than ever, as an example of the situation in Iran and North Korea. This year's Nobel Peace Prize was won by the ICAN campaign, which encourages states to take action to ban nuclear weapons. In the summer, 122 countries supported this nuclear non-proliferation treaty in the UN, but Finland abstained in this vote. Today, however, these disarmament processes are very often triggered by NGO initiatives, such as this ICAN process. It would take all the countries to stop armaments, and it is important that Finland be involved in this front. The funds used for nuclear programmes should be used to support sustainable development. Foreign Minister Soini, why did Finland not support a new nuclear non-proliferation treaty in the UN?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u65	Mr President! The decision not to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement was taken in February at TP-UTVA, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has also been informed on this matter. Why we are not in this group is because Finland's starting point is practical. We support this objective, but we believe that genuine disarmament and stability and security can be promoted when the nuclear powers are involved, and in this they are not involved. So our goal is the same, a world without nuclear weapons, and Finland itself is committed to non-nuclear weapons. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u66	It is now possible to ask further questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u67	Mr President! I would have addressed my question to Prime Minister Sipilä. I listened to you very carefully in the first hour of morning 7.10. in a situation in which the ICAN organisation had won the Nobel Prize, you wondered that the international community was divided into two camps: an old group of non-proliferation supporters in which we are, and then this new set of non-proliferation treaties, 122 countries. You called for an open debate on what might be the most effective way for Finland to support a nuclear non-proliferation treaty, a world free of nuclear weapons. Your statement gave me the impression that this perhaps reflected the government's debate on the matter, perhaps also the debate with the President of the Republic. In your opinion, Prime Minister Sipilä, Finland will review its position on this issue, could it join the United Nations in joining the 122 countries that have advocated a nuclear non-proliferation treaty?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u68	Mr President! Indeed, there are in a way two camps: the countries behind the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and then, like Finland, those behind the non-proliferation treaty. Our starting point has been that, as a result, Finland has committed itself to non-nuclear weapons, and thus Finland has considered that it is the best way to influence disarmament. In that 1st hour, I wondered further that, for example, the parliamentary committees should have a good understanding of what this long-term policy in Finland is based on and whether there are still grounds for it. I personally believe that this current position makes sense. But, for example, in the relevant committees, I think it would be worth having a debate where officials and experts will be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u69	Mr. Speaker! There is no contradiction between the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. All 122 countries that voted in favour of this Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty are included in the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The background is that the second part of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, namely nuclear disarmament, which was a prerequisite for other countries' commitment not to acquire nuclear weapons, has not been taken forward at all in recent years, but, on the contrary, the nuclear powers are modernising and increasing their nuclear weapons. The purpose of this new agreement is to put pressure on the nuclear powers to carry out what they have already committed themselves to once again. And I ask: what kind of discussions were there with Sweden before each country made its own decisions? I also think that this is contrary to the fact that we must first have joint discussions with Sweden on all security policy issues before we make any decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u70	Mr President! Finland makes its own decisions — it has always made and will make its own security policy decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u71	Mr President! After all, Finland is in favour of nuclear disarmament, and we have seen the right path for this nuclear non-proliferation agreement signed by nearly 190 countries. Finland's voting behaviour was part of the annual arms control report in the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I do not remember that there was a vote in the Foreign Affairs Committee in the spring. I ask Minister Soin: now that you look at the situation in North Korea, have these key countries of the Non-Proliferation Treaty or have these 122 countries more than tried to influence the resolution of the North Korean crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u72	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs described this as it is. The situation in North Korea is extremely serious and, of course, we must try to influence them, mainly through negotiation, by applying for dialogue. And, of course, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, all of whom are nuclear powers, have played a rather key role here. That is also why it is important for these countries to put pressure on them and to make decisions to discourage North Korea from doing so. Then there is another matter which is very topical at the moment: the agreement with the United States of America in Iran. And now, with excitement, we are waiting for President Trump to make a decision to withdraw from this agreement. That would be a bad decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u73	We shall now move on to the next question. Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u74	Bästa statsminister Sipilä, vi bevittnar nu democracy kris i en av EU största medlemsländer. Situationen mellan Spaniens regering och det lokala parliamentet i Catalonian är catastrophalt dålig. Denna förtroendeklyfta kan minskas bara genom en dialogue. Vi kan inte Heller bara se på när fredliga activister brutalt slås ner av kavallpolis. Också Finlands regering måste ta ställning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u75	Mr President! Spain is a democracy and the rule of law, and the Spanish Constitution provides for the status of autonomous regions as part of Spain. This Constitutional Court ruled that the referendum convened by the Catalan regional government was unconstitutional. But Finland's starting point is, of course, to support democracy, the rule of law and unity in Spain, and there must be a political way to resolve this crisis. It's the only way to solve crises. It is a political path and a quest for consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u76	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u77	Mr President! Many farmers were already in financial difficulties before this autumn due, among other things, to lower producer prices, Russian sanctions and delays in aid. However, the situation is that Finnish consumers want domestic food. Access to these products is a matter for the whole food chain, not just for farmers. Thus, for example, the structure of crop damage insurance should be developed and the burden shared among the operators of the chain should be further redefined. It may be imagined that the food of the store's own brand is the same product as the branded products of the domestic manufacturer, in a different package only. However, this is not always the case. And the point is that even if it was made in Finland, the name of the manufacturer does not always appear on the store’s own label. This is wrong, isn't it, Minister Leppä?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u78	Mr President! It is true that the food market in Finland is currently not functioning as it should. A fair market economy is needed, and that is why the government has decided to start preparing a food market law that is specifically involved in this issue and in this setting. In addition to this, the mandate given to this working group — the working group has therefore been put together for this purpose — has also defined the tasks of the authorities, and to this authority the task force is now determining the powers and the place where this is properly located. And it is hoped that this will help this unhealthy market. There is also a clear message here for the whole food chain: act in a fair way so that all the links in the chain can make a living so that they can operate profitably. This is not the case now, and here again, again, I appeal to you to act accordingly. It is the only way that we can maintain domestic food production, domestic jobs. Ultimately, the question is whether the work is here in Finland or outside Finland's borders. The quality work, the safety and everything that goes with it is very valuable, and that is something we certainly do not want — and we cannot afford — to lose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u79	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u80	Mr President! The amending budget on which the debate is based will increase the revenue from this year's budget by around EUR 1 billion. This is partly due to positive economic growth, which partly results in an increase in corporate tax revenues due to car taxes and partly to gift and inheritance taxes of around EUR 1 billion, which will then reduce the need for borrowing. On the expenditure side, this amending budget provides for more than EUR 11 million for the rehabilitation of veterans and services to be taken home. This increase on the expenditure side will make it possible to provide better services for veterans and target home in particular, and this is what these organisations are very much agreed on. The amending budget is very technical and does not contain any other significant changes. This includes objection to section 33, which is very much in line with the report. In addition, there is an objection to the general arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u81	Mr President! This additional budget report could actually be assessed from three starting points: firstly, on what the economic and employment situation is at present, on the way in which it has now been decided to use the margin, and also on what is at the root of this positive development at the moment. As stated in the general reasoning of the Government’s proposal, tax estimates have increased considerably. Although some of them are, according to the information provided by the Tax Administration, such one-off increases, it must be noted that there has been room for manoeuvre in the economy, and this has now been decided by the Government to direct this year's debt payment by almost 100%.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u86	Mr President! Mr Uotila, a member of the Committee on Finance, which I very much appreciated, spoke and presented that proposal for a statement to be annexed to this amending budget, and he proposes that this financial margin be used instead of an accelerated loan payment for some other, necessary and important items in itself, but of course it is worth bearing in mind that, at the moment, although the government has been very consistent in its economic policy making and in its recovery, it is not yet the case of an accelerated loan payment but is in a situation of slow borrowing. The budget for next year will still contain a deficit of EUR 3 billion, and the question is that if this billion, which you referred to here, were to be allocated to other uses, it would mean borrowing EUR 4 billion, and that is not a sustainable economic policy. In that sense, the government is now doing exactly the right economic policy, because we are trying to get rid of the deficit and also then
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u87	Mr President! I know that in this Parliament all parliamentary parties attach great importance to the work of our war veterans, both during the war and during the reconstruction. I was in a privileged position when, as a representative of my parliamentary group, I was able to accept the common concern of veterans' organisations, the concerns about the financing of the rehabilitation of veterans and the financing of the services to be taken home, which veterans' organisations brought together to parliamentarians, to every parliamentary group. They expressed concern that the estimates of the financing of the services to be taken home are now based on the May situation and not, as was the case in previous years, on the estimates made by the municipalities in July and on the figures then known. The concern was expressed by the Veterans' organisations as to whether the money that has now been put forward would be sufficient for the services to be taken home this year, and I share this concern with all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u88	Mr President! In the context of the debate on the amending budget and the budget itself, it is important to bear in mind the most important issue at the moment, namely the labour market situation. You get up or fall a lot with it. The forest sector is, thank God, still a hard core of the Finnish economy, but the labour market situation in the forest sector is extremely serious. We can see industrial battles, statements of opinion, at worst even a shutdown in the next few weeks. The instability of the labour markets and the extremely harsh and irresponsible line of the EK can make it difficult for new investments in the forest industry to take place in Finland, such as Kemi and Kemijärvi, and when I remember well how the raw game was played in Finland, I would not even think of it as a miracle that some of these investments could be driven away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u89	Mr President! With regard to value choices, we must remember that, at the moment, Parliament will also be dealing with next year's budget, and, of course, value choices will be made and it will also be possible to return to this view expressed by Mr Kari as to whether the funds will be sufficient in the future. My reply, however, relates to this speech by Mr Uotila, who underestimated the purchasing power of households. However, in the same consultation that we have had, experts have provided higher growth figures for research institutes than the Ministry of Finance, and it is precisely because private purchasing power sustains faster growth than the Ministry of Finance has predicted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u90	Honorable Speaker! I am paying exactly the same attention as Mr Kalli. In the week, we heard remarkable growth forecasts for next year, and these good growth figures for next year are leaving the consumer's purchasing power, private investment and private consumption. In fact, Mr Uotila, in his protest, stated precisely that this accelerated loan payment would not be made here. In fact, the government is doing this in such a way as to take less of the eating debt. So the Left Alliance is suggesting that we take on more eating debt, and even though they are good targets, education, welfare and so on, in fact, this left-wing union proposal leads to our debt relationship not yet falling apart. This is the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u91	I would like to give Mr Mäkipää a reply at this stage and then Mr Uotila, who has started this debate. There are still many others here after him, but now, after Uotila, all the groups have had one speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u92	Mr President! As in the private economy, so also in the state economy, it is good to always remember the words of the song that "the debt must be paid, how it is, isn't it?" and so on. The actions of this government now to become a hedge: Let us try to pay these debts for future generations. This billion is a good thing. Now that we know that employment is perhaps improving and exports are improving, it is, of course, good to remind you that we have something to do with next year's budget. If that money is mobile, then we must take care of all the most low - income people, whether it be families with children or older people, pensioners or so. But this is the right direction for us also to take care of present and future generations so that we do not just put money on. This little hand denunciation of war veterans and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u93	Mr President! It is strange that the honourable Members do not understand that, in addition to the EUR 1 billion debt, we have a welfare debt that is constantly being incurred, and it is precisely by failing to invest in education, research, product development, the resources that we need in the coming decades. If we are simply one-eyed in thinking that it is quick to just pay off the debt, then we will forget about these contributions, a country that has disabled its education system, education, welfare system, and even its smaller billion - dollar debt. But one who keeps his society in order, invests in knowledge and education, invests in keeping everyone involved, actively employing, infra and so on, survives even heavier billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u94	The debatable continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u95	Mr President! First of all, in connection with the discussion of this additional budget, we left a different opinion because we felt that the long-standing understatement in terms of both the rehabilitation of veterans and the provision of home services should be able to correct already in the amending budget. When an increase of EUR 11.6 million is made, it is already known at this stage that this money will be based on the calculations made in May on the basis of the municipal declaration. When all the municipalities finally announced this service need in July, it already became clear that these appropriations now being amended by the amending budget will be slightly under-estimated in relation to the needs of the municipalities. In this regard, we would like to draw attention to this, because Parliament is on behalf of all the groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u96	Mr President! First of all, we must give Mr Uotila and the Left Alliance credit for the coherence. In the run-up to the elections, you have, at the time, not been in agreement with the demand of the other parties to make savings, you have already been prepared to take on more debt and you have been opposed to the competitiveness pact even when it was concluded. Now the Greens, Mr Viitanen and the other demars have noticed that this is a bad agreement, even though they were unanimous in approving and supporting it. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u97	Mr President! I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is extraordinary that what actually happened was that the assembly cut the leave money for carers and teachers. This is on the back of the coalition, because we have already heard from Jyri Häkämies, as well as from the employees, that, in fact, the pressure of the government on these public-sector holiday payments was the result of these cuts. We also know that the government, under the threat of forced law, blackmailed organisations to agree on this. We are always in favour of this as Social Democrats, but not of blackmail tactics, and that is why we have never accepted this cut in holiday money. And now that growth is better — the government itself has wanted holiday allowance cuts — the government can also cancel them. We have repeatedly appealed to you, Mr Government, to consider these hardworking public sector administrators, teachers, midwives, cleaners, policemen and return them to a fair decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u98	Mr President! I am not going in any way to assess how much economics has lost representative Uotila, but I definitely believe that now that tax revenues are clearly starting to grow, it is high time to reduce government debt. I would say to Mr Kiuru, with regard to those veteran funds, that they will now be increased, taking into account this year's actual budget and this additional budget, 2.5 times, from EUR 21,3 million to EUR 52,9 million. It is quite an improvement to the situation, to that under-budgeted situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u99	Mr President! In the course of this debate, you get the impression that either you have to be up-to-date against debt payment or you have to be up-to-date against cuts in education, research and basic security. However, this is not the case; these two issues are not counter-specific to each other. The Greens will present in their own alternative budget increases in education, increases in basic security, welfare services, and yet we will maintain the government's schedule of loan payments. This is possible by taking into account, for example, all the environmentally harmful subsidies, the various tax reliefs, which therefore support harmful issues, and, among other things, the sugar tax, which would very quickly generate a couple of hundred million euros in additional money for the annual budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u100	Mr President! We have about 17,000 veterans of our wars alive. The number of veterans is less than 2,000, and the number of veterans is decreasing at a high pace. I think it is very valuable that Parliament has taken a decision across party lines that these veteran money is now being kept at an adequate level. This decision has also been followed exactly by the current government. So now that the need for services has grown, more and more veterans and their mates have been admitted to these services and the need for funding has increased, the Minister of Finance, Orpo, proposes an increase. This is the second amending budget and, if I have understood correctly, there will be a third amending budget. If there is a need, then Minister Orphan will certainly increase the budget. This has never been the case before. Now let's do it for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u101	Mr President! Before the elections, the Left Alliance really said that we are not ready for cuts, of course we were prepared to make sensible savings. Even then, we said that these billions, which were the subject of a public call for competition, lead to cuts in education, basic security. In fact, we were very honest when we said that this would happen, unlike, for example, the coalition which made a promise of education, which became a fraud in education at the deliberations of Minister Grahn-Laasonen. It seems to be a rather unusual choice of values to talk about children and grandchildren, but at the same time, current adults are being given tax reductions and, at the same time, children, current children, are being cut off from education, opportunities for the future. I miss it, the Civilization Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u102	Mr. Speaker! When Antti Rinne made his last budget, there was much less appropriation for the rehabilitation of veterans than there is now, even though the number of veterans has been falling very strongly all along.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u105	Mr President! When I look at this amending budget, what has been included in that report, one can say calmly that, when we know the problems of the Finnish economy, the competitiveness pact and the related measures have certainly been the right thing for the government. The disease has been known, the medicine has been known, as can be seen from those tax increases that the state has received in its treasury: there has been an increase in corporation tax, which means that companies are well well off, VAT has become more, that is, the economy is spinning. So all of this proves absolutely inevitable that the disease is known, the drug bites, this is the way to go. As far as the payment of the debt is concerned, we must send a clear message from this house to the outside world that Finland will take care of its own business. This House is currently sitting with parliamentarians who have been here since the beginning of the 1990s to correct that huge economic collapse. What was the situation then? 500,000 unemployed and so on. At the time, the Finnish economy was on the brink of a cliff, I'm sure no one wants to go there. It is worth continuing along this path, the economy is being set up, and Finland is doing well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u106	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Kari, Mr Mäkelä and then to Mr Uotila, who started this debate, and then move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u107	Mr President! It is not a question of Mr Kiviranta, how much is being increased now, how much is being increased to finance services for veterans; it is a question of whether the money is sufficient for the needs of veterans and their spouses. This has already been said by Mr Heinonen, and I wanted to underline it myself. It is a question of the fact that, after the average age of veterans has risen significantly to over 90 and the need for services has grown, it is also necessary to increase the budget to ensure that care and care have the effect that we all hope to have. But when here the Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Heinonen, on behalf of Minister Orpo, promised that the third amending budget would come and, if necessary, the money would be found, I really hope that this will be kept. A veteran friend must not be left behind — not this generation, which owes most of all to that generation, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u108	Mr President! I wonder about this shortsightedness of the Left Alliance. In this economic situation, there must be patience to look beyond toetips and to think about the future. If we do not today make sure that we have employment in order, that work is profitable and that the burden of debt is also reduced, one can only ask whether our children's back will be able to bear that burden in the future. I consider the line chosen by the government now, even in this amending budget, to be very responsible and very well-founded, unlike Mr Uotila's proposal. Then, to the additions to our honorary citizens: After all, the Parliament has required the government to monitor the adequacy of the rehabilitation of veterans and the appropriations allocated to the services to be taken home, as well as the functioning of the services and, if necessary, to take measures to enable all veterans to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u109	And one last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u110	Mr President! I have to confess to this design. It's not important, it's important. Of course we mean whether it is wise, when there is room for manoeuvre of more than one billion, to put everything just to reduce debt for this year. With regard to the one-eyedness of the government parties with all the room for debt payment, I look forward to the Christmas gift ceremony at the end of December. It will probably lead to the government parties not to add to the pain that is important here and there in December this year, but to the logical conclusion that it is now necessary to use all the room for manoeuvre to pay the debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u111	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! With that debat, I'm going to keep on saying it's not up to me. We are going to have a third amending budget in any case, and we are also going to have a supplementary budget for next year, i.e. there will be more places where, in accordance with Parliament's joint decision, we will certainly return to this money, that is, to ensure that there is enough money for each veteran. We were talking about what this billion is being spent on, which is now being used to reduce debt. It is worth recalling that even after this year, net borrowing is estimated to be still around EUR 4.4 billion, which means that we will continue to make significant additional debts. So we are not paying off the debts that have yet been taken away, but we are taking a new debt to run this country. The debt also sometimes has to be paid, and one might well ask: is this borrowing not enough for the left-wing alliance? In this amending budget, the government will increase the estimate of central government revenue net by around EUR 1 billion and additional appropriations will be allocated EUR 18.5 million, and the increase in these estimates will result in more favourable and better growth than anticipated for our country's economy. In fact, for the first time in seven years, our economy will grow as widely as it currently is, and that means that unemployment will decrease, both youth unemployment and long-term unemployment, which means that more and more Finns have been caught up in this economic growth and, as a result, work. Employment is thus improving and the economy is growing. The most significant additions here concern the proceeds of corporation tax, inheritance tax and gift tax and also VAT and car tax. I have used car tax as an example of the fact that while the car tax has been reduced during this term of government, tax revenues are still increasing. Even this reduction in car tax was loudly opposed by the Social Democrats here in Parliament, and now, after this reduction, more money is actually coming into the treasury. Despite the decision to reduce the car tax, the value-added tax and car tax revenue estimate will be increased by a total of EUR 180 million. It has brought improvement to our fleet, new cars are safer and we welcome it. The key change in the draft amending budget relates to this Veteran rehabilitation and their services to be taken home, which will therefore amount to EUR 11.6 million. As I said in the debate, between 39 and 45 veterans were alive at the beginning of this year about 17,000 and the number is falling rapidly. There are fewer than 1,800 war invalids from these veterans, and it is estimated that at the end of 2020 there will be only 6,500 veterans, of whom more than 3,000 men and the same number of women. There are about 900 war invalids. Their average age has already reached 92 years and is therefore falling rapidly, by an estimated 20% per year. This is why this government and this Parliament have made a solemn decision to take care of the rehabilitation money of every veteran. As part of the Finland 100 decision for the 2017 celebration year, I have also given my support in this Chamber to the Elomaan law initiative, which would allow all war-related candidates with a minimum of 10% disadvantage to be granted access to free municipal open services. On the basis of that description of the age of veterans and their spouses, it would no longer be necessary to look at these levels of disability, but to say that every veteran and every one of their spouses has earned the services they need. Mr President! What, then, is the reason for this need for additional funding? This is because municipalities have organised veteran services more efficiently than before. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! With reference to the previous debate, I would like to point out that, for example, the Left Alliance: The Uotila talks about the money now being spent on the payment of debt, so it may be that there are such technical factors at the same time affecting the taking-up of debt and the payment of debt. But in order not to forget the truth now, it is now very clear that after this billion, which according to this additional budget will generate more tax revenue for the state this year than was calculated, we will be taking over EUR 4 billion of new debt this year to reduce net borrowing, so we will continue, in the present perspective. And when we consider that the entire budget of the state is about EUR 55 billion, everyone understands how significant debt is at stake. [Quick Five] As far as this competitiveness pact is concerned, I would like to say very clearly that I personally believe that the agreement itself has been of benefit to Finland, to its economic development and, above all, to employment. The allegations that the government has specifically decided on holiday allowance cuts in the public sector, or even more imaginative, that it is precisely the coalition, as Mr Viitanen put it, that has decided on holiday allowance cuts in the public sector, that are unfounded. The Government set targets on how this contract system, which was originally known as a social contract and later as a competitiveness agreement, can improve Finland's cost competitiveness, but the final content of the various components of this competitiveness agreement was negotiated in practice between the social partners. Originally, the government did not propose any holiday allowance cuts, Mr Viitanen. Originally, Prime Minister Sipilä proposed, as part of the social pact, that working time should have been extended. If this extension of working time of about 20 minutes per day had been carried out, there would have been no need for any holiday allowance cuts included in the final competitiveness agreement, nor would there have been any need for these changes in payments made to the loss of employees, which has then been compensated by the government's tax receipts. As far as the public sector holiday allowance cuts are concerned, I have said many times, but I would say again that if and when these holiday allowance cuts were made, it was unfair in my opinion that they were targeted only on the public sector's often relatively low-paid and female-dominated groups of workers. The nurses and carers mentioned here, the librarians, the teachers, of course the police, the firemen, and so forth suffered. If and when the holiday money was cut, it would have been fair that the holiday money had been cut across the line, but of course this did not happen to private sector employee organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u114	Mr President! Let's go over it one more time. I have here the Government's notice 28.9.2015, in which the Government says that instead of these Sunday supplements and overtime allowances, it has decided to cut the holiday allowance by 30 per cent. This was preceded by the government’s threat to employees’ organisations that, if no agreement is reached, the government will make compulsory laws. These press releases now talk about the content of these coercive laws. The government had not only cutbacks on holiday but also reductions in the pay for sick leave and reductions in the maximum length of annual leave and so on. If this has not now become clear that the government had these intentions, these government's own press releases, then I am now a little surprised where they might be made clear to Mr Zyskowicz too, especially since the employee was initially told that there was pressure on the government to cut the holiday money,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u115	Mr President! At the stage of the preparation of the social pact, as it was originally called, there were different goals and different intentions at the table. Originally, when we talk about the post-election movement, long before that government left, Prime Minister Sipilä went to apply for a social pact. The government's aim was not to cut holiday allowances of any kind, but to conclude an agreement with employees' organisations and employers' organisations, which should have included an extension of working time. Then came these so-called mandatory laws and so on. As far as the attitude of the Social Democrats is concerned, Mr Viitanen and Mr Kiuru and their partners have later found that they have always been opposed to the competitiveness pact. This is interesting. I wonder how Mr Rinne has said that he believes that the support of the SDP was negatively affected by the fact that the competitiveness pact was supported, if not supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u117	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that there is a difference of opinion in this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u120	Mr President! Of the two amendments tabled, in fact, the SDP's proposal is almost identical to that contained in last year's budget report and, in fact, it is almost identical on this basis, the SDP's amendment. I was just wondering whether this should actually be put to the vote at all or whether it should even go through unanimously, in fact, because it is in line with the will of Parliament. Well, what about this proposal from the Left Alliance? After all, we are taking on more eating debt here, and in fact the government is not paying back the loan but is taking down less debt in this proposal, and now that the debt ratio has just been broken, this is a rather bad proposal. To begin with, the government's economic policy and fiscal policy line is good. Of course, in our own option, we will then make certain changes within the spending limits, of course. But, as we see, the economic and employment figures are good, more jobs are being created, more investment on the public and private side is constantly on the way, and in fact it may be that next year the surprise will come from the private investment that has not yet been taken into account in these growth forecasts for next year, and I believe that next year's growth forecasts for GDP will be closer to 3 than 2 which is currently the VM forecast.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u121	Mr President! According to the old saying, economic trends come like a thief at night. This applies both to the upturn and to the downturn. At the moment, however, economists see the economic situation in Finland as a rare consensus that good development continues at its own weight and there is no need for further efforts to strengthen economic development right now. This is an economist's assessment, regardless of the political preference of each of us. The criteria for good economic development are now in the right position. It is quite likely that Finland’s economy will eventually grow by more than 3 per cent this year, and employment is steadily improving.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u122	Mr. Speaker! Firstly, on this proposal for a statement by Mr Uotila, Mr Uotila, a few words. Indeed, the state is still in debt this year, according to the budget, almost EUR 5 billion, but now less when growth has started and is visible. But the debt rate of almost 10% is a serious problem. Our debt level is not so much a problem yet, but this rate of growth remains, and the Finns are concerned about this. That is why we cannot support this statement in this form, that all this over one billion will be used to reduce debt. It is clear that we now have serious social problems as a result of the cuts and for other reasons. Perhaps the most serious thing I personally consider is where people get a lot of contact: whether to buy medicine or food today. The government must intervene quickly, but unfortunately it has not yet intervened despite this growth. In other words, it is necessary to increase medical expenses and take account of medical expenses in people’s lives. One might even say that it might be worth sending the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to see if a decent life is to come about in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u127	Mr President! Of course, it is interesting to have this interpretation of the history of the Finns. In his speech, Mr Kankaanniemi succeeded in making the interpretation that the Finns have been in government to cause economic growth, but those cuts were not, of course, made by the Finns in that government. Unfortunately, you yourself have been guilty of this now. As far as this review of history is concerned and what the Social Democrats have achieved — and this is the favourite subject of Mr Kankaanniemi — I would say that it is sometimes worth looking into how much cuts were made at the time when Mr Kankaanniemi himself was in the government. I'll bet there's been a lot of cutbacks back then, these years. I believe that Mr Kangasniemi may not be happy to remember those times well here. President! All in all, I would like to remind you and point out that the Social Democrats have a good contribution to make here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u128	Mr Hoskonen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u129	Mr President! Now this review of the amending budget has received some rather strange features. Mr President, once the economy has finally been put in order, the opposition seems to have great ingredients for getting this thing done again, to quote the Prime Minister. Did you not have the means during the last parliamentary term to avoid the near disaster? Mr Viitanen here with his head in mind will be able to advise the government on what to do, but, as I said yesterday in my speech, you also had the wrong papers. When everything went to the government towards the print shop and now you have the right papers in the opposition again, I think it would be time for you, Mr President, to change the place of those papers. You always have the wrong papers and the wrong place. Sometimes things are bad, and then you'll have the wrong papers with you, but when you're doing well, you'll have the wrong papers with you again. Now, ladies and gentlemen, one day at least try to get those papers in the right order, that it would be of some use to the national economy. Continued reproaching others and being wise afterwards does not increase Parliament’s authority. I'm wondering a lot. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, think that the citizens in those turbulent and squares will follow you when you are always told that you have the right papers with you, but everything is worse and worse in the economy and then someone will have to repair them after you. Where I come from, this is said by another term, but I don't mind saying it here. In any case, the economy is currently growing and is heading in the right direction. When, as I said in my reply, a billion more revenue has been generated, it has been added specifically to corporate taxes, which means that business is playing. Companies do, and then they pay taxes, pay wages and take on more labour. 50,000 more people have been employed today since this government began. This means that the state, the municipalities and the parishes have increased significant tax revenues and unemployment costs for the state are decreasing. It's definitely a double benefit. This is something you are not talking to anyone about, but you are smarting up about some one allowance that does not matter in itself. For example, the matter of veterans is certainly being dealt with; there is no need to worry about it. Similarly, VAT revenue is higher, which means that the economic intensity is good and is in a growing direction. Now all we have to do is make sure — and I firmly believe that there is great wisdom in the labour market organisations — that the right labour market agreements are drawn up so that this situation is not really messed up, but that people are getting more jobs, the number of unemployed people is falling and the economy is getting stronger. Finland has no other way. When this government started, we were on the edge of the abyss even then. The ratings were looking at us, and in interest rates, as we know, one credit ratingr showed us his thumb down. If 2% comes into our debt with more interest, that means 2 billion more government expenditure. Of what will you then, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, take the EUR 2 billion? It will no longer help the 30 million-dollar budget to strain things and distort who took more, who took less. It's a smileless place, I'm sure of it, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that the reality is taken as the facts, as it should be, and not assuring what happens. Getting an unemployed person to work is certainly the most important thing for all of us in this house number one. Talking about everything else is pointless. As tax revenue increases, unemployment falls and the rest is in a good direction, let us hold on to it with two hands and make sure that we really have better lives in this country, including those who are currently worse off. Mr President! Finally, as far as the veteran issue is concerned, since the local government finances have now been strengthened for a long time, last year there were 400 million municipalities with surplus, the money coming from the state will certainly be used to help and support veterans and their widows and loved ones, but when the local government finances are strong, the municipalities will also help with their other money, with their own money, which they as tax euros have collected from the citizens. I know from my home country that there are a lot of tax clubs that are being used there for the rehabilitation of veterans, day care, and many other things. People live longer at home, they take different services home with the municipality's own money. You will never say anything about this either, but you will say that everything is going badly. I would at least like to see some sort of reality, because I have learned in my life that recognising the facts this time again is certainly the best option for us and also for the opposition. I strongly recommend it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Mr Hoskonen's speech was the last speech to be made and that the maximum time limit of 5 minutes applies to pre-requested speeches. Now, after that, Mr Hoskosen, in the speeches that have been requested, there is no longer that limit of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u131	Mr President! The economic and employment policy line of the Left Alliance was very consistent and clear before the parliamentary elections, but we did not know how to defend it. We weren't ready for the election fight, and we lost that race 100 to 0. We were left alone in that debate, just as we were left behind in the kiky solution. Here, too, we have been consistent. But there's nothing to be ashamed of, if you're alone when you're right, as we were. For example, Mr Kiyi has nothing to do with the bet on exports and the increase in exports. This kiky was built in such a way that it was the government that created the arrangement by putting the head of the employee on the log, the neck of the rope and even the gun on the temple and then saying that it is now being negotiated. In other words, the withdrawal of the government from this responsibility is quite a gamble when you know what, for example, Prime Minister Sipilä was saying in the PAM government. It was a direct threat. A couple of weeks ago, I visited a forestry tractor and harvester factory in Joensuu, where the workers and the factory manager said that the exports have been going on for a long time. There are 450 employees, strong research and product development, world-class know-how. All of this must be mirrored against the fact that what these training cuts will do to this type of production in the future, when it was already apparent that properly trained new workers might not be available for the factory in the near future. If anything, it is irresponsible: build a list of cuts that eats the fins of future growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u132	Mr President! In this debate, we all agree that the economy is growing, and everyone too has underlined that it will enable the budget to be balanced by 1 billion additional tax revenues. We have all agreed on this. Once we have put a competitiveness pact on the table, we have had a number of different aspects. Some want to assume overall responsibility for the Competitiveness Pact, they see it as a large entity that has created predictability and stability and has certainly played a part in this economic growth. Others, on the other hand, want to extract individual negative things from it, which are, unfortunately, embarrassing. But our assessment has been entirely based on this whole, and in time we have been prepared to accept it. Even though the economy is growing and Finland seems to be doing well, the threats and dangers that may be lurking in the global economy and which should be taken into account in all economic discussions have not been very much raised in this debate, and that is why, to whom economic growth belongs, the future can be built on too short squirrels. As a farmer, tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of hectares of grain have not been harvested — if these sowers had laid something significant for these squirrels for the future, they are currently in a very difficult situation. So it is only after the grain is in there that we can think about what to do with it. In other words, in this debate it is worth bearing in mind that Finland is an export dependent country entirely dependent on international markets, and because we will continue to have them in full use, we need to improve productivity, competitiveness and, if there is room for growth, we need to be able to increase the kind of measures that can improve productivity and competitiveness. Usually here in Parliament when it is discussed, it is said that Finland spends very little on research and development, but that is not necessarily true either. Finland is still among the top five countries with regard to public R & D money. Unfortunately, only private investment in recent years has clearly decreased and, therefore, efforts should be made to improve both of these in the future. It will ensure that, through its growth, the economy can be managed far in the future so that debt can be reduced and benefits can be increased and, in particular, the basic income of disadvantaged people improved. I would also like to point out that the Sipilä Government, throughout its existence, will operate in such a way that services for the rehabilitation and repatriation of veterans will be provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u133	Mr President! Indeed, when preparing this year's budget, the Parliament required that "the government monitor the adequacy of the appropriations allocated to the rehabilitation of veterans and to the provision of services supporting their living at home and take action, if necessary, to enable all veterans to access the services intended for them". This Parliament's obligation has worked in an excellent way. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, Prime Minister Sipilä also said at the national celebration of veterans that veteran budgets will be brought to the level that they will be sufficient for the entire veteran's needs. This has just been done, and this is a fine line both by Parliament and by the government, and we can all be happy about this, of course. The fact that the Social Democrats will then shake off their own objections and the proposal for a statement that 'the Parliament requires the government to provide adequate funding for the rehabilitation of veterans and the services to be taken home, and will assess the level of funding in the future according to the real need', seems to me to be a rather absurd proposal in a situation where there is either a posteriori situation or a great deal of thought for the future. However, I want to see this as positive, but I cannot understand the fact that we are strengthening what has already been said in many ways, both in Parliament, in the government and then both through the budget and through the amending budget now in the concepts. In this sense, it is my opinion that it might not be worth kicking every ball into the finish line as the idea that it will be there in some way. Above all, the Veterans' organisations have welcomed this year's situation, now the amendment to the amending budget, next year's line that the veteran budget is sufficient for rehabilitation, for services to be taken home and for others, and that is a great thing. For the first time in the history of Finland, veteran organizations have stated that these appropriations are in place. How can we always judge whether someone is sufficient or not, for this purpose it is the government that has taken its own line so that the amending budget or the supplementary budget will take care of the matter in such a way that the funds will not run out. Many municipalities have improved, for example, the City of Kuopio, my municipality of residence, has done an excellent job now that more money has been made available for veteran services. This has been made possible by the fact that more than 11 million have also returned to the veteran budget and, as a result, their use is being managed in such a way that they go there. This is the right course of action from both the State Office and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and this is the direction in which the Advisory Board for Front Affairs has taken this issue all the time, so that as flexiblely as possible it is possible to use the funds and, above all, the veterans will then receive the services they are meant to receive, and this is not even the centenary of the centenary year of our father's country, but the very need we have in Finland for veterans and in the following years. There will be a certain increase in the need because, depending on the age of the veterans and the need for rehabilitation and the availability of services, there will be more and more demanding situations and, therefore, that appropriation will have to be assessed every year against the background of the amount of money that is actually needed. Now we are moving on in the right way, and I think this is a credit to the whole of Finnish society. In this sense, I believe that this protest by the Social Democrats is a real game policy of this kind. Mr. Speaker! The second point I would like to make here is the protest made by the Left Alliance. I too find it very difficult to understand this accelerated loan payment. Now let's eat from the table where we haven't even made the cake yet. Yes, for this nation, we should first be able to achieve that wealth and then be able to distribute it. Of course, I understand that it is easy to say that money is enough when there is money somewhere, and then we split it, but it is an irresponsible policy, because now, if we eat the table clean, does it not occur to you, in the Left Alliance, that the debt that is still being taken must sometimes be paid and then paid for by the next generations? It is the selfishness that is surprisingly evident in this society, and the fact that there is selfishness in the Left Alliance is quite amazing, because we must also be able to reduce debt, break it, as the government is trying to do. The more this path would be continued along that line, it would mean that Finland's debt would continue and future generations would then pay for our eating.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u135	Mr President! I am saddened by this speech by Mr Ross that he does not see the way in which the government eats the future opportunities of our children and grandchildren by cutting out education, cutting out early education, raising kindergarten groups, taking up subjective day care rights. This is precisely the cutting from the future that you are doing. And why are you doing this? Because you are giving today's adult tax reductions in your greedy heads: a reduction in the taxation of millions of inheritances, a massive tax reduction is being distributed to pharmacists. Is this not the greed of giving more to those who already have the most, and at the same time cutting from our children? To this greed I wish,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u136	Mr President! When the papers were discussed here, let us say that, fortunately, there have sometimes been the right papers in front of us, that decisions were taken over the last period, among other things, with regard to infrastructure and construction, that growth really started back in 2015. Now the central issue, now the central question: Now that growth is accelerating and the world is to be drawn, its growth must belong to all. And if you do not believe the papers of the SDP — I am referring, for example, to Mr Hoskonen’s speech earlier — then you should believe the papers of the experts. That is what the Committee on Budgets is reading and telling us how disastrous, for example, educational cuts are. Economists say that, many economic scholars. Do you believe those papers? Does the government even believe their own papers? It is stated in the government's own proposals that, for example, these generous tax cuts mentioned by Arhinmäki for the better-off do not even increase employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u137	Mr President! It is also a good thing to talk about the fact that Finland's wealth today is very much based on the fact that, at one time, the entire left and centre — such a centre that I am happy to recall — a system was built by the political coalition, where the children of the poor family were also able to learn if there were such desires for learning. And for example, Nokia’s rise into economic power was based on having a well - trained workforce in a small nation that could be recruited when the need came. I think you should remember these. When I said that example, how we can already see that, although there are far too many unemployed, there is also a shortage of labour, and if the training cuts result in employers not being able to respond to the needs of the labour force with accurate training, good basic training, vocational training, research and product development, then when the next recession comes — and it will certainly come — then we will be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u138	Mr President! Mr Mustajärvi, if we were not to make these economic corrections in Finland throughout this parliamentary term, at some point, when it comes down again in the economy, then we would be in trouble. In other words, we must be able to move ahead with the economic adjustment process in accordance with the government programme. When the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats were also in the government in the previous period in terms of cuts in education, it was also about the same thing, that is, how we can save spending in society, to make things more efficient. And yes, there is a need for reform of the structures. I think someone once said that they could wash their hands. Well, I can see that. We do accept the responsibility of improving employment, improving the economic base of society, and so on. We are not greedy to give anyone different tax reductions, but we want to support Finnish work, entrepreneurialism, so that it is also profitable in this society. In this sense, this is a whole. And as far as I'm concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u139	To the list of speakers. — Part of those who have asked for a reply will be here shortly in the actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u140	Mr President! I would like to return a little to these previous speeches, Mr Ross and Mr Kankaanniemi. I believe I speak with a lot of words when I say that we all appreciate the work done by veterans and the work done by their generation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u143	Mr. Speaker! There was a recollection of the Aho government, and with the President we were in that government, and yes, we are certainly both back on the straight side that during that time Finland was raised from a total disaster, which was in fact one step away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u150	I would like to respond to Mr Ross, the representative of the Chamber, who has dealt with this particular issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u151	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kankaanie for his fair speech, especially as chairman of the municipal and health section and, of course, also as a member of the current opposition group, the People's Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u154	Mr President! This amending budget is quite positive in so far as borrowing is slowing down by EUR 1 billion as previously envisaged. The income tax reductions made by the original board of Sipilä, which have largely focused on low and medium incomes, have contributed to a significant increase in tax revenue. The reduction in income tax has led to an increase in disposable income, which has helped to improve employment, not as an only factor, of course, but as a part of it. As a result of the economic situation and the increase in private consumption, VAT revenues are estimated to increase by as much as EUR 158 million in this amending budget, and the first amending budget has already increased them a little more. Similarly, the car tax revenue will rise by EUR 32 million. These are very good signs both for central government finances and for our future economic and employment development, and it is certainly worth continuing along the same path. From the point of view of continuing to keep these economic wheels running at an accelerated pace and keeping the conditions for employment, especially in the low-wage sectors, the government should reconsider whether the income tax scales planned for next year's budget should be made more favourable to low and medium-income earners. Apart from employees, this applies in particular to changes in the taxation of pensioners. A recipient of a monthly pension of EUR 1600 would benefit from the tax changes presented at EUR 10 per year, a beneficiary of a monthly pension of EUR 10000 as much as EUR 480, and it is even more than a reduction in income tax on an equivalent wage income. In this respect, the government really needs to re-evaluate its income tax proposal. Mr President! Finally, as Mr Kankaanniemi has just said, veterans will have all the support they need next year. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u155	Mr President! I am sure everyone in this Chamber is pleased that this amending budget is putting the rehabilitation of veterans in order. I'm the grandchild of two veterans myself. But at the same time, the other side of this is actually when the economy has started to grow, and this is a chance to think about whether it will reduce direct debt or, in some respects, also make investments that reduce welfare debt. It is therefore important that there should be a more general debate on what are the points to be invested in in such a situation. When we talk a lot about our children and grandchildren, what are the cuts that create precisely the welfare debt and educational debt for our children and grandchildren, and do we have the right to do so? Mr Rossi said in his own speech that the previous Katainen government, in particular the Stubb government, cut out of education, and this is true. It's an uncontroversial fact. But what is also an uncontroversial fact is that it is precisely because of this before the last parliamentary elections that every parliamentary party said that education has already been cut too much, there is no more cuts. I myself have been in the chair of the party in the panels and in the debates in which each parliamentary party made this promise of education. But after the election, what happened to this educational promise? It became an educational fraud. Under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, there have been record cuts to the educational sector, and this will be precisely the question to which the statement of opposition from the Left refers. In a situation where the economy is starting to improve, in a situation where the Prime Minister has said that growth belongs to everyone, part of the leeway that has now come in relation to this year's budget should precisely be found not only to shorten the financial debt, but also to reduce the welfare debt, and this is especially about our children and grandchildren, education, early education. In that sense, it really would have been a place in this amending budget to deliver on the promises made before the elections, or rather, in some respects to take back the educational fraud that was committed after the elections. Mr President! In this situation, when we discuss the amending budget and the fact that, with growth, we have more tax revenue than anticipated, it is important and important to talk about the big picture of the economy. At the moment, wage negotiations are taking place. The Prime Minister has also said that the zero line would be unfair, and I agree with the Prime Minister on that. Now we need to think about what has been the pay line in recent years and what opportunities there are. If we think about how the state has come and all of us taxpayers have come to meet the companies, the list is long: the write-off of the Kela levy, about EUR 1 billion; the reduction in corporation tax, about EUR 800 million, perhaps a billion, when you calculate it in its entirety. And now in the kiky agreement, when employees are transferred from previous employers' contributions, we are talking about a pot of around EUR 2 billion. For this reason, when these were transferred and when they were tax deductible payments, the government, for its part, pushed through the fact that it was on the public side that wage savings should be made, and thus this holiday allowance cut was made. This holiday allowance cut sought the room for manoeuvre for public finances to provide these tax reductions to ensure that overall taxation would not increase. This means that the purchasing power of the private sector workers remains relatively present. On the other hand, on the public side, where holiday money is being cut, purchasing power is weakening. It should be borne in mind that when it is said that hand-held income does not necessarily deteriorate, so in view of the rise in prices, purchasing power is essential both from the perspective of the national economy and from the point of view of the people, and it is that of the public sector workers who do. Now that we have the opportunity to act and then we can assess what our rival countries are doing — Sweden and Germany are generally mentioned — in fact, in Sweden and Germany, wages were already, before this long, through extreme and zero contracts, and then after that, even higher than the kiky agreement, and the working year was shorter. We have all the time grown this distinction between our competitors and, as has been heard, these agreements that are being concluded in Sweden and Germany are growing further. In this situation, when our economy is growing, companies have distributed record-high dividends, i.e. they are doing well, it would be reasonable, at least reasonable for employees to receive their share of this growth and also for the low-income, pensioners, unemployed, students who have been cut off. In fact, it is an extraordinary situation that when the economy is growing elsewhere in the world, businesses are doing well, companies are making profits, of course employees are getting their share of it by means of wage increases, so what is done in Finland: we are paying this economic growth with tax reductions, what is given to employees, not by means of wage increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u158	Mr President! There has been a good debate and lively debate here, and that is where Mr Kankaanniemi held a good history. When I was young, younger — not young but younger — in this Parliament too, I would be happy to listen to the parents’ stories about how these things have gone. I agree with what Mr Kankaanniemi said, and many others, Mr Arhinmäki and here from the SDP, that medical expenses, training and many other cuts have been drastic. But I would like us to do it in such a way that we would look at next year's budget, which we would be happy to compensate for, that we would not return those cuts to people but look at other targets. Now that we are still going through this impetus which Mr Uotila of the Left has done, when it says 'instead of an adjusted loan payment', this is now a little mistaken, and not so little, so we are actually borrowing less, we had no accelerated loan payment as far as I know. It gives the wrong impression, people get confused anyway. Then if you don't go along with all the ponies, then there's gonna be a terrible hello, and it's because of this, when you do sort of, either intentionally or accidentally, unclear sentences here in the ponies. And since this has been our Parliament's will, I can support the idea that we take into account the lower incomes and the middle incomes, but I am not really... I'm the one who spent the night thinking, but I do feel like this is a little misleading, and maybe this isn't a fair game going on. That is why today, in their group statement, the Finns raised the cost of immigration. That is one thing: we do not even know what it costs. We here have been talking about quite a small amount of money, pinching it there, pinching it here, and yet we do not have any information on the cost of immigration. It was agreed in the Government Programme that it would be done, it has been over two years. It can no longer be a question of not being informed, but of not wanting to bring out the amounts. If we had those sums openly on the table, we could see where to pinch. For example, when the Finns of Finland looked at next year’s budget proposal, the unit costs of these reception centres have risen. I mean, how can that be? If you don't look at them, it's kind of like a spike open there — well, it's a little awkward now, and that's not going to happen, and now the problems of immigration have been reduced, and this is the type of debate. Everywhere else we really demand expert consultations, data, percentages. I don't understand what's awkward about knowing where our money is going. I did not receive an answer from the Minister, and Mr Hakkarainen received no reply from the Finns — we did not receive an answer today when it was coming. But I do not know then, I find it very interesting that questions cannot be answered. As far as veteran money is concerned, as Mr Kankaanniemi has said, this is being taken care of. In order to maintain this joint statement previously made by Parliament, I think that this is all right and to be supported in that sense, but, of course, as a bad side of this too — if you want to look for something bad here — it is only now taken up as an invention of the SDP party, even though this has in fact been the state of mind of the entire government in the past. In that way, at times — although only two years ago in this Parliament — one can somehow marvel at the amount of piety. You know, viewers, people, they're not stupid enough to remember nothing about what someone's ever done. Then it is a great thing — I do not know how the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party will react — that you have become a supporter of this proposal from the Finns of Elomaa on the removal of the disadvantage rate, at least Mr Heinonen said he was in favour of it. I don't know now if he's signed this bill that's been around here. That would be a great thing, because if we were to assume that the rest of the veterans of our wars would receive all the support and assistance without any difficulty, then this removal of the handicap would be one thing, and I hope the coalition will take that into account. As many people here said, this matter should have been dealt with already in the 60s and 80s. Well, I was born 68, I was young at the time, and the Finns came to Parliament with a big bang in 2011. In that sense, it would have been nice to have had this done once in a while. Somehow, here in Parliament, they expect time to take care of it. I also think that the representative of the Finns Party, Mr Savio, has made a good point about this tax table, which I would also ask the parliamentary groups of the government parties to look at. When you look at pension income in particular, the higher the income here, the greater the reduction in taxes, as Mr Savio had done well, the EUR 1600 income comes to EUR 10 per year and EUR 480 per year pays less taxes. When, at the same time, expenses are increasing and we have these index cutters in pensions, then you don't have to be a powder inventor when you realize that the low-income and middle-income guy is in real trouble. We had all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups a few weeks ago, I think there was, the pensioners receiving the Eetu Association, and they left this kind of petition, and I was very pleased to remember when at the end one of the gentlemen said that when they spent all the time increasing, but when those incomes did not increase. Everyone understands that the pensioner’s income does not grow the same way as we working people who may have the opportunity to go to another job or somehow earn more. But expenditure is growing: real estate taxes are now planned to be raised and oil bills may rise. For example, the omakotiliitto had calculated that the oil bill would rise by EUR 45 per year. It may seem small to many, but if this kind of low income gets 10 euros more tax reduction but 45 euros more oil billing and they can't afford and have the opportunity to make any changes to the heating system, then it makes minus 35 euros, and that's really a big deal for many. I'll be a few times. When I was in a good store, I saw older people, and when they take the coins from it and count the last ones, everyone will feel bad about it. I have no doubt that the government will not understand this, but I would like it to be reflected in these figures. I want you to put another emphasis on this. If you really have a pension income of EUR 10,000, you could have left them without that tax reduction and targeted it on low and medium incomes — just like in real life, because it is a big emergency. We have a lot of pensioners and our own parents and grandparents. And I hope you'll reconsider, because there's time. All it requires is your common will and the government's proposal — yes, we support it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u159	Mr President! This question of veterans seems to be quite difficult for us Finns. Representative Meri there stated that in 1968 it would have been necessary to deal with veteran affairs. My war veteran father lived for over 90 years, and he lived a normal life. Most Finnish veterans may have lived a normal life. Invalids have been given disability support, veterans have received their own support — and now, of course, the need is emphasised with age. Even with regard to the mantra that it should have been handled in some way, you have to ask what it means in Finnish. There are always gaps in our social security system. There are also always situations, through normal social security, that it has not been possible to provide sufficient support for everyone. Mr Kari of the Social Democrats made a good speech in that regard earlier, on the basis of which I actually asked to speak. I think he approached this with just the right perspective. On the other hand, I think that this protest by the Social Democrats is a bit of an accident, as it were, thinking that this is not the case. But let us be happy and fight if we now want to fight for who has done what. I think that the veterans who follow the world going — very many of the veterans who are still alive — are smiling at our conversation. They know what has been going on, but the lack of mental support in the 60s to 70s has perhaps been the worst of the shortcomings, not so much the economic situation that we are talking about here. Mr. Speaker! When it looks like it's going to be two minutes, I'll go to the toilet, fix it, on the podium. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Yes, Mr President, not so much about this veteran issue, it is heading in a good direction, and let us all fight for it as long as we have work to do on it. But this economic policy. Representative Arhinmäki spoke earlier about purchasing power and tax relief. This is exactly what the government has done. One key aspect of improving competitiveness has been what remained, to put it mildly, now on the hands of the two midwives. The public sector took a bigger part of it. But tax relief and income from social taxation have in practice compensated for these losses. This is a big thing, where it has also been transferred to the purchasing power side, as it were, supported by society. There is either misunderstanding or deliberate misunderstanding in understanding this mechanism. After all, the starting point for us is that society is able to function and we are able to consume, including in this difficult economic situation to improve purchasing power. We are now ready to route the future growth that is beginning to sprout and to begin by saying that we should now be able to give back, as soon as possible, everything that may have been cut back during the previous government term and during this government term, for example, from education, research, development and so on — now it should be returned immediately. It doesn't just go this fast. In the state economy we need to look at the longer term, and the whole economic policy line of the Sipilä Government has just started from the need to reform the structures, we also have to save and we have to see how we can improve the functioning of society and how we can manage in even worse years. And for this we hope we need good bulldozers. We will have the 110 billion national debt next year, and that is just a large amount that someone will sometimes have to pay. In other words, the economic policy perspective that is now starting this budding growth, as it were, to share here with Parliament's decisions, is indeed flawed and would, of course, lead to poor results for Finland. In comparison with Sweden and Germany, Finland's competitiveness is still in need of these steels. The Prime Minister also opened this issue today in Question Time, and it is only that we have elements within which we are not yet able to cope in that international market. Through our exports, this Finnish economy is developing, and that is how we will be able to secure it, whether it be veteran money, education money or money needed by different states and societies. I think that economic policy is being made too difficult just by making it more complicated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u160	Mr President! It is good that the economy is growing, but as Mr Rossi said there, for how long? Sometimes you have to pay off this debt, and how long does it take for this kind of economic growth, what is it now, to pay off, so that there is no recession between it? I'm sure some economist can answer that question, but for decades anyway. There has been talk of veterans, and it is good that money has been made and the matter has been taken care of, as it should be done, but the veterans and the subsequent generation also paid for the war compensation. Everything that came out of that war — a terrible sum — had to be paid. How has this postwar generation been dealt with? My dad's like that. He was born 29. War compensations were paid, some eight years had to be paid to the Soviet Union. Now the situation is that he is retired: no memory at all. The only thing that has been remembered is medical cuts, and yet in that EUR 743 pension EUR 50 is quite a lot. That such a point of view, which I take: it is forgotten by the crowd in my opinion here. Similarly, all those retired already, even the generation — in what way taken into account? It's just that there's been some surgeries. So, yes, we have to take into account the age class that has cost us this war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u161	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen reminded us of an important point: what our parents and ancestors have done for us. Perhaps that is why I asked to speak again when Mr Rossi spoke about this normal social security. But maybe this is about these people being at war, and all you have to do is look at those films, it's just a thought. I don't know how we'd do there. And once they have built for us this welfare society and this democracy in which we now live, it is an extraordinary thing. In fact, I would have liked the government parties to respond to this when the representative of the centre, Mr Rossi, spoke about this distribution of sprouting growth. In my speech, I myself stressed, as Mr Savio stressed, that tax reductions in pension income could have been made in another way. It's a zero-sum game, and then it would have been more weighted there for the low- and middle-income. That is not cutting off any budding growth, but justice, as I said in my example, that if you receive an additional pension of EUR 10 a year or you receive almost EUR 500, that is a huge difference, especially when you already have a much bigger pension. I would have liked an answer to that: how do you respond to it? It is not eating growth, but, rather, supporting people’s daily lives and compensating for these very cuts. That is why I would like to remind you, representatives of the government parties, that you should bring the costs of immigration, because it is also in your interest that we know those amounts, and then we can discuss them on the basis of facts. Today I listened to the fact that we were told that what you basic Finns are saying about immigration. Well, here's a question you have to ask for until it comes. I don't understand why you can't bring it in here if you can't talk about it, you can't bring it out, and you can't bring it back to 1 to 1.5 billion, what's going on, but you can't tell it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u162	Mr President! Even from the postwar generation, in the way that at that time 400,000 Karelians were colonized here, but this was not the immigration that is now harmful immigration. At the time, Finland needed a workforce and it was a labour force. The cost of immigration, which I asked about — let me be more specific: the cost of the problem of immigration. The right immigration is driven by a market economy. On market terms, there will certainly be a skilled workforce in the workplace, because it is going after the job. This is going to cost us a lot of money and we cannot even give an answer as to how much it costs and so on. The taboo question after all. And then there's these Karelians. They cannot be compared at all to the immigration that is currently in place. If compared, they went to berry fields, went to work in the woods, built houses, did what the Thais, Ukrainians, Russians in Finland are doing now. Unfortunately, there are no Iraqis on the berry fields, there are no Afghans there, there are no Somalis, even though they have been in this country for 25 years, there are no such things. I believe that this should be raised and the costs that Mr Meri has said. And it's not racism. It's not hate talk. It's realism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u163	Mr President! I will now make my final contribution to this point in any case. Even in the direction of the government, Mr Meri asked about these measures. A guarantee pension is one of those. You can always say what is little and what is a lot, but I can see that the government has the right heart. What we can afford at any time will, of course, regulate our situation quite far. Then, on the question of the cost of immigration, I quite agree with you: yes, we need to find out how much it costs. Neither the refugee situation nor the asylum-seekers' issue, and the cost of immigration on this side as a whole, must be anything more than that. After all, Migri has now paid these to different centres, and I am sure that here, when this whole wave of migration to Finland reached a certain point, there has been a situation in which development has been out of control. With regard to economic matters, things have gone a long way beyond what has been paid for, and then later we looked at what was really needed there and how it has been managed. Well, it's been dictated by the situation, but it's starting to get structured and we can get on with it. As far as those mentioned by Mr Hakkarainen, including those who moved from Somalia to Finland in the early 1990s, I have met many of them who have been employed as taxi drivers, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u164	Mr President! The representative, Mr Rossi, raised the issue of the increases made by this government in guarantee pensions. They have already been made a few times. It is a good development in itself that these lowest-income pensioners will then at least be able to earn some income with this income. But, of course, raising the guarantee pension will not help those who receive these earnings-related pensions who are above the limit of this increased guarantee pension. However, many of them have made very long careers in low-paid employment and, in practice, it does not necessarily have a much higher pension than this guarantee pension is and will continue to be. From their point of view, we should also strive for a fair tax policy, given that, as has now been pointed out here, there will be virtually no tax reductions for small, EUR 1000, or even a little larger, occupational pensions. On the other hand, the increase in the property tax that has now been envisaged — the government is proposing, among other things, increases in the lower limits. In our view, these increases in the lower limits should certainly be forgotten. In the Committee on Finance, the government and the government parties should still consider whether these lower limits should be abolished in terms of real estate tax rates. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Ross for expressing her support for the Finnish people that, in our time in the government programme, the call for the total cost of immigration to be determined is really important both in terms of costs and morals. I hope that Mr Rossi will take the message to the chairman of his party, Prime Minister Sipilä, that he will speed up this cost statement very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u168	Mr President! I am not going to prolong this debate, but as much as there have now been a couple of forces in the opposition, perhaps that is what I am assessing here. Otherwise, this amending budget is of a very technical nature and you have not given rise to the need for any actual proposals from the opposition parties. First of all, this proposal by the Social Democrats on veteran rehabilitation: This is very much the same as the line in the committee's report, and there is, of course, no problem in voting in favour of this position. I understand that there has been a debate here in the Chamber about the fact that there has been a real attempt to put things right for this year, but indeed the wording is quite good. But then, as far as this left-wing union is concerned, when it has been important for the Christian Democrats that this balancing of state finances remains at the centre of the budget, it could be said that in the sense that now that the Finnish economy has finally got its nose up, I do not see the need for us now to make changes in this amending budget because we now have better revenue than planned. Instead, for next year's budget, the Christian Democrats have made their own budget initiatives in line with their own alternative budget, and then we will highlight how we would really like to invest more in basic security, education and welfare services — which is something that you, too, are putting forward — and there is a different policy from that of the government for the coming year. And especially then we are concerned about the position of families with children. Here's my position on these ponies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u169	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 5 October 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u170	Värderade Talman! Mr President! Vi blev på älft för en vecka sedan när vi debatterade den arv viktiga frågan ar i salen, och det är säkert på sin plats att lite repetera vad det handlar om och varför det är viktigt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u171	Mr President! A week ago I was unable to attend when this bill was launched, and I am pleased that the time was running out and this week we will continue, because this is a very important bill. I have now written a few columns of this in the papers of my own region. There the regional hospitals of Iisalme and Varkaus are typical examples of well-functioning, efficient regional hospitals that the government now has, is said in quotation marks, putting down under this anesthesia condition. Indeed, as Mr Henriksson, the first signatory of this initiative, said, has been prepared with the reform of the Health Care Act, and this condition for surgery requiring anesthetics has become the condition that it can only take place in hospitals with basic health care and special medical emergency services. This design leads to the maintenance of a wide network of services in the area of university hospitals, while outside these areas day surgery requiring anesthetics and other activities will be concentrated in central hospitals. Indeed, these well-functioning, efficient and regionally important hospitals are in the darkest places in our country, but it is quite interesting that there are, for example, two regional hospitals in northern Savo that have just served both on the Upper Savo side and then also, in the southern part of northern Savo, and the centralisation of patients with these hospitals in Kuopio has at the moment led to chaos in KYS. This, of course, will also inevitably lead to the deterioration of these other conditions in these hospitals. It will then inevitably have these spill-over effects on other outpatient activities. Even in Iisalmi, ear, nose, throat, internal diseases, surgery, gynaecology — all of these have its own spill-over effects. Indeed, as mentioned here by the representative, there are situations in which a restless patient might need light anesthesia during the procedure, and these measures are no longer possible. In addition to Kuopio, I have heard that in Turku the joint emergency unit has been blocked.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u176	Mr President! With 30 years of experience in the administration of the regional hospital and in a couple of periods as chairman of the board, as chairman of the council, and so on, I will deal with this bill, in which I have signed my name quite deliberately. This is a question of seeking savings through centralisation in the negotiations on the Government Programme, and one of the means of concentration has now been precisely to remove the surgical activity that is taking place under anesthesia from regional hospitals. For this purpose, the Health Care Act has been adopted here in Parliament at the end of last year and came into force at the beginning of this year. So this is justified as a savings law, but if we look at the consequences of this, the overall economic impact on the economy will certainly be negative. Now that the operating capacity of regional hospitals is removed, it is more than 10% of the total capacity, respectively, there will be no more central hospitals, and it is already visible, as Mrs Essayah said here, in Kuopio, but I also know very well that it is visible in Turku. It has been visible for quite a long time, even though not all of these transfers have been made. For example, the person who broke his wrist at Ypäjä had to take a taxi back and forth to the Turku University Hospital four times before he could be taken to the Central Hospital — four times before that — for a distance of nearly 100 kilometres. In other words, financially, this type of solution will certainly not be saved, given that the costs at the regional hospital level are very minimal compared to the costs of the central hospital and the university hospital. Forssa regional hospital makes 40% cheaper than Kanta-Häme central hospital and 70% cheaper than Turku university central hospital, which I understand very well because the equipment of these central hospitals is quite different. The question is, what happens? The lines of surgery are getting longer, and that too is a national economic loss, because there are probably people in the queue who are working, although I know that quite a few cuts through occupational health care are being directed elsewhere today. In Forssa, the situation started with the fact that when hospital districts were formed from the beginning of 1991, our regional hospital then became part of the hospital district of Kanta-Häme. However, there was a shortage of doctors in the hospital district and there was a threat that good surgeons working in us would be moving to the central hospital in Kanta-Häme. So we were threatened by our service level at the regional hospital falling and correspondingly transferring staff to Kanta-Häme. So we made a decision, at the beginning of 2000 we took our regional hospital out of the hospital district and put the regional hospital and the primary health care union together, and that has been an excellent solution. We have evidence of the results over a period of 16 years of the way in which savings are made when you do not have to go to a special hospital line when you are a joint municipal authority to get a referral from basic health care first. We have a person who will see which one of the clients belongs to, and that way we can get right to the treatment. There are no lines. We have had surgery and 26 specialist clinics because we have the head of the joint municipal authority Markku Puro built this model on the principle of "doctor moving, patients moving less", and then the cost of society is also considerably lower. We have spent years in THL statistics on health care costs among the first three in the kingdom, which means that we have evidence. You will probably imagine that this social welfare reform now under construction and the related amendment to the Health Care Act will hit us the most, so to speak, directly driving the Forssa model down. We had this integration for 16 years, and there is concrete evidence that it really saves, but, as we know, now that we are working on social welfare reform, integration has been abandoned. They've taken over all the other values, unfortunately. Mr President! Artificial joint surgery is ideal for regional hospitals. If a little had been looked at at the Swedish model, it is precisely the fact that, at the highest level, those cuts are not made, but in the average level, and it is represented in Finland by the regional hospital level. In other words, this reform has been directly prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health as a civil servant, and the name of this person has already been mentioned here, whose vision is that there will be only 12 central hospitals in Finland in the future. He has said it himself to me: all he needs is 12 central hospitals. In other words, even the six existing central hospitals are, in the opinion of this rapporteur, too much, there are no regional hospitals at all, at least in surgical operations where anesthesia is needed. In other words, the concentration policy has been the starting point in the ministry, and apparently there has been little lack of political guidance, because the conditions of will have been so central to what the official has had. For example, in the case of joint surgery, our hospital is an excellent example. In Forssa, there are quite a few people who go to Forssa for surgery because we do not have queues — very short queues, access to care is flexible and secure, and the surgeries are exemplary. But now, from the beginning of next year, our hospital's surgery will cease as well. That is why I also asked for this speech when last week, as a result of the second event, I was unable to make it clear that I wanted to correct the fact that the Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has read the papers of the Kanta-Häme region and has argued here that 'it was a pleasure to read today in the press that in the Kanta-Häme area, where these changes have caused great preoccupation, the Forssa regional hospital and the Hämeenlinna people have reached an agreement on the division of work and the estimate is that only four nurse posts need to be transferred to Hämeenlinna'. I would therefore like to make it clear that it is only the agreement on what we are going to transfer to the Central Hospital of Kanta-Häme. Nothing has been agreed or decided on what remains for us, what may come for us from somewhere else. This is the so-called unilateral information which has been going on in our region for quite a long time. For certain reasons, an image has been created that there is no other choice but to go to Kanta-Häme. We were supposed to do a joint venture with Pihlajalinna, but it was then knocked down, the politicians lacked the courage to do so. And now, at the hospital in Forssa, you will soon have to wonder, for example, what we are doing in the surgical ward. Until now, the stress of that surgical department has been precisely determined by the extent to which we are being operated on and operated on. Day surgeons don't need no department. So this text, which has, of course, been found in the Forssa newspaper, is one-sided and I would therefore like to correct it here in the parliamentary minutes. We know if anything is coming for us, at most not until the end of the year. The busiest point from the point of view of Kanta-Häme Central Hospital was to agree immediately what we are now moving under the Health Care Act. And of course it was easy to settle, because it is the law that defines what is being transferred from us. However, it is quite descriptive that the head of the Hospital District of Kanta-Häme filed a complaint, a complaint, with the Regional State Administrative Agency, demanding clarification that what the Health Care Act means for the hospital in Forssa. This complaint was made at the time we were negotiating a joint venture. In other words, this pressure has been rather intense because of the lack of patients in Kanta-Häme Central Hospital last year. So this is also a question of wanting to influence where these patient flows will go in the future. But freedom of choice ensures that customers will choose in the future. I am very sad that the Forssa model is being driven down this way, and that is why I have put my name on this initiative. Let us now work together to make further changes to this entry into force. I really hope and know that Minister Saarikko will follow very closely in the future, which is the effect of concentration, which has already been realised in the TYKS and in Kuopio. Human lives are at stake, patient safety is at stake, and ultimately it is also the responsibility of the ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u177	Well, at this point, when there are so few speeches, let's go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u178	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I am going to continue this amazement and to sum up this debate on a number of questions: I wonder if the government parties have been thinking about this all the way to the end when we concentrate and concentrate all the surgery on these on-call hospitals alone. As has been said here, day surgery is currently being performed with good results by several regional hospitals and also by private hospitals. The number of surgeries will hardly decrease in the future, quite the opposite. How can central hospitals manage all operations without long queues? Is it reasonable to carry people over long distances for surgery? Has there been an increased risk of hospital bacterial infections? And who takes the ultimate responsibility for patient safety? These are the questions that have already been raised here and I stand behind them and I am in favour of this bill being adopted here in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u179	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! There was a very clear speech from Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, who very clearly pointed out what is behind this: here is the savings behind it. It is not for the best interests of the patient, it is not for us to think that we have equal services across the country, it is for us to want to find savings. I dare say that the savings that are being sought in this way will not be achieved and achieved in this way. On the contrary, this can be far worse. As Mrs Anttila also pointed out, there has apparently been a hard preparation of officials. But the centre is now in charge of this country, and it is true that the centre-run government is, of course, also responsible for this bill, there is no way out of it. I would also have asked Mrs Anttila if she had stayed here, how she now sees what is happening within the government. At least it is very unclear to me what the Centre and the Coalition Party have agreed on this weekend — apparently they do not know what they have agreed on. But at least we know that if this is taken through, as is now thought, this will cause quite a lot of damage both on the patient side and in the region. It is quite incomprehensible that the centre, which is a party that should be concerned about the whole country and the welfare of the country, is now drawing a line of concentration of these things, where there is no head or tail. Then I could say that I myself have been involved in municipal policy for 20 years. There is a hospital in Pietarsaari that has been standing for over a hundred years. Local democracy has allowed us to decide what we are doing in our own hospital and, once we have received the hospital districts, we have also been able to decide in a democratic order within the hospital district what is being done where. Now this social welfare reform is taking away not only the authority of the municipalities but also the power of the regions, because that power is now ending up in the Ministry of Finance, as far as money is concerned, and then in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, as far as it is concerned, what can be done in any hospital. This will lead to a great democratic deficit and will also undermine credibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u180	Mr President! I asked to speak again when I listened to Mr Anttila's speech. Indeed, it has already been heard from that weekend’s meeting of government parties that integration is now deteriorating with these new policies. Representative Anttila told us how the regional hospital has already been done, whether he said, for 15 or 16 years, such good integration, which now weakens because we are going on this kind of centralisation path. In that sense, one can only agree with those who would like to know more about what has been agreed this weekend. Obviously, it is somewhat unclear there, even within the government, because an extension to this aspect of freedom of choice has still been requested. There were indeed six downtown MPs in those signatories, if I were to look at them. I think there was a signature on the assembly too. Perhaps this is just about the fact that these people who actually come from that area, where there are well-functioning regional hospitals, who know that these distances will then increase dramatically in those areas, and have already seen how it will cause patient congestion, are genuinely concerned about this trend. Yes, I must agree with Mr Henriksson's surprise that now that we have the centre of the Prime Minister's Party, this kind of concentration on these university hospitals and central hospitals seems very strange. Yes, at least in North Savo, where the centre is a powerful party, the people are terribly confused that this kind of thing is happening during this reign. Yes, they are really surprised how this is possible. These wonders can only be shared by yourself. Let us hope that, while we still have the opportunity to change, this will be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u181	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u182	Mr President! In Amurinlinna, the President of the City of Tampere, Finlayson's working residences were written by an Unknown Soldier, or a War novel. Today, at this very moment, when we are having a debate, the third film version of that novel is premiered. Why am I bringing this up? An unknown soldier is a typical example of art, both as a film form, as a literary form and as a stage art form, which in many ways unites the Finnish people. Originally antiwar, even in a book written in pacifist form, many who think in another way can be quoted. The brothers that appear in it are part of the Finnish folklore. Mr President! This year Finland’s independence is 100 years old, and one of the key signs of an independent state and nation is that we have diverse art and culture. Art and culture create unity, but, on the other hand, it raises problems and shortcomings, stimulates debate and emotions. Every civilised state must ensure that art has space and opportunities, including in economic terms. At the time the Unknown Soldier, or War novel, was written, it was still done in the workhouse while working during the day. Its success made it possible to focus on writing a significant series of three parts of Väinö Linna. Although the Unknown Soldier brought the income that made it possible to write here under the North Star, most of our successful, well-known and respected artists do not have the opportunity to focus solely on making art. It must also be remembered that the measure of art is never the amount of economic good it produces. There are many forms of art that can never produce economic good for the author directly, but they are of enormous importance to society. That is why it is important to support art. And one form of support for art is the State Artist Grant. They employ over 600 artists each year — but this is only about 3% of the country’s artistic community. The artist grant is not large, less than EUR 1700 per month, for which compulsory pension and accident insurance contributions are paid. If we then see how these are distributed, a total of 294 scholarships were awarded this autumn, beginning at the beginning of 2018, i.e. next year. There were more than 2,500 applicants, i.e. one in nine applicants was able to receive an artist grant for a shorter or longer period. The most difficult way to get a scholarship was for visual art and multi-art, where only one out of twelve applicants received grants. If you look at the age distribution, one in six of all grant recipients was young, i.e. under 35 years of age. This is also one of the problems: it is difficult to obtain grants, especially in the early stages of a career. However, although such few can receive scholarships — of course, over the years many more have been able to receive than these figures tell us when the grantees vary, and the figure is not large — these are very important in order to make art possible. Many artists, successful and appreciated, have had to change their fields because of their difficulties in making a living. In addition to the low number of scholarships, the income of artists is weakened by other factors, such as the reduction of regular monthly paid work in art institutions. Of course, artists’ grants are not the only way to support art and culture in Finland. Other concrete means include, for example, the arrangement that guarantees the remuneration of artists for both the presentation of works and the work to be done for the exhibition in state-funded museums under the Swedish MU agreement, and this is progressing, which is a good thing. Simplifying and improving the pension provision of artists would be important. Taxation should be made more flexible to meet the challenges posed by irregular incomes. Unemployment benefit for self-employed workers should be improved. Here are a few concrete examples of what else we could do. It is also essential that the public sector, both the state and the municipalities, but also the private side provide artists with job opportunities in accordance with the principle of percentage art, because the best thing is that art is visible, art is noticed, art is accessible to all, not only those who seek it, but they run into it. Mr President! In this bill, I propose to increase the number of artist grants. Why should this be done? In fact, even telling us how few artists, how few applicants, are able to receive an artist grant, tells us why. If we think about celebrating the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence this year, what better time would it be to improve the ability of artists to make art? In the Government's draft budget, EUR 11069000 has been budgeted for next year. This bill does not seek clouds from the sky but a moderate increase in the number of artist grants, so that some could receive more artist grants. It would be an important indication that Finnish society, we in Parliament appreciate the important role artists play in creating a nation and Finland during the centenary of independence. In this bill, I propose that the number of state artistic grants be increased by 30. This would mean an increase of some EUR 610000 in appropriations. I have also made a corresponding draft budget, and I really hope that this is something that is not significant in economic terms, but could be one of the things that could be done when the Committee on Education and the Committee on Budgets first considered next year's budget. It would be one fine handout from this Parliament to Finnish art and culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u183	Mr President! One of the hallmarks of a civilised society is how well it cares for its creators and artists. Art is an extremely important part of society and an evolving society. In addition, I believe that the former Minister for Culture should always agree with the other former Minister for Culture, and this is definitely the case here, so I personally warmly support the initiative taken by Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u184	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The debate begins — the first signatory of the initiative, Mrs Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u185	Mr President! I think I am the first and only signatory of the initiative, but nevertheless I am here to speak — or perhaps for that very reason. Mr President! As we know, major measures have been taken to balance Finland's central government finances years ago. Expenditure has been cut, it always hurts, and total taxation has remained high. Over the past few years, and perhaps even after the financial crisis, both taxes on earned income and capital income have been increased, as have taxes on alcohol, tobacco and energy, including these. The increase in VAT a few years ago has also played an important fiscal role, perhaps especially now that domestic consumption is increasing. At the same time, tax deductions have been carefully reviewed over the last few years. The long, almost sacred, downgrading of mortgages was addressed, and now it is gradually decreasing. The right to deduct from voluntary pension savings contributions has also been reduced. The household allowance was first reduced, then slightly increased, but the level of the deduction is still lower than in 2011, for example, and it has always had a share of EUR 100. Years ago, the right to deduct was abolished, for example, from the purchase of spectacles, and a list of these tax deductions, which over the years have either been cut, completely removed or reduced by the introduction of the own contribution, could continue. In the interests of consistency, as well as as as one element of the balancing of central government finances, it is justified that the remaining fully deductible and therefore fully tax-deductible gains are also reviewed with the same critical eye. In my own budget initiative, I have proposed that the tax deduction of social partners' contributions should be EUR 100. This would apply both to employees' contributions to ay organisations and to company contributions to employers' organisations for which the contribution would be EUR 500. At present, therefore, membership fees are fully tax deductible. This own contribution would retain the basis of this deduction and the underlying idea, but would still provide additional tax revenue needed for the public sector cashier. According to the Ministry of Finance, the current full tax deduction right means that the State will lose approximately EUR 200 million in tax revenue per year. According to the VM, the provision of the EUR 100 and EUR 500 own resources would generate at least 75 million more tax revenues, including 25 million for the state, 45 million for municipalities and 5 million for the church. In a situation where the State will continue to borrow 3 billion more in the next year, where interest payments on sovereign debt alone will cost EUR 2300 per minute and where the magic limit for total debt of EUR 100 billion has already been exceeded, we must be able to continue to make difficult decisions. They have already been made and, unfortunately, more are ahead. On the tax side, this would mean, among other things, that there can no longer be very many holy, fully tax-deductible cows blocking the path towards balanced public finances. Every small brook is an important and part of a larger whole in which the objective is to achieve balanced public finances — probably in the long term, but still.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u186	Mr President! Only part of the union membership fee goes to the unemployment fund. For example, if the union’s membership fee is 1.75% of the member’s salary, the unemployment fund’s share is only 0.65%. However, the majority of people belong to trade unions only because of unemployment benefit. They think that the earnings-related unemployment benefit they receive consists entirely of paying a certain percentage of their salary to unions. But this is not really the case. Only members of the unemployment funds can earn earnings, which is something that the ay stores, of course, hold onto with claws and teeth. Although almost all employed persons pay unemployment insurance contributions covering just under 60% of costs, the central government share is just under 40% and the cashiers only 5% to 6%. Thus, 95% of the income security is currently funded from the state budget and statutory unemployment insurance contributions paid by each employee and also by the employer, regardless of whether they belong to any trade union. Thus, most of the membership fees collected by the unions remain for the unions’ own use, for example to support the election activities of different parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u187	Mr President! Mr Wallin's position we know — as he said, he has often taken this initiative. But I am surprised that the Finns, who have spoken out for the workers and the workers, want to attack the trade unions. Trade unions are those who provide legal advice and help in disputes, and that is precisely what these contributions are used for. Contrary to what Mr Lehto said, in fact it is exactly the opposite. Many people imagine that it is a trade union when they are part of the Loimaa cash register, and are amazed and terrified when it comes to the situation that you need help and advice in conflict situations and there is no union that supports you. The unions also negotiate on behalf of all workers — those who are members of the union and those who are not members of the union — on working conditions, wage increases and other aspects of working life. The fact that you are not a member of a trade union but enjoy all the benefits of a trade union is a form of free travel. Mr President! Above all, however, I took the floor because Mrs Wallin spoke of a magical debt limit of EUR 100 billion. I must congratulate the head of the business delegation, Risto E. J. Penttilä, for having created the impression that 100 billion is somehow a magical border in one direction or another. In fact, sovereign debt should not be assessed in absolute terms, but in relation to GDP. In the run-up to the last election, business started the debt clock and the media swallowed the bait with hooks so that in the election debate the debt clock was in the back. People think the debt is growing steadily. In fact, this 100 billion limit has been exceeded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u189	Mr President! Yes, the Finns also want to, and I want to be on the side of the workers themselves. Mr Arhinmäki must have noticed from my speech that I did not support or object to the bill, I was just bringing things up. I myself have been a member of the Union for years, and I must say, yes, there is a left-wing -- a SDP-oriented Metal Association and there were always oppressing members of the rest of the party. It was striking how there the parties massed within the unions that activity along the corporations. In my opinion, there should not be party politics as strongly as there is today, and no matter how blatantly supported in the various elections, who belongs to a different party: if he belongs to the left or the SDP, he will be granted an election grant through the beach. For example, a member of the other party gets nothing even if he is doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u190	Mr President! Many people have such a misconception that somehow there are only certain political groups in the unions. In fact, there will be elections in the unions where these groups will be built on the outcome of the elections. I remember how the Finns of Finland, led by Matti Putkonen, spokesperson Lehto referred to as his own union. So, what happened? When the candidates were nominated, the workers then saw on the floor that who they are, who will then stand up for the job in front of the real place. In that sense, whenever we talk about the fact that certain parties are in strong unions, that depends on who the members of the Union vote democratically. The second thing I can say about the Left Alliance, when I have been chairman of the Party and I know how much support we have received from the trade unions and, of course, how much support we have for ourselves: perhaps this is a little mythical size in terms of the number of candidates or parties supported by the trade unions. Perhaps there is more on the Socialist side, but for us it has been very limited. I would even like the unions to be able to give a little more support to those parties that are also defending the unions. But it is within the democratic decision-making framework of the union.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u191	Mr President! I didn't know Christopher E.J. Penttilä had invented this term in his day. I thought it was my invention, but I'm handing over all the copyright to whoever it belongs to. Of course, it is quite true that government borrowing varies and the total amount of debt varies, but if you take as a starting point, for example, before the financial crisis in 2007, that is, the last intact year before the financial crisis, the curve has shown directly up what comes with additional debt and the total amount of debt, and it is now well over 100 billion — I think 107 at the moment — which is equivalent to 48 % of GDP, but yet the absolute amount of debt is interesting in the sense that it has to be paid off. The bad thing about debt is that it does not go away on its own, but must consistently strive to at least reduce it. It will only be reduced in such a way that the State will be able to pay it with the income generated either by saving government expenditure or by generating additional revenue in the state treasury, or of course these two can be combined. Now, my legislative initiative is also about the fact that the State will have more tax revenue in the cash register, but, above all, about a consistent tax policy as regards tax deduction rights. In that case, neither can there be the sacred cows represented today by this full right to deduct ay contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u192	Mr President! Even before I go on to discuss the next side of the A-talk as to whether we can afford an increase in wages, I will simply say that the ratio of debt to GDP is essential and not absolute. When our economy grows — as it has now happened — the GDP ratio falls, and that is what is also being measured internationally. The economy and the household should not be compared, but, of course, even if people have 300,000 mortgages and a million homes, they are likely to be more wealthy than people who do not have a mortgage but do not have a home. Mr President! We all believe that central government finances must be in good shape and, above all, by increasing revenue, higher employment rates and higher taxes. But there is no point in aiming for the government to be debt-free. I think it is the only country in Ceausescu Romania that was debt-free, and it may not have been the best country for the citizens. If we are thinking, for example, of Norway, whose oil reserves are very significant and oil reserves contain many times the amount of euros compared to our annual budget, for example, then the Norwegian State also owes money. The governments act in such a way that old debts are paid off and new ones are taken over. For example, now that interest rates are down, Great Britain paid off its debts in the 19th century, because now it was sensible to do so. At the moment, when interest rates are down, for example, our debt management costs are falling when we pay off old debts with higher interest rates,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u193	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-12-ps-103.u194	Mr President! Indeed, I am presenting our legislative initiative as a law amending Articles 11 and 12 of the Law on improving the competitiveness of maritime vessels. Mr President! The large number of business and business subsidies and the multi-generational use of subsidies have led to a wide-ranging social debate and, although business subsidies can be considered justified in certain circumstances, they have been considered, inter alia, to be liable to distort competition. From the point of view of government debt too, a critical examination of tax subsidies is absolutely necessary, as Mr Wall has just said when he presented his own bill. This bill, which I am now presenting, has also been taken to create savings. Business subsidies may be justified if the externalities of the business supported are positive for society and business activities would not arise without support. On the other hand, from the point of view of competition neutrality, it is very important that business should not be supported by crowding out more efficient companies in a competitive market. Business subsidies are also, as a rule, temporary and discretionary. However, subsidies to shipping from companies are in many respects exceptional. They are, in fact, permanent and target the basic business activities of the companies to be supported. According to a study by the University of Tampere this year, the total amount of aid for passenger shipping is as high as EUR 250 million per year. One example of the aid enjoyed by passenger shipping is the aid paid to shipowners for the crew costs of passenger ships. It is significant in size, but not the largest aid received by passenger shipping. According to this report from the University of Tampere, the amount of crew costs for passenger shipping is estimated at approximately EUR 39 million per year. This is even a very significant expenditure item on the scale of the state budget, and as with all other expenditure items this period has been critically examined, this item should also be viewed very critically in the state's debt still at around EUR 3 billion per year. Mr President! This legislative initiative we have taken concerns, therefore, cutting the crew costs of passenger shipping — not in its entirety, but by halving this aid. All personnel working on board the vessel shall be covered by the crew cost allowance, regardless of whether they belong to, for example, deck and machinery personnel or household staff. This aid for crew costs has been aimed at a system such as net pay, which exempts shipowners from paying the social costs of their employees and the part of their salary that is to be withheld. Mr President! By means of crew cost support, the shipowners will be refunded to the shipowners the retention of the wages of the seamen and the pension contribution and the share of the accident insurance contribution provided for in the employer’s Marine Pensions Act. From 2004 onwards, this temporary crew cost subsidy for passenger ships was made permanent from 2009. In practice, a large part of the aid for passenger shipping flows to the shareholders of the shipowners in the form of dividends. In addition to the increase in central government expenditure, the adverse effects of the aid include the weakened competitive position of tourism and restaurant companies in the mainland, thereby reducing their employment conditions. This latter, in particular, has given rise to strong expert criticism. In order to reduce government expenditure and improve the competitiveness of the tourism and restaurant sector, it would be appropriate, in the opinion of the signatories, to halve the crew costs of passenger shipping as soon as possible. This measure would not have a material impact on security of supply, for example, because the support for commercial shipping would not be affected by this legislative initiative. Mr President! With this bill we are also aiming to improve the competitiveness of the tourism and restaurant sector, in addition to reducing government spending. At the same time, it is quite likely that government income tax and VAT revenue will increase as the turnover of tourism and restaurant companies on the mainland grows, while, of course, employment in the sector will also increase most likely. In addition to this legislative initiative, I have taken a budget initiative to estimate a reduction in central government expenditure of around EUR 19.5 million. Mr President! In view of the above, we signatories to the bill propose that Article 11 of the Law on improving the competitiveness of maritime vessels A new paragraph 2 is added and a new paragraph 2 is added to Article 12 of the same law, both of which are of the same content and would in future be as follows: "However, only half of the amount referred to
