ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u2	Congressman Kantola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u3	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has given its assessment of the overall structure of the government's regional and social reform. The main objective of the Sote reform in this and last period has been to ensure adequate and equal services for citizens throughout Finland. Today, however, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its unanimous opinion that, on the contrary, the obligation of incorporation in a government proposal jeopardises the equality of citizens in access to adequate services. Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, the obligation of incorporation must be removed from the bill. My question is, where did this obligation of incorporation come from in the bill? The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal refers to the fact that it is based on political considerations. What was this political objective which, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, jeopardised the realisation of the fundamental rights of citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u4	Mr President! The objective of the Sote reform is indeed to safeguard and ensure equal services for citizens throughout Finland and also to create medicines for a sustainability gap. From these points of view, reform has been carried out and it is being carried through. Freedom of choice, which is part of this entity, is specifically intended for people to be able to access the service smoothly so that they can influence the choice of the service provider from which they apply. The fact that it was decided to take this method of incorporation as a tool for the exercise of freedom of choice came from the claim and vision of competition authorities, experts, and, in addition, a large number of legal professionals have been used in this preparation, and that was the point of view. Now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, and then it is up to us to find freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u6	Mr President! In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it is not possible to implement the reform proposed by the government in a controlled manner within the planned timetable so that the fundamental rights of citizens are not compromised. It therefore seems incomprehensible that, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs continued to hold an information conference, the government announced that it would carry out a social welfare reform on 1 January 2019 and that freedom of choice was part of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u9	Minister Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u10	Mr President! Mr Kantola has had weeks to participate in the work of the Constitutional Committee, and it is an excellent thing that the Constitutional Committee has achieved its own massive task today, here and now, to assess the whole of the government's proposal. Since we have had some four hours in the government to evaluate your work, today, here and now it is absolutely impossible to give a precise timetable for further detailed preparation. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u11	Mr President! According to the news, this Question Time is your last minister, Minister Rehula. I thank you for the endurance you have shown in the face of all the government's crises around this social reform. One of the key points here is that the government has opted for this market model, that services are exported to markets and companies. Now it is in the Constitutional Committee, and clearly it has been put at a standstill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u12	Mr President! There are also representatives in this Chamber who are pleased that 10 July is the day when the minister changes. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u15	Mr President! These problems with the government's proposal for social services are not just constitutional; the Minister is right. The big risks are also related to the increase in costs, which many experts warn about. In other words, if these cost risks are realised, it is very possible that, for example, customer charges for low incomes will rise. But in addition to that, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has today spoken about the constitutional problems of this system of freedom of choice. This is not only about compulsory companying, but indeed also about this timetable. And I have now been surprised by Minister Rehula's reply in this regard, when the Constitutional Committee has very clearly said and warned that this too tight timetable may cause a crisis for the whole of Finnish social and health care, and has stated that if the system of freedom of choice is introduced it must be phased in, and on the same day the government will send a statement stating that the original timetable will be adhered to and this reform will be carried out at once. What is this government schedule now? On the basis of Minister Rehula's reply, he remained:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u16	Mr President! 1.1.2019 is the day when there is a law adopted by Parliament, which includes a whole set of social and health care organisation, provincial administration, many other matters related to the provincial administration, social welfare and health care organisation and the legislation on freedom of choice. It's the one we're on our way to. That has been said out loud by the government today. I have not had time to study and the preparatory organisation has not had time to study what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in detail, for example with regard to this implementation and the timetable for implementation. It has stated that this timetable for implementation is a constitutional problem, it is behind the order of regulation. But in our preparation at this point we will read that statement. Thank you for that statement, it will give the signs of progress — just as was said and told at the committee press conference — for further preparation, and that follow-up work will begin early tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u17	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, all eight parliamentary parties worked together to prepare for social reform, but a common solution was found which, however, did not go through the Constitutional Committee as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u18	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the joint draft collided with Article 121 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u21	Mr President! All I want to say now is that this social security reform has not hit any wall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, during this Question Time, three parliamentary groups have the same question as the first, the Group of the SDP, the Left Alliance and the KD, all three. That is why I give the first speeches to the representatives of these groups. — And now, Mr Räsänen, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u23	Mr President! It has to be said today that, unfortunately, many valuable months have been lost when the government has strictly adhered to this political package, which has included both the provincial administration and then this compulsory incorporation, even though it has been well known that companies cannot be transferred to the exercise of public authority and to the tasks of the public authorities. I myself have been in that parliamentary monitoring group, and these problems have been well known, which has now been highlighted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this situation, I am particularly concerned about this question of timetables, which seems rather vague at the moment at the head of the government. I would ask you: would it not be reasonable, in view of these costs and also in view of our ict problems, that freedom of choice should be achieved in order to achieve this integration between basic health care and special care under the same administration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u24	Congressman, that minute was pretty brisk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u25	Mr President! There's a schedule pressure. As soon as these matters behind the articles of the Constitution have been assessed, clear cases will be reported on the board as soon as further steps are taken. Well, then, there are other points in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which must now be carefully examined in order to make an overall assessment of these aspects, which the supplementary proposal must contain. The pressure is on the government. This is where the next step must hit the plank. It is very common in the legislative work that, when dealing with law as well as law, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has comments on matters, content, even those behind the order of things. I do not consider this to be exceptional at all, but rather normal. Well, then let's get a grip on what's going to happen to integration in the future, and how we're going to make a change about this corporateization, so that we can be able to tell you in real life and at the same time,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u26	Mr President! Under-Secretary of State Pöysti said in the interview that it would go to November if we wanted to prepare this in the right way. He said that there are a lot of regulations there now that are changing with the abolition of this compulsory company, which must now go through exactly and then change the content of the freedom of choice legislation. I think it is clear that, after such a big change, we also need a consultation in the autumn, which will certainly lead to that November. Under-Secretary of State Pöysti, in his interview with the Democrat, stated that regional elections could only be held if regional reform and freedom of choice legislation were separated from each other, leading to regional elections being held. Now my question is: what will the government do in this regard? This is of interest to many people who are considering candidacy,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u27	Mr President! As has already been said here and the government itself has said, we will continue to stick to this objective, 2019 the whole reform into force. In this respect, it would of course be important and objective and forward-looking to be able to hold regional elections in accordance with what is involved in the provincial law and the law of enforcement in the Government's proposal here in Parliament. Now that we have received this opinion a few hours ago, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we also need to assess the need for changes in the extent to which these changes are being made and, in the same context, to assess this entire timetable. We all know and recognise that the timetable for the coming months will be very tight, but if we start with these original objectives, that the reform will enter into force in 2019, then it would be ambitious and appropriate for the elections to be held in January 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u28	Mr President! There has been talk of timetable pressures here, and yet this is a question of the reform of the century and careful preparation of matters is extremely important. The committee's hearing made it very clear that EU law does not require incorporation and this is a political choice. The Committee's opinion therefore states that "this freedom of choice model could have meant a substantial reduction in the national decision-making powers regarding the structures of health care and social services", and the committee recommends that EU authorities be consulted in the future that this should not happen. I would like to ask you whether you intend to ensure that, in the new freedom of choice model, we do not expose our services to a broad interpretation of EU law, which, at its worst, means that investment protection and competition law provisions would not necessarily need to be introduced. How does the government ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u29	Mr President! This change has been prepared in this country for more than ten years. We have travelled to a situation where there are two opinions from the Constitutional Committee from the previous parliamentary term, which have contributed to this preparation. Secondly, during the 25 months of this parliamentary term — of course this is always an assessment — this preparation has been very open to the extent that, in so far as matters have come to the attention of the government to be made public, to be reported on. Mr Meri read the quote of the government's proposal, which is somewhat similar now in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In our own proposal, we have very openly assessed the impact of the government. Amongst other things, there are estimates of the risks that would have been posed by the competition law situation in the incorporation model,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u30	Mr President! Not every parliamentary term can go to the fact that each government, in turn, tries to undermine the work of the previous parliamentary term only by listening to its own stakeholders. Otherwise, we will go into the same crises over and over again, as we have seen today. This is no longer a question of different parties or the basis of government, it is a question of the whole parliament and of people's confidence in our ability to solve major challenges. I appeal to the government and ask the Prime Minister, Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, whether the government is prepared to carry out the social welfare reform together with the opposition and experts, building on the original objectives of the reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u31	Mr President! The original objectives of the reform are still valid and can be found in the Government's proposals, which are discussed by Parliament. Secondly, you claim here that the motion is in crisis. Even after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the key elements that are freedom of choice, ways and models of social and health care, integrated approach, control and so on and so on remain in place. The main objectives of the reform are still valid. There are no points which would require changes to the government's supplementary proposal. The amendments required will be made with regard to the supplementary proposal. Whoever's better or who's made mistakes before or today... These key elements exist, have been, have been, and have been, and previous preparatory work has also been important in recent months.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u33	Mr President! It is interesting to have this debate when it often comes to commenting that this is now the case with the Constitution. At the end of the last period, I was in the Social Steering Group and also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I say that this reform did not come across it but opened the way for progress to be made in this reform. But the time ran out, there was a new election, and there was no opportunity to make a supplementary motion. Now this large package has been before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and almost 80 pages long has come, and now the government is being asked what you are doing on the basis of this opinion. Four hours ago, this was done. It is natural for the government to take a thorough look and draw conclusions, but I ask now: What capacity is there in the ministries to prepare for these reforms? Have we been able to anticipate whether or not mental and material resources are that way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u34	Mr President! After all, this reform concerns eight ministries in all, and the main ministries here are the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Finance. Of course, as is the common practice in this type of reform, the ministries have also worked closely with the committees and have already provided their responses to this first large package of regional reform, the Act on the organisation of social and health services and also to these financial laws. In other words, this cooperation and awareness of what is involved in this whole as well as in freedom of choice may have made it possible to anticipate things like this, and even the government's proposal, which is now being discussed here, has already been known in the past about the points that need re-evaluation. Both next week and tomorrow
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u35	Värderade Talman! Grundlagsutskottet har suttit över Hundra timmar och tagit ställning, jobbat med den raus stora reformen, och har i dag kommit med sitt utlåtande. Ett viktigt arbete. Nu är frågan den, om regeringen på några timmar vinnit sutta sig in i den kohtamatiken. Man får en lite werklig Bild. Regeringen trycker snabbt på enterknappen, reformen ska vara i kraft 1.1.2019. Samtidigt säger man att man ändå inte har bekat sig med grundlagsutskottets utlåtande tillräckligt. Här finns en mycket stor diskrepans, och ruus finns allvarliga problemm i förslaget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u36	Mr President! For my part, I can say that I have read the vigour, I have read the last few paragraphs with the essentials.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u38	Mr President! Work on that timetable will start early tomorrow morning, and next week we will have a list of issues that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will require for the supplementary proposal that will be submitted to Parliament. From the government's point of view, so that sufficient time is left for Parliament's work and that it is possible to move this whole entity forward, of course we need as careful and as good a job as possible, as thorough a preparation as possible, but I know that quite a few people are currently waiting for that supplementary proposal to come and that law to come. We hope that next week will be able to tell us these steps.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u39	Mr President! As I said, four hours ago there was an information conference on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Ruhula, you have just said in Question Time that you have read the thrust of the opinion and the final few paragraphs. Nevertheless, the government gave a press release in the middle of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Is it a small mistake that you are not familiar with this statement until you inform us, and you are informing us that there is no problem and that there is a timetable, that the social reform is progressing, that freedom of choice is maintained, and even from China the Prime Minister is keeping track?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u42	Mr President! There were quite a few questions — usually to make it easier for the minister to answer when there are a lot of questions. [Laughter] One essential point: if anyone here claims that the government believes that, following the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — you used these words — we say that there would be no problem here if someone says that we are denying what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is saying, then it is not quite true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u43	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u44	Mr President! This supplementary presentation, when prepared, is quite clear that it must follow the principles of good lawmaking. This work by the Constitutional Committee and by the special committees provides an excellent basis for it, and I believe that this work can be done with all the information that is now available on this issue. There has hardly been so much consultation of experts on any matter as around the reform of social services and freedom of choice. There has hardly been as much parliamentary debate as there has been here. As far as parliamentaryism is concerned, I think that this is parliamentaryism at best, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken a look at the proposal, put it on one side in the new preparation in practice, made comments on it, which will be taken into account in the further preparation, followed by a supplementary proposal from the government and will be dealt with carefully again by Parliament. That's parliamentaryism, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u45	As far as this is concerned, I would like to add a few additional questions to Mr Kivelä and Mr Lindtman and then move on to the following questions. Almost 40 minutes have passed on this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u46	President! In various parts of the Republic, valuable work has been done in the provinces to prepare for social and regional reform for a long time. How do you see, Mr Vehviläinen and Mr Ruhula, now that this opinion of the Constitutional Committee has finally been produced after a tough twist, is this now making things easier and, as it were, encouraging the provinces to make more effort to prepare themselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u47	Mr President! We think it is very important for the government to continue the well-started preparatory work in the provinces. It is partly supported by the fact that tomorrow Parliament will have an amending budget here, which will also have additional funding for this year's preparation, including the progress of these freedom of choice pilots. In addition to this statement today on the part of the government, we have stated that we consider it particularly important in this situation that the poor do not drop in the provinces, but are determined to push ahead with this preparation in the timetable that has been envisaged so far and in the direction of:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u48	My final supplementary question, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u49	Mr President! Here we should thank and acknowledge the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all its members who, despite strong political pressure, reached a unanimous opinion in a situation where even government ministers commented on the work in the middle of the process. [Antti Kaikkonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u50	I can see that there are ministers in charge of Ruhula, right? Minister Rehula responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u51	Mr President! The main objectives of this reform and change are unchanged. After the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the elements which are the means, the instruments for implementing freedom of choice — the customer voucher, the personal budget, the oral health care model and the social welfare centre — will continue to be the elements for implementing freedom of choice, even after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Government is clearly in its target schedule on 1 January 2019, when this entity will enter into force. What is the result of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: we are reading
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u52	Next question, Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u53	Mr President! More than 400,000 people live in poverty in Finland. According to the latest statistics, more than 100,000 children live in low income families. Regardless of what has led to this, the situation is a disgrace to the civilised state. Last January, the Government appointed Professor Juho Saare's Working Party on Poverty to find new solutions to the problems of work and unemployment, housing, over-indebtedness and inequality. The Board of Directors gave the working group until the end of March 2018. In practice, this may mean that the Sipilä government, if it is usually able to stand up, will not have much time to carry out the work of the working group. I would like to ask the minister responsible: will the government speed up the studies so that at least some of its proposals can be implemented from the beginning of 2018?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u54	Mr President! This is a task force set up by the Prime Minister, which is currently working, and, of course, this would certainly also require the Prime Minister himself to be present. This is a cross-administrative group. I believe that this is working just now on these questions, which the representative raised. The kind of information that the schedule would be changing here and now, I don't have. But I have a strong faith in the work of this working group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u55	Mr President! I am now somewhat sorry that the Minister's reply is generous. We all know that the task force's mandate includes many things that have already been well explained in the past. If an interim report on these already completed measures were to be made next autumn, the government could already include them in next year's budget or, at the latest, in the spring spending limits decision. The only question here is political will. Economic growth would pave the way for this, and poverty reduction would also increase economic growth. The government’s own savings decisions and payment increases will certainly also contribute to the revision. Do you therefore have a value base for tackling this inequality, or will the government leave the painful problems to the next government and forget this section of the population? And if you have good will, what are the first concrete means now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u56	Mr President! I think it tells us of the government's value base that this extensive and thorough work aimed at seeking medicines for inequality has begun. What is currently being done to reduce inequality in the country is that we are constantly working to improve the employment situation and to balance public finances. Getting as many people as possible to work is the best remedy for inequality, poverty. The fact that we have the highest possible employment rate means that we have as broad, strong tax revenues as possible, with which we can maintain equal, good services, equals in which we combat inequality. But whether we can find a way to make things easier for the most vulnerable, we will then look at what is a reserve and what we can do. But, of course, this prevention of inequality is central to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u57	Mr President! The government has appointed an excellent professor, Juho Saare, to lead this work. In my view, the problem is that the task is to do it in a cost-neutral way. When I really think about this child poverty, one detail is that now that children, young people, are going to work in the summer, I would think, and Social Democrats, I saw that, for example, the summer money made by children would not reduce the income support of parents. Of course, this increase in the level of early childhood education, when we are so behind other countries — 70% in early childhood education in other Nordic countries, 90% to 95% in Europe — would be a measure to increase equality and human capital. What do you think of this cost neutrality, for example, in relation to the two three examples I raised?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u58	The Deputy Prime Minister seems to be asking for the floor at the same time as some other ministers. That is why I will give the Prime Minister's deputy the floor, unless the Minister decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u59	Thank you, Mr President! Mr Gustafsson took good examples, such as early childhood education, and I would like to point out immediately that the government has decided to reduce early childhood education fees by up to EUR 70 million for the lowest income families. That is the answer to the very question you have asked. It is also a great choice of values that in a situation where we do not have much to share, when we actually owe another 5 billion this year, we chose those low-income families. I think this is a good example of the fact that these issues are constantly being considered and invested where the need is so great.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u61	Next question, representative plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u62	Mr President! The government was in crisis, scattered and reassembled. The reason was the values. According to the government, the values are not for sale. However, the values are weighed in deeds. The government has refused to correct a law that violates human rights in a fundamental way. In Finland, the transhumane who strengthens his legal sex must prove that he is infertile and submit to long, humiliating medical studies. In practice, we have a law that obliges people to sterilise, unlike in other Nordic countries. A new translation that respects human rights would already be completed. It was prepared during the last government term in consultation with experts at the Ministry. All the government has to do is take that bill from its desk and bring it to Parliament. So I ask Minister Rehula: will the government bring a new translation into Parliament that respects human rights and self-determination?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u63	Mr President! The Government works together, and the matters that are brought to Parliament are solved together. In this respect, the preparatory minister has a responsibility to prepare legislation in such a way that the conditions for a joint agreement are in place. As far as I am concerned as the Minister of State, I have been prepared to take this matter forward. The law of the last parliamentary term has been found on the shelf of the ministry — or it was taken there. It has been refined in such a way that it can be brought to the attention of Parliament, but the government is a team action, and in these respects the joint decisions of the government will determine the way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u64	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u65	Mr President! A child born in Finland almost daily is not recognised by the law of another parent. If a mother dies in childbirth, the child is an orphan. One parent has to adopt his own child. The process is long and the legal status of the child is unclear. The recognition of the parenthood of another mother at the maternity clinic would safeguard the child’s family relations from the beginning of life. This problem of human rights could also be easily addressed. Once again, a new maternity law was prepared in the Ministry of Justice during the last term of government, which would safeguard the status of children born to female couples. However, the Sipilä Government has also refused to bring maternity law to Parliament, although it has broad support among those who defend children's rights. My question is: will the government guarantee equal rights for every child born to their parents?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u66	Mr President! As Minister Rehula has just said, the Minister will implement a list of various projects agreed by the parties, even if they have been prepared during the previous parliamentary term. So, according to the program agreed together, we go and we stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u67	Mr President! In the case of a citizens' initiative, it must also be looked at through the institution of the citizens' initiative, rather than through its content. Citizens' initiatives will make no difference if they do not bring the report here in the Chamber, so that the people can get the opinion of Parliament on the matter that has been presented to them. But the question began to transist. It is very sad to hear that this government does not want to change the law in such a way as to guarantee everyone the right to self-determination and immunity. The demand for reproductive inability to implement human rights is a flagrant violation of human rights, which has also been pointed out to Finland on the UN side. When the government does not have the courage to carry out an overall reform, you will be pleased to know that Members of Parliament have submitted a bill on this need for sterilisation. Are you prepared to act at least on this single blatant violation of human rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u68	Mr President! This is a government Question Time and, of course, the Prime Minister is ultimately responsible for the way in which the government operates. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u69	Mr President! It is as if it is implied that there are unequal laws in Finland, because the maternity law, for example, is a question of what the citizens' initiative says, that a child could have two mothers as guardians, one of whom may even be a man from his or her gender. In that sense, this citizens' initiative as a law does not improve the rights of the child, but, above all, the right of the child to father and mother,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u72	Minister Rehula, if you have a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u73	Mr President! There were claims. On the other hand, one key claim relates to what we have to rely on in our legislative work on international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u76	Next question, Congressman Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u77	Mr President! For a little while under the dirt. The largest scandium in Europe found by the Geolo-Gia Research Centre in the district of Rautalamm in northern Savo is estimated to be worth tens of billions of euros. The University of Eastern Finland is currently studying the recovery and recovery of Scandium in a profitable and environmentally friendly way, and the results are promising. Overall, the importance of this huge occurrence for Finland, its economy, its business activities, the regional economy, a great many things is very significant. Mr President! So I ask Minister Lintilä: what can the Finnish State do, either within the framework of current legislation or otherwise to promote the extractive industry and thus improve the national economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u78	Mr President! It is very interesting this scandium deposit there at Rautalampi. As such, it is an interesting material to lighten metals, for example, as an aluminium blender. At the moment, there is no primary production in the world of such scandium, i.e. it is in secondary flows, and the problem with scandium is that we do not currently have a process to produce it directly. As the questioner, Mr Rossi, said, the University of Eastern Finland is developing a model for this, but of course it is still very long. Questions often arise as to how to make use of these nationally. There will be corporate taxes, of course, jobs and so forth, and yes, we have also had a prospect project on GTK's side, which is specifically aimed at setting up a junior company that would be able to maximise the promising deposits that have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u79	Next question, Mr Adler-creutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u80	Mr President, ärade talman! Medborgarorganisationerna har en viktig roll i integrationen av invandrare, och det är viktigt att de får töd för sitt viktiga arbete.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u81	Mr President! Yeah, let's get this straight. So this was a question of discretionary grants, and the special assistant, the park, had a discussion with our officials. They made this kind of base presentation, could they look at what these grants have in a way eaten up by what these communities have done with this money, i.e. what results have been obtained from this. Then he suggested whether about half, or less than 50 percent, of these could be cut. From this arose then between them such a discussion that officials considered this a bad presentation, when a special assistant contacted me that now is a problem. Well, I said that we would have this debate in my room, and there was a debate quite properly about what these arguments would be. They reasoned from their own point of view on how this could go, and that led to the outcome of the final decision. I am surprised that there would have been some reason to be outraged by this kind of outrage in my ears, and yesterday I made sure of that official's views. He agreed with me: a proper debate followed by this final decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u82	Next question, Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u83	Mr President! If you look at the economic situation in Finland, you should look at Hypo's confidence figures. Industrial confidence is highest since 2008 in services since September 2006. As far as consumers are concerned, confidence is the second highest in history and even in construction it is 10 percentage points higher than usual. There has been a turnaround in the economy. If the opposition is to be believed, then whenever something bad happens in the economy, it is the government's fault, so that, I suppose, when good things happen, it is the government's fault. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: how do you assess the economic development of the next two years? Which way is Finland going?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u85	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u86	Mr President! I present the activity report of Kela’s delegates for 2016. It's important. Maybe it's not quite a good time. Mr President! I would like to start by saying that, according to the Constitution, Kela is a self-employed social security institution under the control of Parliament, which has its own finances and administration, and is supervised by the 12 elected representatives appointed by the Parliament. In other words, we delegates supervise the administration and operations of Kela, taking into account the quality and availability of the services of the institution. Very often, especially the new Members of Parliament, Mr President, have asked what the Kela delegates are doing, and it is good that the report is being carefully examined. During the reporting year, the delegates met nine times and the bureau met 16 times. Kela’s delegates monitor Kela’s operations. We will review the financial situation of Kela and its various benefit systems, the development of operating expenses, the length of time spent on applying for benefits, the key figures describing the working community and staff, as well as current issues. The auditor presents his report to the delegates on a quarterly basis. A comprehensive list of issues dealt with by the delegates is available on the page of the report under discussion. Perhaps it can be said in detail that a new Director-General was elected for Kela during the reporting year. According to the Kela Act, Kela's delegates will submit a proposal for the directors and the actual appointment will then be made by the President of the Republic. As the new CEO, Elli Aaltonen started, and she really started her duties at the beginning of this year. The year 2016 was the year of changes and preparation for new changes in Kela. The benefit expenses of social security managed by Kela are large. This is EUR 14 billion. The operating costs are 430 million. It is essential to note that the objective has been to keep Kela's operating expenditure below 3%, and this has also been the case during the reporting year, i.e. operating expenditure remained at 2.9%. During the year 6686 there were 6686 employees in Kela, which is indeed over 700 more than one year earlier, and this increase in the number of staff is significant. Preparing for basic income support at the end of the year is the main factor. Kela does a good job, and Kela's services affect almost everyone in Finland. Kela’s delegates also monitor the key figures of employees’ well-being at work. They have been good, although slightly weaker than in the previous year. The feeling of stress and urgency has increased, and it is important that the delegates also follow these indicators. But perhaps as one figure, it is good to say that almost 90% of the Kela employees really felt that Kela was a good place to work, and this is important. The delegates receive a lot of questions from representatives of Parliament, and applications in particular come up with questions. It is good to note that the report of Kela’s delegates states that almost 64 per cent of Kela’s applications were made online and 97 per cent of Kela’s employees found the service to be friendly. In other words, customer surveys show that Kela's services are trusted and get good grades. Kela's service network is something that MPs and delegates follow because the service network is the one that will then be displayed there for people who do not use the services online. Kela’s service network included 182 offices at the end of the year, and it can be said that the service network has been considered comprehensive. The key issue that has been followed by the delegates is the development of Kela's administration and operations, which means that Kela has undergone a major organisational reform in previous years and has been prepared for the social welfare reform. Kela has abolished its regional government, reduced insurance circles. There have been 25 of them, now there are 5 insurance circles, which means Kela has made its organisation more agile. At the beginning of this year, all of Kela's profit units have also been updated, and there are only 6 left. What the delegates are following in particular is how this major, major reform, which took place during the time of President Hyssälä, comes into the services of ordinary Finns, and it must of course be seen as an improvement in the services. Briefly, regarding the deadlines for passing applications, which are followed by delegates by type of benefit and by insurance districts, it has to be said to Kela that, in gratitude, all the performance targets set in Kela were excellent during the reporting year. Mr President, the direct reimbursement procedure for taxi journeys saved EUR 16 million in the operating year and Kela is constantly looking for ways to provide more services for Finns with less euros. in the reform of social welfare and health care, in the preparation of its legislation, Kela has been actively involved, and Kela's Board of Directors and Management have stated that: Kela really wants to help the reform succeed and is in favour of increasing customer choice in social and health services. The Kela does indeed provide comprehensive information on the customer's social and health care and social security, and it is important that this information is moving freely and securely when the reform is carried out. During the reporting year, a great deal of Kela’s resources have gone to helping and participating in the development of social welfare reform and in particular in the development of ict systems. Mr President! The income support project does not belong to this reporting year, but since the Ombudsman has pointed out and this has received a lot of feedback, I would say here that when the granting and payment of basic income support was transferred to Kela at the beginning of 2017, the applications became congested at the beginning of January, and then Kela's delegates said that the Kelan Government must do everything in order to reach the legal status. At that time, the Kela Government granted more resources for granting income support, and then during April the legal status was reached. As this situation was very serious and the Ombudsman pointed out this, Kela's delegates required an internal audit report on the payment and preparation of basic income support. That report has been made and we have dealt with it, but because of the scale and importance of the matter, we also asked for an external evaluation of it. We will then have an external evaluation of it in the autumn and then more about it in next year's report. President! Although time is exceeded, I would like to say that it is appropriate to evaluate the legislation on the Social Insurance Institution. The Kela Bureau of Deputies has already asked the management of Kela to submit proposals on how the legislation on Kela should be reformed, and we will deal with this matter next autumn. As Chairman of Kela's delegation, I will also invite the chairmen of the parliamentary groups to discuss how we could develop legislation on the Social Insurance Institution and ensure that the supervision and other legislation on Kela is up to date, because Kela's role has changed a great deal over time, as well as funding for Kela. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will go through this report carefully and also give feedback on whether the report is sufficiently informative. It has been renewed during this period, and we, the delegates from Kela, received thanks for the last report, but I hope that an evaluation will also be carried out on this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u87	The representative remained well in the time limit for the presentation, which is therefore 15 minutes — thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u88	Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution is an independent body governed by public law entrusted with important administrative tasks and public authority. The purpose of Kela's operations is to ensure the livelihood of the population, promote health and support independent survival. Kela's values are 'appreciating', 'comprehensive', 'cooperative' and'renewal'. The important question in terms of implementation concerns the length of time during which applications are to be made. The Annual Activity Report states that the delegates at their meetings have received a report on the average time spent passing the various Kela benefits applications. Target dates have also been set for applications arriving in Kela, where applications must be settled. Based on the activity report, the average lead times are well realised. On the other hand, there is also constant talk of Kela’s traffic jams, and these can be seen where people encounter them, i.e. in Kela’s offices. There will be a lot of messages and feedback about what you could do when you have to wait there for so long to get to the clerk’s office. I think this is a very problematic issue. I would like to raise a few good points from this report which I was able to read and note. Among other things, the treatment periods for disability benefits have been significantly reduced, and this is a very important issue. One quarter of the previous period has been reduced in 2016 because they have been up to 40 days, and it is indeed too long to wait. It is good to hear from the regular service that e-prescriptions are things that improve patient safety, work well, but there are sometimes breaks that we can usually read through the public that e-prescriptions are not in operation and then something happens, so that we can hope for smooth, good services in the future. The report is a good one, and I have certainly not been able to read it entirely, but I will get to know it and our committee will then deal with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u89	Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa, the President-in-Office of the Council, has already gone through this activity report very thoroughly, but from the point of view of the delegate, I will repeat and raise a few points. Yes, Kela’s delegates met nine times during the past year. At the General Assembly, the Director General usually gives a comprehensive overview of Kela’s activities. Other management is also involved in general meetings. Different benefits payments amounted to over EUR 14 billion in 2016, they grew by 0.2 per cent from the previous year's level. Kela's operating expenses were EUR 430 million and the number of employees was nearly 7,000. Operating expenses increased by 3 per cent, and one of the reasons was the increase in personnel due to the transfer of basic income support from municipalities to Kela. The current challenge is to refine cooperation with municipal social services. A major challenge in the near future is also the integration of the system into a tight basic security network. Of course, duplication of activities and bureaucracy must be reduced. The amount of general housing allowance grew by as much as 17.8 per cent from the level of the previous year. It is also paid to more people who work. Also significant is the fact that one out of every other 860,000 people receiving housing allowance are under 25 years of age. In euros, as much as EUR 1.9 billion is spoken of in the case of housing allowance. This is clearly an issue that all public decision-making bodies need to address seriously. It is not sustainable for so many Finns to have to increase housing allowance, and the share of employees in the beneficiaries shows a harsh language about the price of housing. Office work is still common in Kela's services, although in general there has been an increase in online activity. Similarly, phone contact is common. A large number of customers do not have the opportunity to shop online, which must also continue to be taken into account in the organisation of services. The satisfaction rate of office service was well over 90 per cent, i.e. hat list for Kela's customer service employees. However, an improvement was needed to assess the overall situation as well as information. Transfer of basic income support to Kela: We have all received a great deal of feedback this spring, especially from delegates, on the fact that many people had a lot of delays in accessing support and that it caused major problems for citizens. However, this issue has already been put on the better track at the latest, and compensation will also be paid to those who experienced major problems with this delay in aid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u90	Mr President! I admit that I have only been browsing this report, I have not been able to read this very carefully yet, but when I looked at this very broad document, I drew attention to a few things. Firstly, I am really concerned about the reduction in rehabilitation appropriations. The number of persons receiving rehabilitation services has decreased by 2.2 per cent from the previous year, and in particular the number of rehabilitations in discretionary rehabilitation has decreased. The scope of discretionary rehabilitation includes, for example, various rehabilitation and adaptation training courses, neuropsychological rehabilitation, rehabilitation to improve the working and functional capacity of those in work and those returning to work, and rehabilitation aimed at young people with psychosocial problems, enabling them to continue, for example, studies that are interrupted or at risk of interruption. It is extremely worrying if these groups do not get the rehabilitation they need in due course because of the lack of resources. Another issue I drew attention to is the development of digital services in Kela. This is an excellent thing, the citizens give a lot of positive feedback about Kela's online services, and they have also become more user-friendly all the time. At the same time, however, we must remember that there are still many citizens in our society who are unable or unable to make use of digital services. For example, according to Statistics Finland, 65 per cent of those aged 74 to 89 and 25 per cent of those aged 65 to 75 have never used the Internet. This problem is not just a problem for the elderly. I am the chairman of a steering group in my own province of North Karelia for a job creation project, and this project has shown that 20% of unemployed people living in rural areas do not use the Internet at all, even though they are quite young people, 40% to 50% do simple limited things online independently or assisted and only 30% to 40% of their customers do all the things they need online. Adding to this the fact that we still have large areas where the Internet does not work at all, it is really important to take care of the services that happen face-to-face – this is still a challenge for Kela too, although it is good that these digital services are being developed. Mr President! I tried to find some information about Kela’s interpreting services in this report — it may be that due to a lack of time I did not read the report carefully enough. In previous years there has been a lot of misappropriation in interpreting services based on user feedback, and this feedback will continue to come. Since I found nothing in this report on this matter, I now just hope that things are moving in the right direction. But with the chairman of the delegates, Mr Sarkomaa, I hope that in some way you will be able to comment on this matter of interpretation services, because for some reason it always pops up at regular intervals and then there will be feedback that things are not working now. In conclusion, Kela deserves great thanks once again for its excellent research activities. Year after year, Kela's studies are timely and of high quality and should also be read by representatives, because they provide very important information about our social and health services and also about Kela's activities. All in all, thank you for this thorough report, and I will read this carefully from cover to cover. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u91	Mr President! Looking at this account of Kela’s delegates, this is a very good document. There are two points that I would like to draw attention to. The second is this increase in housing allowance expenditure: 17.8 per cent. Of course, this is not Kela's fault, but this system does have a built-in structural defect — it is said in the common language 'valuable fault'. So when we have this housing centered and we do a lot of work to make it focus, then here is the end result. We spend approximately EUR 2.3 billion this year on housing subsidies and most of it here in large cities. At the same time, the other expenses, income support and other expenses will increase, because they will then be customers of Kela to a large extent when the financial situation becomes more difficult. And if the interest rate goes up even a little bit, I dare not even think about what will happen to that percentage in that situation. In other words, this issue must be strongly addressed in order to make this housing support system accessible by some means so that people are cheaper to live in, and unfortunately there is no other way to do that than to develop the country more fairly. The concentration of everyone in one place leads to this very situation, which is economically unsustainable. Think of the situation where we have unemployment expenditure of up to EUR 7 billion, housing aid expenditure of over EUR 2 billion, we spend almost EUR 10 billion on the system that goes in a way — I do not say "loss" — for such self-inflicted headaches to a large extent. So this is something we should be able to catch up with effectively. There's a nut for the House to chew on. I hope that the committee will at least take a position on this in some way. The second is, then, this equal access to various services around Finland. After all, we have a country of long distances and this causes us to have service problems. — I will move to the speaking room when I have a few things to say. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u94	Mr President! Thank you for the extensive activity report. This year of Kela’s activities was a bad sign of these difficulties in the processing of income support applications. I hope something has been learned about that situation and its solution. As an individual figure, this increase in the general housing allowance mentioned in several speeches is 17.8 per cent and in absolute terms EUR 340 million. This is a huge amount of money, but especially as an increase on the old one. Of course, it pales, for example, alongside the cost of immigration, but the money is still large. I would therefore like this House, regardless of the party, to take this amount and its growth figures very seriously. However, we know that VVO, for example, paid extra millions of dividends. A cash-making machine has now been built to raise rents by rental companies owned by public interest entities and thus to increase housing allowance and to account for the huge profits as additional dividends to, for example, the trade union movement. I can understand if there is a bit of a soft attitude towards the solution to this problem on the left side of the Chamber, but it cannot go so far as to increase these costs by 20% a year. This shampoo will never stop forging money for its privileged owner if it is not stopped. Mr President! I would also like to add my thanks for the fact that Kela, in its report, takes the cyber and information security risks very seriously, that this has been raised as one of the four main risk areas for 2017. Kela provides electronic services that cannot fail to function, it is not an option. That is why their security is of paramount importance. To Mr Hoskonen, I would like to say that rather than fast broadband, it is the coverage of access that is more important for the operation of these Kela services and that the pages and services themselves are simple and clear to use. The speed of its broadband does not solve that much here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u95	Mr President! Indeed, we have gathered in Kela and received much information, as Mr Sarkomaa said. The Director-General's review will be held in Kela, and there will always be industry managers present, and we can ask them questions. There are so many people who put questions to us as delegates, but we do not know the individual things and then try to guide them forward and then find the right people — we do not know about the individual solutions of people and we cannot even know about the individual people’s matters, but we can learn about the general solutions. I looked at this staff situation and, as Mr Sarkomaa said, these indicators of well-being at work have fallen slightly. Last year I remember giving a speech about Kela being a very good job. I myself have for a long time been a supervisor, and I had not seen and do not consider these figures to be bad at all, but I believe that these reforms are one of the reasons for doing so at work. I also noticed that absenteeism has decreased. I must thank the staff of the Social Insurance Institution for this length of time, which they have done particularly during this year, which is after this report. But let us live in the real world, and I wonder how they have endured all this pressure. They must have received a lot of criticism, and I also understand those customers who are distressed when basic income support does not come. It has been a very difficult situation and it must be frustrating when people contact you. This must never happen to me again. In fact, that is why I have also been a little concerned about this social reform. I was thinking when the Constitutional Committee made the statement today that this transfer of Kela's basic income support must be an example to us that everything was thought to be all right — we Kela delegates were assured that everything was all right, everything worked out — and then it turned out the way it was. However, if the war is to shift the historic large services away from the municipalities, then we must be extremely careful, because this has already shown that it is not a good thing that without good planning and preparation things are moved. I was still looking at Kela’s well-being survey in the spring that there had been a decrease in working time too, but there have been good grades in personnel management, which means that the management is good. There, on a scale of 0 to 5 is personnel management and management received an average of 4.5, and that is a very good management estimate. I certainly hope that we will remember officials in all places. They make it possible to make this flexibility and make it happen. All of this is made possible by these hardworking people, who are often forgotten to thank. I also thank customers for their patience and that they have been subjected to this kind of pressure, to live perhaps without funds. I regret that — although I am not personally responsible, in a certain way I believe that Parliament should perhaps have been even more careful about this. We must learn from this that the timetables must be such that they can be implemented by the agencies. We cannot put legislation in place so that the machinery chokes on it and everything falls down. In fact, in view of the increase in these social aids, which Mr Mäkelä spoke about, I asked Minister Orpo last autumn because it would interfere with the tax treatment of these foundations and associations for this very reason that it is perceived to be unfair and, of course, it would generate revenue for the state. I received an answer that the Government Programme has set out the tax treatment of foundations and associations, but I am still waiting for it. I've never seen a project like this. That maybe it's not just the left side that wants to forget this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u96	Mr President! Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen brought up the interpreting service. Indeed, the Interpreting Service is certainly at the heart of this current report. There is a tendering process in progress, and the aim is indeed to develop an interpretation service for people with disabilities so that, for example, more customers can choose an interpreter suitable for themselves from the list of interpreters. Development work is being done, this is a very important issue. This is where Mr Hoskonen said about this online service and then about the network of offices. This is exactly how some people use the Internet, but it is quite clear that Kela must provide services for everyone. You can put applications on your phone and make a personal appointment. It is up to the delegates to ensure that every Finn can visit Kela. That is our job to monitor. Then, from this congestion, i.e. in the reporting year, the granting periods of benefits were well on schedule, but after this year's report this year, that basic income subsidy congested the payment. The councilmen followed it every week. We required action, and the government granted additional resources, and a legal state has been reached. We're still following it. What is important is that you can use the phone to get to Kela and the payment of income support is kept in good time. It is now in every insurance circle under that legal period. The staff should be grateful for this, so as chairman of the delegates, I would say that Kela's staff were stretched out, worked overtime, and that this matter was put in order and is still being closely monitored. Since this reform did not succeed as it was supposed to, we asked for an internal audit report. It has been obtained, and an external evaluation is also coming. Just as Mr Meri has said here, major reforms are coming, and that is why we wanted this external evaluation, so that we can learn from Kela, and I am sure that there will be messages in this House. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the government of the country and our parliamentarians must also see to it that when there are major legislative changes which require the Kela to change and implement its information systems, sufficient time must be given.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u97	Mr President! The processing times of applications are among the most important of Kela's matters. I would like to stress here the concern of the Finns of Finland that these applications will be dealt with quickly enough, because, even in that small time, the human economy will easily become very weak if those decisions do not come from Kela, and people have had to resort, for example, to quick-wipeing. In other words, these processing times must be invested and shortened once and for all. I have received feedback from voters about, for example, the length of processing of Kela’s sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance applications for them and the distress and difficulty when decisions are not made. The target period for these applications for sickness allowance and rehabilitation allowance is 21 days. On average it will take a couple of weeks to process them, but if a person moves to the rehabilitation allowance after the sickness allowance, a new treatment process will begin, and, at worst, the financial situation of a person will be very bad in that time, so I hope that Parliament will also take note of this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u98	Mr President! That's it. That's it. That's it. As a comment to Mr Tavio's good speech, now that basic income support is transferred to Kela's benefit, this problem of processing times is even more important than in the past, because in principle there is no longer anyone who would give the money. If that application is stuck there in Kela, it will take a long time to process it, or because of a lack of a small application it will come back to the applicant as a negative, then how can a person in such a situation who has no livelihood be able to act? Kela must take this new role into account as the payer of last-minute income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u99	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u100	Mr President! Criminals should be punished, not squealed. Punishments should be proper, not just a pat on the back and a little scolding. In Finland’s case law, it is clear that penalties for gross penalties should be increased. The prison sentence is an effective deterrent against crime. Imprisonment also plays a fundamental role in morals and law enforcement. Today, two thirds or even less of the sentence is released from prison sentences. Almost no one in Finland sits entirely in prison for which he has been sentenced. Who invented this modern system? The court will issue carefully thought-out prison sentences, but then no one will have to suffer them. The current system tends to undermine citizens' awareness of the length of time the sentenced person is actually in prison: you read in the paper that the rapist was sentenced to four years in prison, and then the truth is that the sentence is spent in prison for two years. What if the system were to come out of suffering the judgment that is given? Four years in prison would last four years, five years in prison would last five years, six years in prison would last... Well, you see what I mean. Punishment should be clear, public-conscious and transparent. Could supporters of the present system tell me, tell the Finns why four years of imprisonment should not last four years? Why shouldn't a five-year prison sentence be five years? If there is a desire to impose less severe penalties, what if, then, a direct less severe penalty is given? Don't pretend they're tougher than they really are. Mr President! I propose, with this bill, that prison sentences should be served as long as they have been issued, and this should at least be done in serious crimes. There's a line to be drawn. At least in serious crimes, you have to sit down. If, then, the prisoner behaves very well and by his actions assures us that he deserves to be released on parole, then such a thing can be granted — not as it is today, however, that in practice everyone is released for parole regardless of the offence that is behind it. Criminals should not be rewarded for nothing. Remember, a crime offends a victim. The offender, on the other hand, is not the victim of the crime; the victim has suffered from the crime. In Finnish society, there is no need for more painting and dreaming on the horizon; in Finland, there is a need for law and order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u101	Mr President! Mr Tavio's bill concerns an important issue. In my opinion, particularly in the case of violent crimes and rapes, the sentences should be stricter and the sentences should be fully sat. More effort should be made to prevent crime, and every effort should be made to help those convicted of crime to reach a narrow path. Too many of those sentenced to prison are guilty of another crime. According to Statistics Finland, in 2015, almost half of those serving prison sentences committed a repeat offence in the next three years. This is the message that in prisons efforts must be made to promote social integration once the sentence has been served. Of course, it would be in everyone's best interest not to end up in prison at all. Prison care is also very expensive for society. In addition to convictions, support activities are needed. Alcohol is involved in as many as four of the five violent crimes. For example, effective substance abuse policy and early help for drug addicts and drug addicts are ways of reducing the need to put people under prison walls.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u102	Mr President! One example of the incomprehensible legislative logic of previous legislators is that convictions for serious crimes will not be incarcerated until the end. We therefore propose an amendment of the law, which condemns the perpetrators of serious crimes to the full term of imprisonment in prison. From the criminal point of view, this Finnish model of probation is a joke of some kind. We have a release vending machine that requires only part of the sentence to be served and then paroled. However, if you are on probation guilty of crimes, you do not have to sit down for the rest of your sentence. Does this, as spoken, sound almost unintentionally comical? Therefore, this proposal is absolutely to be supported. In addition, it would also be important to get rid of the so - called reduction in penalties for a number of crimes and also of the fact that the offender’s first-time identity is renewed after certain years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u103	Mr President! Yes, there are sometimes glaring cases in public, and they should always become a reasonable and proportionate punishment. I myself wonder that when the court actually measures the penalty according to the criminal law, it does not take into account the very fact that a person sits in prison for a certain period of time, but is measured as if it were sitting in full, i.e. it is in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. Representative Mäkelä also raised this so-called concurence, which combines many types of crime and, so to speak, there will be a reduction in the amount of punishment in Finland. Here's the deal. I myself have often had to count them in court, and I must be very careful with them, and that is not in itself a good thing. I myself am thinking of this in such a way that we could have the possibility of a court to consider it and, in some way, to add it so that 'the court could', as far as I know in the United States, determine when, at the earliest, a person can be released on parole in that case. On the other hand, it must always be taken into account that gross crimes do exist, however... There is a gross form of action in all species, so that I myself would not quite extend this to everyone, but would actually leave the court with its discretion so that, in the individual case, the court would consider what is reasonable and then, of course, could apply for it for good conduct, change of life and many other reasons. You know, I could use a little of this on that ledge, but I wouldn't exactly look at it this categorically. But this is a good opening because people want to have this conversation. Now, after all, we have completed this judicial review, which may not have produced the desired result, so that a couple of years of important drafting time will now be wasted on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u104	Mr President! Thank you, representatives of Elomaa, Meri and Mäkelä, for taking a stand on our punishment policy and our way of judging those criminals. Representative Elomaa made a good point about the problem of repeat crime. Of course, there is no way out of it other than to try to get out of it by giving precisely that support, and there is certainly support for its integration into society. But the big problem in this particular case is that of these people who have recently been in the public eye, who, once released, are always guilty of, for example, a homicide. It is quite incomprehensible that Finland is the rule of law, which always allows the same person to commit homicide once he has been released. The question of human rights does come to mind: what is the human rights of ordinary people, the right to life — our greatest human right — if society lets such a person, already well-known, be released again and again to commit that crime over and over again? This is indeed quite a joke, as Mr Mäkelä said here about the system as in categorical weaknesses. What Mr Mäkelä also pointed out is that the first time a person is a renewable matter, I myself regard it as a rather ridiculous doctrine — I do not know who created it. But it must be remembered that the Finns of Peru have pushed this change quite strongly — it is a pity that it does not fit the modern government. And for Mrs Merelle, just a moment, I would like to say that her point of view is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u105	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u106	Mr President! There are many small entrepreneurs in Finland whose contribution is very important to our society. In the creative sectors, the share of small players is substantial. From there thousands of enterprising artists and artists are also struggling even with cultural professionals who reach an international level. Often it takes the right timing, the right content and a touch of luck to make a breakthrough. There are many entrepreneurs, and only a small part of the cultural job can be reached by pressing on the so-called jam pole and by the big dams. The operating conditions of entrepreneurs in the sector must be improved. It goes without saying that the Finnish cultural sector rests on these practical factors, so it is an incalculable matter. The purpose of my bill on tax reform for creative operators is to make more effective use of the economic potential of the creative sector and to improve the success of those involved by amending existing legislation. The current tax treatment of copyright benefits in Finland constitutes a growing competitiveness problem, as the income received by the author from his activities is considered the most common wage income, even if the activity is carried out under comparable conditions. There are cases where music makers, for example, have packed their belongings and ended up doing business abroad. In my bill, I propose a model in which the author would hand over his copyrights to his copyright organization to be managed in accordance with current practice. However, the author could direct the business result of the controlled company to the personal compensation received from the copyright association. A donation for the right to receive from the copyright organisation the remuneration accounts of the author would be subject to certain conditions of taxation. The reform would increase the incentive for creative work and create the conditions for the growth and development of the creative sector. Furthermore, I believe that the cost implications of the reform will be very positive in the long term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u107	Mr President! Mr Elomaa's initiative is good and worthy of support. Equal treatment for entrepreneurs in the creative sector compared to other small entrepreneurs is important, and I wondered how we are in this situation at the moment. However, after reading the initiative, it became clear that the problem could be eased by the proposed changes to the articles without having a major cost impact on society. It is clear that more employment and welfare impact in the creative sectors can be achieved by investing in incentives for work, and this can increase its incentive. I hope that the bill will move forward, because there are many signatories and, most importantly, across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u108	Mr President! Yes, there are signatories across party boundaries, so I wonder how it can be that only the Finns are in the hall now. But it's already nighttime. Yes, Finnish work and entrepreneurship come first. This, too, is an initiative which rightly aims to ensure that our competitiveness is in a state of excellence. If you look now at the neighbouring country Sweden, which is the great power of music, it is quite a miracle that here in Finland you would not want to treat artists in the same way in copyright taxation. All new sectors with digitalisation, i.e. large digital sectors in the mobile phone industry, and especially in the gaming industry, would benefit from the fact that the music industry and copyright with this model proposed by Elomaa would remain competitive and here at home and that the authors would not have to go abroad for tax reasons. So I hope that this bill will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u109	Mr President! I myself have signed this, and indeed, quite rightly, as has been said in that previous speech, there are many signatories here and across party boundaries. I always find it rather unfortunate that it is the limit of 100 in general, no matter how good an initiative is. This would be a bit like what can be done in the spirit of deregulation and probably with very small costs. It is true that such an artist is very easily equated with entrepreneurship, and, as Elomaa said in his speech, it is probably not appropriate for a person to have to move abroad for that reason. At least I respect people who can play, paint or do something like this. I can't do it myself. To speak in part, and let others judge whether I can even do it well. So I support this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-29-ps-79.u110	Mr President! I would like to thank the people of Finland Merta, Tavio and Mäkelä for being here at night, and you have made very wide-ranging and very fine speeches on the subject and on this bill and supported it. That I thank you very much — thank you!
