ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u1	On 9 February 2017, a doctor from Helsinki, Professor Pekka Puska, who, as a deputy from the constituency of Helsinki, has become a representative of Paula Lehtomäki, who has been released from office on 9 February 2017, has presented me with his proxy credentials and has taken up his duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. The ministers are already good at being on the ministerial stand. Next, I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u3	Congressman Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u4	Madam President! Yesterday, the SDP's initiative to get all young people a summer job was discussed in a good spirit and, first of all, we must thank the Prime Minister for taking this forward. But today we should stop at the stories and problems of the citizens about Posti's activities. 5-year-old Emmi's grandmother called and told her that she sent Emmi a to-do book and a sticker sheet that never got there. A gentleman from Salo, like many others, has said that he has paid several times for late payments when the bill has never arrived. An entrepreneur in Tampere advertising has said that the magazines to which he has sold his customers’ advertisements have not been distributed in time and is now threatened by the loss of income and customers. A young woman in her 20s told me that a job interview was never received and that she was sanctioned by the Employment Office and that there has been a great deal of struggle on this issue. This is just a handful of examples when the mail has not worked. [President MariaLohela : Representative of the Kymäläinen,nowonjoipastaja. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u8	Next, I would ask those Members who wish to ask supplementary questions of up to one minute's duration to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u9	Mr President! The post office has worked well in Finland for hundreds of years. 5-year-old Emmi's grandmother could have trusted the package to get through. In the delivery of the mail, these problems, which have occurred in abundance, have only begun to be addressed after FICORA presented a EUR 100000 penalty payment to Post. Finns have trusted Posti, and now that trust has been seriously weakened. Prime Minister Sipilä, yesterday Parliament was given a law forcing Post to open a competition in letter distribution, and this has given rise to a great deal of concern. How do you assess, as the Minister responsible for corporate governance, whether this increases or reduces the public's confidence that mail comes home every day?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u10	Madam President! Mail lives in a very difficult environment. The volume of letters drops by about 10 percent each year, and has had to adjust to this decreasing volume of letters and at the same time maintain the service level. I personally believe that this postal law, on which there was a referral debate yesterday, will improve the situation. It takes account not only of this digitalisation, but also of the changes in our habits in the way that we use the letter less and less as a means of communication, but also of the fact that, for example, the distribution of newspapers is ensured in sparsely populated areas for five days as it has been so far, in those areas where competition has been worse off.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u11	Mr President! After all, we have a system where the Postal Act is supervised by the Finnish Communications Agency, as it turned out here. As the Prime Minister said, the postal service has not gone according to how the legislation has been. And now, of course, the FICORA would be the one who should intervene. Can you tell us whether there are going to be any legislative changes if the Postal Act is amended, that FICORA will monitor more closely in the future that the mail goes as the decision-makers want?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u12	This is a matter for Minister Berner, but if Prime Minister Sipilä answers anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u13	Mr President! Indeed, the wish is that the affairs of the responsible minister should then be presented, but from the point of view of corporate governance, as I have said on many occasions, it is clear that Posti needs to improve its operations, and these shortcomings have been taken seriously by Posti, as many speakers have already said. As far as this control is concerned, it then belongs to the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u14	Madam President! In recent years, the public image of the post office has accumulated a lot of stains, including in the treatment and dismissal of staff, the degradation of the service and postal disruptions. We have experience of this, and we all get feedback from this field. No company's policy can rely on the endless weakening of services. How, Minister of Ownership Management, you see the role of Posti, for example. Ten years from now? What measures will be taken to stabilise the situation in Posti? And when it comes to Posti, which is actually wholly owned by the State, how do you see the government's claim in the Postal Act about Posti's obligation to sell address registers to other operators? Is this in the company's interest?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u15	Yes, first of all from this general situation: the postal service will deliver 99% of the letters on time, and these are, of course, individual cases, as we are talking about here. But you can't have them either. That's obvious. What is now being done in Post, with reference to the question of the representative, is to adapt to this great change that is going on. I think that the post office has been excellent at making this adjustment, looking for new business opportunities and new business activities, and has also gone into the new business. I think that Posti and the postal people have done an excellent job in this regard too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u16	Mr President! The mail has indeed spoken a lot here in the Chamber, and just today I received a telephone call from Kouvola — thank you only for having reached the customer by a letter I sent two weeks ago from this Parliament. This is the big problem that this schedule doesn't want to keep. The post office has purchased transport companies and has thus expanded its operations. I would like to ask the minister in question: is this Post's policy ideology in the right direction? Does Posti focus on important and important issues for the post office and for the customers when buying these transport companies and not on making sure that the letter goes home on time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u17	Mr President! If Posti were to focus solely on handing out letters, on this share of his business, then Posti would have a pretty bad future, especially in ten years’ time. The post office now has a broader view of this logistics environment, and it must then be able to go to new areas. For example, the distribution of parcels is expanding with internet commerce and so on. There's a lot of opportunities out there. Then there is the fact that Posti is practically connected to each and every one of us's door. It also brings new opportunities here with logistics, the connection to everyone's door. There, Posti seeks new growth opportunities in such a way that: Post will continue to be a significant company.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u18	Madam President! As we see it, this is the relevant question, this ten-year perspective, when this business is being reformed — I do not know right now which one, the Home Secretary or the Minister for Ownership Steering, with this in mind — is it possible to take into account the official activities that we have now given to the private operator? R-kiosski has handled them nicely, but we currently have permits to distribute a single foreign company. Would it be possible to see from the direction of the owner guidance or from the direction of the ministry that our passports and driving licences could pass through the post offices? Take this ball back to a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u19	Mr President! This is a very possible scenario in the future that the Posti also performs official tasks. In the future, postal services can also carry out domestic services, such as those related to the provision of food for the elderly, and this type of service may be combined with visiting the home door. Such scenarios for the future have been discussed. This grass cutting is now a long way from the basic core of Posti, but perhaps it shows that the company has innovation and wide scope to look at a wide range of possibilities from the core knowledge that the company has to build.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u20	Madam President! This second proposal of the Postal Act, tabled yesterday by the government, makes it clear that you see forced tendering as a solution to the problems of postal delivery. You hope that opening up competition will bring more jobs and entrepreneurship. I do not think that any work is more important than another job. We all know that Posti is a major employer, and now, as a result of this presentation, the postal and logistics trade union estimates that between 2500 and 3,000 jobs would disappear from Posti. Prime Minister, why is the work of low-paid postal workers not appreciated? Why can as many as 3,000 post workers be left without work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u21	Madam President! I have become so familiar with Posti’s activities that I know that the postal people are top professionals in their field. I am therefore firmly convinced that Posti will also be able to compete with the private sector, that is clear. I have every confidence in the knowledge and competitiveness and professionalism of the postal people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u22	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u23	Madam President! We've been able to watch a very special play from the media. The Finnish Broadcasting Company reports that the Finnish Defence Forces have put Russian dual citizens under special surveillance. Minister for Defence Niinistö has accused Yleisradio of fake news and denied any claim to internal instructions from its ministry in relation to dual citizens. Regardless of how you feel about the dual citizen issue, you cannot bypass the parliament and the legislation in force in Finland through informal guidelines. So I ask Minister of Defence Niinistö: Has your ministry complied with the legislation in force in Finland or has there been any unlawful informal guidelines? If informal instructions have been used, where do they come from and how will the government react in all ministries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u24	Madam President! There is no official or informal instruction, norm, line of action in the Defence Forces regarding dual citizens as conscripts or military posts. That is an unambiguous point. The difference is that we have found, for example, this case of the Kainuu Brigade, where at the information conference the military trainer gave false information about the suitability of dual citizenship for mini drone training, but this error has been corrected immediately. Another case was discovered as this was further investigated, and this is in the pre-trial investigation, but it also concerns a very limited group of military personnel. The Defence Forces enforce the law, and it is up to the Ministry of Defence to ensure that the law also provides for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u25	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u26	Mr President! The debate on national law or civil service legislation in general is one thing. So now it is a more serious matter: compliance with the legislation in force in Finland. You, Minister of Defence, have responded by denying everything first and criticising the journalism of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. At the same time, there are more and more indications that some guidelines have been issued and even implemented. As you said, the Defence Forces have said, for example, that they have found two cases in which military personnel with dual nationality would have been treated differently from others. I hope that you will take a stand on this Broadcasting News once again and tell us how the government intends to ensure that people are treated equally at all levels of all ministries, regardless of their background.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u27	Madam President! The starting point under current legislation is, of course, that dual citizens or multiple citizens, as the law says, are treated in the same way as other Finnish citizens. The difference is that, in the interests of national security, we are going to have to look at a number of changes in the legislation and in the administrative sector that I represent, in the field of defence, the law on the Defence Forces and the law on the National Defence College. The aim is that in future there will be no more conflicts of loyalty or attempts to influence which can arise at the moment when, for example, a double citizen is in a military position, so that the authorities of another country can actually regard this person as a traitor. It is also a matter of personal interest. We don't want to put him in this position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u28	Mr President! Dual citizenship is a wide-ranging issue, and the same practice exists in almost half of the world, and therefore all these issues of dual citizenship need to be examined as a whole. It is very understandable that security is one aspect of it, but I wonder — and this is now the case with the Prime Minister — whether the government as a whole should not look at issues of dual citizenship and not start to see individual ministers and ministries doing something in their own field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u29	Madam President! That is exactly what we are doing. So there's a record in the government program that we're looking at this whole thing. That whole will now be examined in the amendments to the Civil Service Act and the related amendments to the Security Clearance Act, which will become the Government's proposal for the end of spring. There is no intention to amend the Citizenship Act. That has been decided by the government. In addition, the Defence Administration and the Ministry of the Interior have their own reports on these security-critical tasks. With regard to the Ministry of Defence, this report will be completed in May and for the Ministry of the Interior — mainly the Border Guard — in August, and then decisions will be taken on it. But this whole thing has been viewed as united all along. Last time I saw you today, there was a meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u30	Mr President! This is, of course, an important subject for debate, which has in fact already been brewing over several parliamentary years, at least in the background. The question began with this news coverage, and I must admit that we have been confused with the coverage of the subject by the Broadcasting Service, in the sense that to date I have not really understood what these confirmed sources are and what exactly are the arguments that have been put forward and which are being held to. However, I am more interested in this matter of substance itself, because it is indeed important. What risks do the Minister of Defence or the Defence Administration see in this dual citizenship, or are they? However, we are also going to have a change in this direction, irrespective of all this news coverage, which has now started at the same time. Is there a general concern about these risks with the safety authorities, and have they been considered for a long time, and what would they really be?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u31	Madam President! Risks have, of course, been identified since this citizenship law was amended in 2003. Even then, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence were very skeptical about this legislation, because dual nationality practices, especially in military posts, inevitably create potential conflicts of loyalty and potential attempts to influence both this person and his family.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u32	Mr President! Whether it is the police, the Defence Forces, the Border Guard or even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a reasonably well-functioning tool for it, a security clearance — there are various levels of security studies in which the suitability and potential risks of a person are assessed in the recruitment situation. But when the Prime Minister also referred to this drafting of the law, is this now the starting point for the drafting of the law a categorical group, citizenship, or is it precisely the characteristics, abilities and potential risks of a particular individual to be assessed? And can it not be that if a person is a double citizen and gives up another citizenship, he becomes completely trustworthy and loyal at that moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u33	Madam President! Firstly, I can assure you that all guidelines, all decisions are based on fundamental and human rights and current legislation. With all this that we are doing, we certainly do not want to blame the twin citizens. Double citizens are still welcome in Finland, and we hope that dual citizenship will continue to be applied for in Finland. This debate must now be separated from this. In certain tasks, there may be some unpleasant conflict situations for the individual himself, and these safety reports are now the way in which we are going to seek clarity and new medicines by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u34	Madam President! In these security reports, it is the Ministry of Justice's responsibility to prepare the legislation, and this is precisely the purpose of seeking clearer powers for the security authorities to take into account the foreign interests of the person subject to the security report in their assessment. And then efforts would also be made to improve the ability of the authorities to submit observations to the appointing authority or other person, the person choosing the task, which can then influence the evaluation of the reliability of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u35	Madam President! This debate on dual citizenship over the last few days has actually been rather confusing, not least for the approximately 100,000 dual citizens we have in Finland. About half of the world's 200 countries have dual citizenship, and we in Finland took this policy into our legislation in 2003. I admit quite frankly that I am a little bit left over on this issue because I still have two minor dual citizens at home. They have British citizenship and Finnish citizenship. When I have tried at home to explain that this is also the way to live, live and act in Finland and there can be no restrictions of any kind, it is understood, but could the government now confirm to all the dual citizens of Finland that they will not in any way be discriminated against in this country, whether they are in office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in other ministries? This is part of today's internationalism, in which Finland must also be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u37	Mr President! Mr Stubb raised a very important point of view, and this is precisely what I have wanted to emphasise all the time that this is not the case; we do not want to blame the twin citizens under any circumstances. These discussions, which are taking place, are not related to dual citizenship, but to certain security clearances for security-critical tasks, and these situations, the practical situations, have been the ones on which we have received feedback, for several periods, and we need to be clear about this. But I can assure you that every double citizen in Finland can continue to live and trust that we respect fundamental rights, human rights and all decisions are made on that basis, not by categorising the dual citizens into another category. I can assure you that my answer is positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u38	Mr President! This debate has clearly been in order, and I would like to thank the Prime Minister. This is a clear answer to Mr Stubb's fine question. I myself have two dual citizens at home, they are Swedish and Finnish citizens, and I have been contacted by different people who are concerned about whether they are somehow perceived as less valuable Finnish citizens. For example, as regards the Russian-speaking minority, we have dual citizens of Russia and Finland. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u39	Mr President! That is what this is all about. We want to avoid situations in which individuals could become such a loyalty and conflict of interest, and for these situations now legislation is mainly aimed at making changes to this Security Clearance Act and the Civil Service Act. Then there will be a separate study of the special requirements of the Border Guard at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, and as far as there is a need for change, then decisions will be taken separately. The second will be completed in May, i.e. this Defence Forces report, and in August this report on the Border Guard will be completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u40	Next question, Congressman Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u41	Madam President! As the only party, the Left Alliance has considered that the drastic weakening of the working conditions of employees brought about by the Kiki agreement will not balance the Finnish economy, improve employment or restore competitiveness. For example, in municipalities, a third of the holiday allowance is cut from low-paid municipal workers who are hard-working, forced to do more unpaid work for three working days a year and transferred to them the proportion of employers' social contributions — because these objectives are not met. Now the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has come to the conclusion that this year we will in fact have to raise 500 million additional debts as a result of the agreement. Mr Orpo, what do you think the workers affected by these weakenings will think now when, in addition to being targeted at them, they find that public finances are only being weakened by the competitiveness pact?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u42	Mr President! First of all, all the government's efforts, as well as improving competitiveness, are based on the objective that we must get our employment growth and more and more Finns to work. Only then will we be able to strengthen our tax base, and we will also be able to take care of the pay of public sector employees in the future, their employment relations and the development of important public sector services. This is what we are talking about when we have come up with a competitiveness pact of this kind. Then what is the employment impact of the Competitiveness Pact: the Ministry of Finance’s Department of Economic Affairs has estimated it to be between 30000 and 40000 in the longer term. Now, as I recall, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council estimates it to 16,000. This can be the subject of academic debate, but the fact is that the competitiveness pact improves Finland's price competitiveness, wage competitiveness in our important export markets, and when we know that Sweden, Germany, our main competitors, among others, have already raised and raised wages, we will be able to achieve the big competitive gap,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u43	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u44	Mr President! The Left Alliance believes that a better way to reduce working conditions would be to invest in knowledge, research, product development. About a year ago, the government commissioned an independent OECD assessment of what to do with our R & D funding in order to make it more efficient and serve the overall interests of society. The OECD's message was clear: increase funding for research, product development and knowledge; we are lagging behind in this respect. I would now like to ask as the government prepares for the mid-term review and the spending limits debate, for example, from the honourable Minister Lintilä, the leader of the football team:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u45	Madam President! Without the support of the Left Alliance, the government has reacted to this situation and will certainly consider it a key project in the mid-term review to put the whole chain of innovation funding in order, because we have recognised and recognise that we have gone through cuts in innovation funding to the point that if we want to continue to bring trained people, good products, innovations that are creating a new economic base, then we will have to invest more in it. The way it's going to happen is different.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u46	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u47	Madam President! I am very glad that this is the point of view you have considered. Indeed yesterday we have received the OECD's assessment of this research and innovation system, and it will be going through very carefully. In addition, the Board of Directors has already set up a working group under the chairmanship of Chief of Staff Lehikoinen, whose task and mandate is to prepare sustainable ways to finance research and higher education institutions even more strongly in the future, so that at the same time we can ensure and ensure that Finland continues to be built on high levels of expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u48	Mr President! This is not just an academic issue, Mr Orpo, but it is a question of the rationale and basis for this competitiveness pact as a whole. It is now justified for Finns to reduce wages and extend working time by increasing employment, but this group of professors is questioning the employment impact of this agreement and the government's assessment of the increase in the number of jobs. So the key question is: why is the government, which is seeking to balance public finances, calling for a labour market agreement that increases the imbalance in public finances? Who benefits from this, other than the owners of the companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u49	Mr President! This will benefit the Finnish unemployed, who will have the opportunity to work as our export companies become more competitive. We have been aware that it is precisely the open export sector that is being supported here, because we need its veto. At the moment, we are at an advanced stage of economic growth dependent on the building of the domestic market, domestic demand. We need a bet on our exports, and this is the exact one. I still say that the figures from the Ministry of Finance — not government estimates, the National Economy Department of the Ministry of Finance makes independent assessments — are higher than the employment impact of this. And I do not consider it to be a small value that, internationally, rating agencies, among others, attach great importance to the competitiveness pact as an indication that Finland is still able to settle matters, can make important decisions together. That, too, is important to us. One percentage point increases the interest rate on sovereign debt: one billion in interest payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u50	Värderade talman, break up Minister Sipilä! Ni konstateride i går att ni outtröttligt arbetar för jämställdhet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u51	Mr President! We stated in the government negotiations that we are about 15% behind our key competitors in terms of competitiveness. We went to tackle it with three different things. The competitiveness pact is one. There is, among other things, an extension of working time, which is an important activity. Then there are wage moderation, which closes the gap with Germany, for example. And then there are these productivity-enhancing measures, which, for example, have now been addressed by this OECD Evaluation Council, and which are being looked at. There are other bottlenecks, and these bottlenecks, such as barriers to the employment of women and the increase in female employment rates, need to be openly addressed in the middle of the debate. Åland is a pretty good example. There the employment rate for women is higher than that for men.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u52	Mr President! In addition to the content, the Left Alliance has criticised the competitiveness pact for the nature of its creation. Yesterday, a group speech from the Finns Party compared the competitiveness pact with the engagement of January. In the January engagement on 23 January 1940, the Finnish people were united against a common threat and the social partners were given contractual rights. In fact, the Kiky agreement de facto reduced these contractual rights. The government pressured, tightened and threatened with additional cuts for pensioners, the unemployed and families with children, unless employees were willing to comply with these weakenings of working conditions. Will the government continue this line, which is very far removed from the January engagement, in future decisions in relation to the social partners?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u53	This competitiveness pact is historic. It is our common agreement against a common enemy, namely unemployment. This has been done together with the social partners. And now that we are discussing what its impact is — whether it is 16,000 or 35,000 or 40,000 — the social partners actually estimate this to be even greater than the forecast of the Ministry of Finance’s Department of Economic Affairs. We now see the impact of the competitiveness pact. For example, in the situation in New Town, I discussed what its impact is. I have discussed with many companies the impact of the competitiveness pact on your investment decision or employment decision, and in all cases I get the answer that it will have a significant impact. Some gaming industry or here, where you're looking for top-level professionals, with a competitiveness pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u54	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u55	Mr President, ärade talman! För några timmar sedan beryttade finska Yle att justitieminister Lindström vill diskuera en ändring av grundlagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u56	Madam President! I'm glad you took up this offer to discuss the Constitution. I replied to this question that the matter should be discussed, and when the journalist asked if you thought that it should be changed, I said no.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u57	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u58	Mr President! After all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is constantly discussing the interpretation of the Constitution, and every day we work here. Amendment of the Constitution — that is quite another matter. And when the Attorney General makes such a conversation, it is a serious message. And now I would like to know whether this is the kind of thing that the government has agreed on in its strategy debate a few days ago. Is this the view of the government that we need such a constitutional debate right now, when on the other side of the Atlantic we have a President who is questioning the judiciary there? Is there now a need for this kind of discussion in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u59	Madam President! As the Minister of Justice said, the government has not even discussed the amendment of the Constitution. And that's the kind of act we're not bringing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u60	Mr President! Although there is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs here, whose work I greatly appreciate, and I know what the mandate is — it is discussing — is it not strange that if we do not have a debate in society, in this Chamber too, that there is something we can do about the Constitution? I, and the government, have not proposed anything to change it, but it would be strange when the world changes around us if we could not have debates on constitutional interpretations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u61	Madam Speaker! Just a few words for this debate in the sense that when we talk about the old interpretations of the Constitution and the interpretations that are 30 years old, the fact is that we have a very new and modern constitution. It has only entered into force in 2000. So, in that sense, I'm sure it's worth discussing. But I could also use this as an advertising break that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will hold on 2 March a seminar to discuss the supervision of the Constitution, the interpretation of the Constitution and also the work of the Constitutional Committee, not only in the form of a debate in plenary, but also in that Auditorium of the Small Parliament, which is intended to hold this debate between us constitutional experts and parliamentarians and officials. And I am quite glad that the Prime Minister said that if there is ever to be a change in the Constitution,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u62	There was no question here, but let's see if Mr. Kantola has any.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u63	Mr President! Just to be sure, for television viewers, we do not have a 30-year-old constitution, but, as the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie, said, the new constitution for the year 2000 is at our disposal. After all, Parliament – perhaps not in Parliament yet, but in a parliamentary working group – is currently discussing the development of intelligence legislation, which has in fact highlighted the possible need to intervene in the Constitution in respect of at least one paragraph during the last parliamentary term. With this legislative initiative on intelligence, the House is about to have a debate on the amendment of the Constitution, probably in a very orderly order, so that the Constitution will be discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u64	Minister Lindström found a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u65	Mr President! I couldn't find the question, but I'd like to comment. Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the very quick response. I was chasing the debate on the Constitution, and now it worked out right away. That's great. I am fully aware that, in the context of this intelligence legislation, this is Article 10 of the Constitution. is involved in and OM has prepared and prepared it. And I am also aware that the Constitution is a little older than a 30-year-old law. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u66	Next question, Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u68	Mr President! There is currently no legislation on hospice care, instead of guidance on what is good hospice treatment, which must be taken into account in a situation where human days are nearing their end. This has been attempted in recent years through content and these guidelines for hospice care are being updated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u69	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u70	Mr President! Good progress has been made, but it is still needed. The need for hospice care increases, for example, as the population ages, e.g. as memory disorders increase, and also when the service system is reformed so that an increasing number of patients are treated in the framework of service housing or at home rather than in institutional care. However, for example, the majority of some 90 doctors with special palliative care work in hospitals, and hospice care at home or in service housing is precisely the deficiency. Now that the reform of social security is being carried out, I ask you, Minister: has this contradiction been taken into account? How can hospice care be developed in the context of this reform of social welfare and health services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u71	Madam President! There are many dimensions of change in social and health care since the day we have the social welfare system, when we have people who are trained from the point of view of social welfare and health care to identify a person, to see a person as one, we have a health care system with models of patient and social care, a education system in which a person is a customer. This is a top-level issue, but it has an impact on the way in which a person in everyday life needs a service. Secondly, with regard to education this year, during this spring, for example, it is intended to meet the principals of universities in my own case. I have met people from universities of applied sciences — this has been two-way — with regard to the education system. Of course, the Minister for Education and Culture is responsible for the content and how education is directed, but we have a lot of social work on the day we have such trained professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u72	Madam President! Good quality and quality hospice treatment is the right of patients. In Europe, we have examples of how the euthanasia debate has slowed down by systematically starting to invest, including in the UK, in the quality of hospice care. In Finland we have five hospice specialist units, perhaps the most famous Terhokoti, including Karinakoti, and there has been news of both of these, that both units are struggling with financial difficulties. It would also be important for us to get these good practices of hospice care out of hand in health care too. I would have asked the minister: If there is no such law on hospice care, how are we supposed to ensure that we have quality hospice care throughout Finland? And how will the funding of these specially specialised hospice services be taken care of?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u73	Madam President! You have better information on how many hospice specialist units we have in the country, but I have information that there are hospitals with hospice departments separately and with trained staff who take care of it as good as possible at the end of life, and this will be one part of this whole social change. Firstly, the change that is being built creates the foundations, the legislation creates the foundations. The content is made in the field, and there as close as possible to the person, for example, this hospice treatment should take place in the future. Of course, specialised units are needed, but at least now we must not create the impression that hospice care will be in five places in the future — no, but that the training of people specialising in hospice care should be increased, and secondly, it is part of the chain of care in a situation where the disease can no longer be cured. How to ensure funding? We have the 19.7 billion cake that we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u74	Mr President! Professional and competent staff are needed to implement hospice care. No one can implement it, but we need multi-professional know-how and special skills, because it has so many special areas. The weakening of the eligibility criteria for care staff will be a problem in this area, as it will also have an impact on the quality of hospice care, e.g. in the service sector and in home care. How do you secure the care of the elderly of skilled and skilled staff, especially those who are able to provide appropriate care for hospice patients, when eligibility criteria are being undermined?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u75	Madam President! Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen is now making quite a generalisation in a situation where the future of social and health care as a whole is more individualised in care and care. The drugs will be more individual. Even no digitalisation will replace another person in a situation where there is no medication or some kind of technical assistance or support... We need trained people, we need geriatric expertise in a different way in the future than has been necessary to date. We also need people with professional skills in this final phase of a person's life, the last days. You generalise that training requirements are being undermined. This human life course from birth to that end of life will require a variety of professionals and experts, and it is the role of the educational system to ensure this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u76	Madam President! Hospice care has been developed in Finland for years. The STM's recommendation to improve hospice care together has led municipalities, joint municipal authorities, cities to draw up their own guidelines for hospice care. It is very important that they are in all their condition, and when we are many municipal decision-makers, please take the question of whether hospice management plans and guidelines have been drawn up in your own area. It is true that there is no legislation, and it is true that there are many shortcomings. We must do everything we can. There is a need for more training, for workers to have access to on-the-job training. After all, Minister, there is a record in the Act on the Elderly that, if necessary, the number of staff can be increased, including in the case of hospice care. My question is: how will this entry be instilled in the practical field so that the operators there will then be able to access it when these situations arise, when more staff is needed, and this is one of the things that makes it possible to increase the staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u77	Mr President! Over the last few months, I even held a heated debate on the number of nurses in any unit providing elderly services and services to the ageing population: what care-intensive people, what care demanding women and men, are at the place in question. Chapter of categorical instruction, decimal number: Man is an entity, not a decimal number. You may need one of that professional help and support 24/7 to 24 hours a day for seven days a week. This is exactly what you need to be able to solve in each such place in your everyday life, in those facilities, under the conditions in which people spend their everyday life 24 hours a day. The announcement of one categorical number does not guarantee that care and care are decent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u78	Mr President! Good life must be the right of everyone, and it includes a good death. The fact that we have hospice specialist units was raised here. That is the case, but the line that has been worked on is that hospice treatment would be possible for everyone so that there too, in primary health care, good hospice care would be provided at home. But when we raised the issue of Terhokoti and its financial problems, it highlights well why there were problems there. It was that certain municipalities were not provided with a referral. There were areas where people could not get hospice treatment. That is why it is excellent that Mr Ruhula said here that this is becoming a matter of instructions, so that the decision-makers and health practitioners also know that people are entitled to hospice care. I hope that in future, when the provinces take overall responsibility, then these practices will also become strong and the right to a good death — a painless, good death — will also be possible. [President MariaLohela: Herein lies the question. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u81	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents has proposed that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 8 February 2017. Contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents in the debate, supported by Mrs Maija Reijo Hongisto, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should deliver an opinion to the Administrative Committee. At its meeting on 9 February 2017, the Council of Presidents revised its earlier proposal and proposed that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u82	When the revised proposal of the Council of Presidents is the same as that of Mrs Maijala, the proposal of the Council of Presidents is expected to be adopted?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u83	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u84	Mr President! I have a great deal of respect for this citizens' initiative because it concerns the generation of builders of the Finnish welfare society. Dr. Kiljunen deserves praise: more than 80,000 signatories, and with the support of the people, he is undoubtedly on an important issue in his citizens' initiative. Due to the folded index, pensioners are the only group of income recipients who are legally impoverished. Since the 1990s, pensions have been undisputedly lagging behind in terms of earnings. Between 1995 and 2015, wages rose almost twice as fast as pensions. The earnings-related pension rose by 46 points and wages by 88. The citizens' initiative is therefore derived from reality, from everyday experience. Mr President! Over the last 10 to 15 years, like many colleagues, I have answered a question a thousand times about what you are doing or what your party is doing for pensioners. I have said that tens of thousands of pensioners have a sharp stone called "index" in their shoes. When one has once been in each of them, the pain will not last for many minutes. Well, thousands of pensioners and thousands of pensioners have had the same pain for years. A lot of people's self-esteem has been violated. I, and we Social Democrats, have taken these feelings and experiences of pensioners more seriously. The most important thing for us is to improve the position of the most vulnerable. Level increases for both national pensions and guaranteed pension recipients are humanely necessary. At the Lahti party meeting last weekend, we decided: "We have drawn up a programme of measures to reduce pensioner poverty and secure the livelihood of pensioners, paying particular attention to the position of older women and those receiving small occupational pensions. Among other things, the options for raising national pension levels and improving taxation and the impact of housing allowance, services and service charges for pensioners will be examined as part of the package." I am very pleased with the decision of the assembly. It is definitely the right step, and it is also a step in the direction of the citizens' initiative. Why? Because I do not believe that the minimum pension provision for those receiving an occupational pension can be corrected without interfering with the indexation. Mr President! Under the poverty line, which is EUR 1200 per month, there are just under half a million earnings-related pensioners, and exactly 470,000. More than 100,000 pensioners try to survive on a mere guarantee pension of EUR 768 per month. There are 900,000 pensioners among us who receive less than 1500 euros a month. By the way, almost one in five Finns is behind the figures. Low levels and low incomes have been followed by a sharp increase in the number of pensioner defaults. I'm afraid the biggest group in the food line is the senior citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u89	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Gustafsson for his thorough and sound handling of the matter. I also think that former representative Kimmo Kiljunen deserves thanks for the work he has done in raising the issue of pensioners' livelihoods to the public debate. Equally important is that we see that this is not either-or-case. We have genuine pensioner poverty; we must be able to deal with it, we must be able to fix it. At the same time, we must make decisions that also meet the legitimate needs and expectations of young generations of future pensions. We'll have to keep both of these in the conversation. That is why I say that the speech made by the Centre for Pensions on this matter was unreasonable when they claimed that the income of pensioners has improved significantly in 20 years. That was only based on the fact that new retired people receive a much better pension than those who retired two decades ago. Many of the people who have retired in the past are facing a real livelihood problem today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u90	Mr President! I agree with Mr Gustafsson that there is an important social initiative on the table. Unfortunately, however, I cannot agree with this initiative in the same way — or indeed it is not even 'unfortunately'. I am pleased to be in favour of intergenerational justice and the sustainability and reliability of this system, including in the eyes of the generation that is just entering the labour market. According to my information, the proposal that has now come here in the form of a citizens' initiative would build our system in such a way that pension funds would in practice have been exhausted by the time the current 20s retired. It will also be a question of how Mr Gustafsson, when he strongly supported this motion, did not take into account the fact that the most difficult group of pensioners in this society is guaranteed pensioners, those who, for one reason or another, did not raise an occupational pension for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u92	Mr President! I agree with the previous speaker that intergenerational justice and the sustainability of the pension system are key issues. I think that Mr Gustafsson has made a commendable point to the need to look at the various options during the committee debate, and I agree with him, as long as these two points of view go along and then, on the basis of the facts, we present those views and take the final decisions. It is clear that our pensioners are people who raise national incomes. They participate in many ways in the activities of our society: they are consumers, do voluntary work, act as family carers, and also, you can say, act as carers for their own grandchildren. In that respect, I respect this initiative and the generation that has built this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u93	Mr President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative for a valuable debate and I hope that it will receive its due consideration in committee. In that sense, I agree — and I will go through it more in my longer speech — that we should focus specifically on these small and medium-sized pensioners. Pensioners recently received a tax reduction, but this percentage will of course benefit more people with higher incomes. I have a lot of contact, especially with women who have worked for 40 to 50 years in low-paid jobs, and they really feel it is a great injustice that they get between EUR 1000 and EUR 1500 in hand, they have no chance of earning more. We must seek different ways of doing this. And this applies particularly to women, because women's pension averages 66% of men's pension. I thank you for this valuable opportunity to discuss this issue today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u94	Mr President! This initiative is irresponsible, selfish and anti-social. I agree with Mr Gustafsson that we have too many poor pensioners, but the implementation of this initiative would not help them at all. Those who are now in their 60s and receive a good pension, such as Mr Gustafsson, myself and former MP Kimmo Kilju, would benefit most of all, but it would not help the lowest-income pensioners at all. If there are funds to improve the status of pensioners, those funds should be used specifically to improve the status of the lowest-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u95	Mr President! Firstly, it is very important and good that we discuss the different life situations and livelihoods of pensioners, and at the same time we must remember that there are very different pensioners. We also have young pensioners, not only pensioners over 65 years of age. This low income applies specifically to persons under 55 years of age who are on disability pension and also to persons living alone, and when these are added together and taken into account, the very difficult situation is precisely for persons under 55 who are living alone. Up to three out of five of them are low incomes. At the same time, we must remember that older women over 75 years of age are in poverty, and these are the groups to which we now have to go in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u96	Mr President! The Coalition Party respects the work done by retired generations. We respect this initiative, we are going through this initiative carefully in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but it is good to say here that concern for low-income pensioners is serious but this initiative in itself does not help their situation. It is all right to say here that next year the guarantee pension will be increased and the agency of this government will have a strong role to play in ensuring that every pensioner can get along and live a good life. The serious aspect of this initiative is that it would ruin our pension system. The bill would be sent coldly to future generations. Even now, young generations experience distrust of the pension system. They're worried about the future. A 100-year-old Finland needs to be fair, we need to take care of today
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u97	Mr President! There is far too much pensioner poverty in Finland, and Parliament must be aware of it and take action. The age groups that have built Finland also deserve economically secure pension years. However, the initiative before us does not eliminate pensioner poverty, because if it were to happen, it would give the most to the most well-paid pensioners, but to the poorest of all. In addition, there is a threat of an increase in the income gap among pensioners and a deterioration in the sustainability of the pension system, a deterioration in future pensions and an increase in pension contributions. The priority is to improve the position of the poorest pensioners, and this would be best achieved by raising the national pension and guarantee pension, as well as by reducing the cut-off point for Kela's pension and earnings-related pension. This would help those on a small pension. The employment pension index should be corrected in such a way that it favours small occupational pensions more than large ones, and this could be achieved by partly transforming the index into euro increases, and hopefully this model can be considered in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u98	Mr President! It is understandable that pensions attract great interest. In particular, on the basis of the initiative taken by Mr Kiljune, there has been a very tough debate, and I would like to pay great tribute to the speeches made by Mrs Saarikko and Mrs Hassi. They are analysing this situation very correctly. This initiative by Kimmo Kiljunen would serve those pensioners who already have a reasonably good income. For the small pensioner who needs to be helped, this would be the best way of doing so, even if it were to increase the guarantee pension fairly or give other social benefits to small pensioners. We cannot do very much through taxation, because they pay very little tax, so that there is little profit to be made, but we must make sure that in a city like Helsinki these costs have escaped to a huge level and that there is one problem. I understand that this initiative also has a little bit of polishing of its own shield when Kimmo Kiljunen, when he was represented, was in the process of creating this current index system. Of course, I understand the tensions in the forthcoming elections and the plans to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u99	Mr President! Pensioners bring up the experience that they are a burden to this society when I go around in a conversation. This is by no means the case. Pensioners have done, many of them, a very long job on a small salary and also on heavy duty. Because many have had a long career, but wages are low and in part, especially for women, they remain very low. For this reason, I believe that this pensioner poverty, which is the most important issue, must see these various causes and correct this situation from now on. We have a lot of people who have been on disability pension when they are young, and they have the greatest difficulties in making a living. Then we have people on basic pensions who have a very low income. But those people also experience it wrong, who have a small pension because they cannot cope with their pensions because the cost of living is so great. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u102	Mr President! Each of us in this House knows that very many pensioners find the present index system unfair. It is therefore important that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as has been said here, should deal very thoroughly with this initiative and with our entire occupational pension system. I personally feel that the problem with this initiative is that the starting point is that we can improve pensions for hundreds of thousands of people in Finland without being away from anywhere else. However, it is honest to say that either it is out of future pensions or it means an increase in the pressure on occupational pension contributions. Anyone who does not take this aspect into account does not, in my view, take into account all the relevant factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u103	Mr President! The issue raised in the citizens' initiative, namely pensioner poverty, is a real and difficult problem. In fact, it is a disgrace to Finland, which is 100 years old. Everything must be done to remove it. It should also be remembered that government decisions have increased and deepened pensioner poverty. Increases in service charges, reductions in medical fees, index cuts, etc. have weakened the financial situation of many elderly people and have made it difficult to cope with everyday expenses. These government decisions also eat up the increase in the guarantee pension very quickly. The citizens' initiative therefore intervenes in an important matter, but this initiative will not remedy the situation of the poorest pensioners, which is to say that the increase in the level of lower pensions, including the level of occupational pensions, would be the most important measure to eliminate pensioners' poverty. In addition, there can be something to be done by means of housing allowance and taxation, and adequate equal social services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u104	Mr President! Many Members have said that this initiative cannot be supported for a legitimate reason. I take the view that Mr Gustafsson was very much in favour of this, but I am not quite sure now that many other Social Democrats have spoken, which will be the position of the Social Democrats on this proposed initiative. Maybe we'll hear it here again. I welcome the fact that, with this debate, there are two dimensions to this big initiative. The first is the entire pension system and its sustainability. It should be noted that Parliament has recently reformed the pension system in a very large way with the support of the whole of the common Parliament, if I remember correctly. This reform aimed specifically at the sustainability of the system and resulted in a painful decision to raise the retirement age. The second dimension, which has been well spoken of here, is the livelihood of pensioners, i.e. the livelihood of people who are already retired, in which my own concern is, above all, that of those on guaranteed pensions. The problem described here is two-way, and this initiative is not the answer to the overall sustainability of the pension system and to the fairness of generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u105	Mr President! If I listened correctly to Mr Gustafsson's speech, he did not support this initiative either. This initiative is based on a direct shift to the wage index, and Mr Gustafsson spoke about the mid-term index and so on. I personally welcome the fact that there has been a broad consensus here that we need to find ways of facilitating, above all, the situation of some half a million very small retired people. Over 100,000 Finns are on minimum pension, and I personally consider this initiative to be a valuable opening point for discussion. We need to look for ways of helping these people, who are now really tight. You can say that they are not getting along at the moment, and that is why the contributions must be directed above all to the guarantee pension, to the national pension and here, which
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u106	The reply, Mr Kankaanniemi, and Mr Gustafsson, who opened the debate, will certainly be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u107	Mr President! We must thank you for having taken this initiative. Let us have a debate on this, and then, in the committees too, we hope that the very thorough work will be done and we will go through all these issues and then we will see who is in favour of what. History is that under the leadership of the Social Democrats
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u110	Mr President! There are far too many low-income pensioners, and most of them are among those living alone in the age group over 75, of whom up to one in four are low-income women, up to 27 per cent of women living alone. Poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems that need to be addressed, and the best way to improve the position of the most low-income pensioners is to increase the guarantee pension and improve the level of national pensions, as has already been said here. After all, the government has made improvements to the guarantee pension, but unfortunately those cuts in the National Pensions Index are eating these increases. A good way of improving the status is also to reduce service charges and caps, improve the level of reimbursement of medicines, develop housing allowance and support for the pensioner, unlike the government. However, the most important thing now would be to draw up a programme of measures to reduce this retirement poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners, and if there were now a minister here, I would ask the government whether you intend to draw up such a programme to reduce poverty among the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u111	Mr President! The greatest merit of this citizens' initiative is certainly that we here together now talk about pensioner poverty and we all recognise and recognise its existence and its alarming size, and we all agree that it is these low-income pensioners who are the group whose position we must improve and address pensioner poverty. I very much hope that this debate will also leave traces of the government's budget for next year, because last autumn's decisions did lead to a weakening of the purchasing power of the most low-income pensioners. The purchasing power of those receiving occupational pensions weakened by 0.4 per cent and by up to 2 percentage points for the lowest-income, i.e. guaranteed pensioners. I very much hope that these discussions will be left to another kind of decision in view of next autumn's budget debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u112	Mr President! The truth is, the employment pension companies are doing well. EUR 190 billion are occupational pension funds there. The directors earn hundreds of thousands of euros a year and the board members receive tens of thousands of euros of meeting fees. In 1996, this folded index was introduced and the base part of the national pension was cut, as Kankaanniemi pointed out. I remember a well-heard debate in the old Chamber, when a Member of Parliament Hyssala had drawn up an election programme in which she promised to return the base of her national pension and change the folded index, and when she became Minister, then, Mr Zyskowicz, many times you asked when the centre would take care of this matter, and she was unable to answer that question. So if you listened carefully to Mr Gustafsson's speech, he was talking not about percentage increases, but about increases in euros. The difference in income between pensioners will not increase, but small pension income will benefit considerably from it. Yes, I think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u113	I will give the floor to the representatives Lauslahti, Viitanen and Keränen and then give the floor to Mr Gustafsson. After Mr Gustafsson, there seems to be and will continue to be desires. There have also been requests for further contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u114	Mr President! The government will remember pensioners in the future. 2018 is about to raise the guarantee pension, EUR 8, and in that respect it is a significant handout. It is clear that customer fees and others are effective and take up part of that small pension. In that respect, we also have a responsibility as decision-makers to see what kind of payments we will collect from our pensioners in the coming years. As far as pension companies are concerned, we should point out that confidence in pension companies is a little low in oxygen, and in this respect it is necessary to increase transparency and to consider whether we could make a statement that we would have the representation of pensioners, for example, in the board of directors in the future, where there would also be a little closer eye on the outside.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u115	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for this initiative. It is important that pensioners' livelihoods are here in the debate. I agree with Mr Gustafsson. I think that was a good and important speech. And I would also like to emphasise what Mr Heinäluoto then said in his own mind that this is not a question either—or question, that is both—and a question, and a sustainable system must be safeguarded, and that pensioners' poverty must be combated. President! There seems to be a bit of a spirit here that the government parties will support pensioners in their speeches, but unfortunately we also know what they are doing this season. A rather large example is found in this tax gap that we have brought up and which we demand to be abolished. In fact, service charges have been raised, index cuts will eat up this future increase in guarantee pension. This is not a good situation and we need to be corrected. That is why it is very important, President, that the SDP at its own party meeting, among other things, was obliged to act in such a way that in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u116	Mr President! This is where I thought I would just intervene in this process. Every citizen's initiative must be treated with respect and respect. It's gonna take a lot of work. But then we're gonna have to deal with this. When this Parliament started in spring 2015, we immediately got 600 pages of nivas on the table from the pension reform, which had been drawn up together with the social partners and which had thoroughly explained what the pension system should be like in order for it to last for decades to come. I have quite a lot of doubts as to whether this Parliament wants to change this recently adopted pension system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u117	One last comment, Mr Zyskowicz, before Mr Gustafsson, on the speech made by Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u118	Mr President! Yes The cape now tried to pull home in a rather unfair way. Here you put the government parties and your party on the opposite sides of the SDP as if the SDP, your party, were opposed to the current pension index system. You have been in the government for about 20 years since the creation of this current index in your government, and you have never once, when you are a government party, started to correct this index system in the direction that is now being proposed in this citizens' initiative. After all this, in this debate, you are now creating a front line, wondering the government parties who are not as enthusiastic about this initiative as such, in a situation where neither is this initiative as such enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u119	Mr President! Unlike Mr Zyskowicz, we are enthusiastic about this. Many times here we have called on the government to take action to combat pensioner poverty, to cancel the cuts, and fortunately, for example, the cut in the housing allowance was cancelled. As Mr Gustafsson has started, we have pointed out that this needs to be carefully examined in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u122	Finally, Mr Zyskowicz, the last response to this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u123	Mr President! Mr Viitanen is now confused about his own speeches. You said that you demars think that this should be carefully examined and discussed in committee, and you refer to a position of Häkämies — I do not know which Häkämies — in 2007. Mr Viitanen, the reality of this Chamber is that no party is in favour, including the SDP, of this citizens' initiative and its implementation. If there is a party here, such as the SDP, which is in favour of implementing this citizens' initiative, then poop it out. But so far, when more social democrats have voted here, no Social Democrat speaker has signed up for this initiative. The fact that the problem of pensioner poverty is a problem has all been said in this Chamber. And when you were in the government, let us not live to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, many representatives of the SDP are standing their fingers here, but now is the highest time to give Mr Gustafsson the floor. You represent the same church, the same party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u128	Mr Eestilä has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u129	Mr President! I personally welcome this initiative because it is a good thing that Parliament is dealing with this issue, and I agree with many others here, such as Mr Zyskowicz, that this goes to the Committee of Experts, which listens to experts. At least in the referral debate, I myself think that there are a few marginal conditions that I myself require in order for this solution to be fair. The sustainability of pension funds must be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u132	Let's continue with the debate for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u133	Mr President! The fairness of the earnings-related pension system is quite legitimate in the debate, and it is therefore good that this citizens' initiative has now been brought here to the House. In fact, the whole problem now revolves around the adequacy of pension funds in the future. I would therefore argue that the wealth of pension companies could be made more efficient by increasing the share weight of pension investments. Based on a long-term return history of more than 200 years, for example, the annual real return on US shares has been around 6.7 per cent, which means a doubling of capital every 11 years. This return is therefore available on the stock market. On the other hand, it is difficult to achieve even a positive return on current bond markets in particular, and the real target for earnings-related pension investments has now fallen to 3%. Of course, it is obvious that the more long-term investment we are talking about, the more long-term investment we are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u134	Mr President! The pension reform, which entered into force on 1 January, is negotiated by the social partners and is a long-term continuation of previous pension reforms aimed at making the occupational pension system sustainable in terms of funding and also fair to those receiving it. Significant improvements have been made there: in 2005, a major reform was carried out in which, among other things, pensions began to accumulate during the period of family leave, pension from the period of study began to accumulate and the entire working career accumulates pension. Well, this good comes in future pensions, including for us, then to be seen. But the problem with this pensioner poverty is that there are those who are receiving these small pensions who have had their careers shredded, and there are also those who have been disabled, for example, and are receiving disability pensions. There must be other means to do this than an index, because it does not bring this correction here and now to those who receive a small pension. That's why I think
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u135	Mr President! It is good to note that no one has continued to support this initiative as it has been made here. Mr Gustafsson speaks beautifully of it, but he is not in favour of what is being proposed here to move directly to the wage index.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u138	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say and remind you that just last autumn we have approved and discussed this new reform of occupational pensions, which has brought us structures and a basis for the future, and in that respect I am very pleased. But when the question was asked, what was the approval of our party assembly?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u141	Honorable Speaker! In this debate on this initiative, which is very important and which must be carefully addressed, we all agree that there is neither a representative nor a parliamentary group which, as such, would support this initiative. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to say that the most important thing is that we look at how the most low-income pensioners can be helped. And I say here that the government has decided that next year the guarantee pension will be increased, and that is a good thing. That is not enough, we have to look at our taxes and, in particular, service charges. At the same time as the Old Age Services Act, legislation on the service charges of pensioners, the service charges of the elderly had to come into being, and this has not been achieved. Now it is a good thing that the government will soon set up a working group to see what kind of payments older people will have to pay for meals, for example, when they are in home care. But it is fair to say now, Mr Gustafsson, that this initiative — this initiative which you have signed — does not help the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u142	Before Mr Gustafsson I will give a reply to the representatives of Mäkelä, Nurminen and Lauslahti and then to Mr Gustafsson. Then let us see if we can continue the debate or move on to the actual speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u143	Mr President! On this important initiative, the debate is largely unanimous, and I myself can sign up to the speeches made by many colleagues, including the importance of correcting pensioner poverty and the fact that this initiative as such does not correct that pensioner poverty but requires other measures. In other words, once more allocation is made through the increase in employment, this allocation can be used to reduce the burden of low-income payments by other means and to target these to pensioners. I would like to point out that the sustainability and fairness of the pension system, both between generations and within, must be taken into account. For example, pensions in my own age group have been cut unilaterally through the life expectancy factor very significantly. Perhaps it will be easier to make those decisions there 30 years from now, when today’s decision-makers are not themselves enjoying those pensions, perhaps this is the case. However, the pension system should be able to be trusted. Trust is the most important capital for the pension system — do we trust that we will also receive those pensions in 30 or 40 years' time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u144	Mr President! It is important now that we discuss this initiative so that older people are not seen as a burden in our society. Having followed this debate, I do not think we should seek confrontation between young people and current pensioners. The pension system must take care of our low-income pensioners, and young generations also want to work towards tackling this problem. I believe that, now that the initiative comes to the table — especially when we are united in our willingness to solve this problem of pensioners' poverty — we will also come up with solutions from the committee that look at both guarantee pensions and tax solutions as well as other factors affecting this, that this issue will also be dealt with in a concrete way, especially when we are so united here. But I believe that we in Parliament will find a solution, or at least the Social Democrats will present an alternative to ensuring fair pension security for young people and current pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u145	Mr President! Just as the previous speaker spoke, it is our job to ensure that we treat the young as well as the old. There have been more than one rise here among the most vulnerable pensioners, guaranteed pensioners. In this respect, we should remember that the Government has committed itself to increasing the guarantee pension in 2018. In addition, the guarantee pension was increased earlier. On the other hand, however, we have to look at the purchasing power of pensioners as a whole and the related service charges, as has been the case here from the demos. In this respect, we need to think more carefully about both national decision-making and in our municipalities, where quite a few of us are involved in deciding what kind of fees we collect, for example, for meal prices, whether we may possibly offer sports services free of charge to every pensioner. At that level, too, there is much we can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u146	Mr Gustafsson, and after his speech, I will give the floor to Mr Meri, Mr Räsänen and Mr Laitinen-Pesola. Since then, I believe that everyone who has asked has received the floor at least once, many more times. After those speeches, we shall move on to the actual list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u147	Mr President! The citizen Kiljunen has always said publicly and at events where I have been present that the aim of this citizens' initiative is not to help the poorest citizens but to use these earnings-related pension funds, as has been said here, for the benefit of those who receive a small pension, and then I myself have highlighted this mid-term index, and then we move on to the wage index. I would like to repeat to Mrs Heinos: I have signed this initiative by Mr Kiljunen, and we are now having a referral debate, and that committee will then possibly come to this Chamber with a proposal for a decision, and then I will see if it is something I can support or object to. But I think this is so important that I am not withdrawing my support in the referral debate — of course not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u148	Mr President! Many have said here that we are very much in agreement that something needs to be done about this. Mrs Mäkelä also said very well about me whether we trust in the future that we will all receive pension. I must honestly say that I myself have been thinking for years, even though I am not yet 50 years old and, on the other hand, I am sure that there can be a situation where you can see the kind of pension you will receive in time, where the world goes. It has also been hoped that there will be no confrontation, and it is quite clear that there should be no confrontation, but it does not remove the fact that we must be able to tell the truth if this were to happen, as it were, what it would mean for future generations. Well, I do think it's a matter of fact that we have to have a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u151	Mr President! The most important message that Parliament can send on this issue is, in fact, the two things that have come out very strongly here. On the one hand, we will ensure that we are able to combat the poverty of pensioners, which is a problem in society at the moment, but equally important and even, if you ask yourself, the more important message is that we will ensure that in these matters the right of the generations is achieved in the final analysis. When these two things are combined, the result will be that the outcome will not be possible with this citizens' initiative. We cannot promise that we will go back to the pay index, because if we did, then we would eat from the table of future generations. It cannot be that an increasing number of people are facing an increasing burden, and I hope that this Parliament will send this message together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u152	Mr President! I would like to return to the fact that, after lengthy and difficult negotiations, the pension reform came into force right from the beginning of the year. It is worth remembering that this pension reform has been built in such a way as to prolong working lives and safeguard the sustainability of this pension system. Indeed, it is intended to secure reasonable pension contributions and to secure sensible pensions for future generations. This system has now achieved the intergenerational pension promise that we must keep, regardless of these citizens' initiatives. What we need to find the answer to is precisely this pensioner poverty, which, unfortunately, as has already been said here many times, will not be resolved through this initiative, but will require other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u153	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u154	Mr President! In the autumn, I met an old lady who lived alone in the Turku market. He was very distressed by the increased medical expenses. The lady’s doctor had advised her to eat a little better, but with tears she asked me that if she eats a little better one day, what will she eat in the end of the month and with what money to buy the drugs? These situations are too familiar in the everyday lives of too many elderly people. Thirteen per cent of pensioners are low incomes, equal to the average for the whole population. However, poverty among pensioners is the highest among those living alone. The highest number of low-income pensioners is among those aged over 75 living alone, of which one in four, 25%, is low-income. Up to 27 per cent of women living alone are low incomes. Statistical data that, on average, the purchasing power of pensioners is slightly higher than the European average or that the income gap between pensioners is lower than the EU average, does not give much comfort to the situation of a low-income pensioner. This year the government has cut the national pension index by 0.85% and has also frozen the index for the next three years. This cut is targeted at the smallest benefits linked to the national pension index, such as national pension and housing allowance for the pensioner. As early as last year, the government allowed the level of benefits to fall by 0.4 per cent as the national pension index went down. So the situation will now deteriorate after the government has even frozen the index for the next three years. Even if costs increase, national pensions, for example, do not increase. This cutting from the lowest income is unacceptable to us Social Democrats. Mr President! Poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems that need to be addressed. The best way to improve the status of the most low-income pensioners is to increase the guarantee pension and improve the level of national pension. Reducing taxation is also an effective means of improving income, although this does not help the least-incomed. Good ways to improve the position of a low-income pensioner are also the reduction of service charges and caps, the improvement of the level of medical benefits, the development of housing allowance and the development of care support for pensioners — quite the opposite of what the government has done. The SDP wishes to draw up a programme of measures to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. Special attention should be paid here, especially to the situation of older women and those receiving small occupational pensions, who are at the highest risk of poverty. At the same time, options for raising national pension levels and improving taxation should be explored, as well as the impact of housing allowance, services and service charges for pensioners. Mr President! Today we are dealing with the transformation of the National Pensions Index into a full index of earnings, i.e. a citizens' initiative in this respect, into an index of 100% of pensions that would follow wage developments instead of the current 20%. The initiative was signed by almost 85,000 citizens. It is important that we deal with this matter, which has been addressed to pensioners for a very long time, in depth and look at the possibilities of doing so. However, it should be borne in mind that this initiative relates exclusively to occupational pensions and that the change in the employment pension index does not improve the situation of people receiving national pensions or guaranteed pensions, i.e. the most vulnerable elderly people. Pensions in payment have long been about half the average wage of Finns, 52 per cent last year. For future pensioners, this level will fall to 46% after 2030. However, all generations receive more pension than they have paid. Those born in the 1940s will receive an occupational pension about five times as much as they pay. The generation of my own children, i.e. those born in the 1990s, will receive less, i.e. twice as much as they pay. It should also be borne in mind that in the 1960s there were eight times the number of working-age people compared to the number of retirement-age-age groups, whereas today there are only three times the number of working-age people. In the future, the number will be less than two. For future generations, our children and their children, that is, there will be plenty of pension liabilities. It is therefore important that pension funds should then be sufficient. Mr President! This pension index initiative is largely based on the fact that pension funds have overfunded their future pension liabilities. In recent years, the Centre's projections have been based on a return of 3.5%, but the funds have produced 4% between 1996 and 2015 and 4.6% between 2010 and 2015 and up to 5.2% in 2015, i.e. more than the estimated 3.5%. Thus, pension funds have actually grown more than estimates. However, there are dark clouds in the sky of pension fund returns. Many economists predict that a period of low investment returns will become permanent, new normal. The Finnish Centre for Pensions has now decreased its return expectations to 3 per cent. However, it is possible that pension funds do not even produce that much, but, for example, only 2%. It is important, therefore, that funds should not go unreasonably into liquidation so that the money for pension liabilities is not enough, but that future pensions should be cut or pension contributions raised briskly. Of course, the situation must be constantly examined and decisions taken accordingly. It is important that we deal with this initiative here in Parliament and in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in depth. We need to have an account of what the expectations of pension funds are based on, how realistic that estimated 3% return is, and what if the returns fall from what is expected. On the other hand, we must also consider how we will act fairly, both for current and future pensioners, if the funds are to produce more than expected: will the pension index be changed in a more wage-oriented direction or will pension contributions be reduced? It is also good to have an account of what the forecasts will look like if the employment pension index is changed from the current 20-80 model to even slightly more than the present one, such as the 70-30 or the mid-term index. There's been a lot of talk about these things. A great deal is also said about the dynamic effects of improving the purchasing power of pensioners on purchasing power and on our economy. They have not yet been evaluated, and they too need to be clarified. The most important thing, however, is to start drawing up an action programme immediately to reduce pensioner poverty and secure the livelihood of pensioners. The government should begin its work without delay. Each elderly person has earned a decent income, where money is good enough for both food and medicine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u155	Mr President! The pension system is indeed an important part of our welfare society, and that is why the debate is very important. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we are going to go through the initiative before us very carefully, and I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative. For the sake of clarity, it is worth noting that the initiative under discussion does not address the position of the poorest pensioners. In fact, it is stated at the very end of the pension initiative that this initiative does not concern the poorest pensioners and their cause should then be improved by raising the level of pensions, the level of guaranteed pensions and the provision of public services. This is what this government, the Sipilä government, does. Next year we will increase the guarantee pension. It was raised a few minutes ago. It is certainly not a sufficient measure, but more action is needed to ensure that the most low-income pensioners actually get along. For the sake of clarity, it is good to say what this initiative is about. In the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, we really think it is important to ensure the functioning and fairness of the pension system. We really respect the work done by the retired age groups to build a Finnish welfare society, and I would like to say that every pensioner deserves a sufficient income. But then to this initiative. What would it mean if this initiative were adopted? The initiative would increase the pension income of people on retirement, but, as I said, it would not improve the position of pensioners on the lowest level of retirement or the poorest. But where would this money be taken from? Is there an extra money somewhere? This debate has taken place, at least on that part of the Social Democrats, as if there was an extra money somewhere. No, there's no extra money, not even in employment pension funds. If this initiative were adopted in this form, then the bill would be sent in full to future and unborn generations, and that would be unfair, and we cannot accept it in the assembly. In the interests of honesty, it is also necessary to say and evaluate the current legislation on occupational pensions. After all, together we adopted a new employment pension legislation in Parliament. It was good in many ways, but the fact is that young people already have to pay significantly higher pension contributions than previous generations — this is so that young people do not get better pensions in proportion. If you look at pension contributions from those born in 40, it is about 10%, and if you look at those who start working now, it is 25%, that is, young people are already taking responsibility. The proposed change in the indexation of occupational pensions in that initiative would therefore be financed by the dismantling of existing pension funds, but, as I said, those funds are certainly not extra money, they are earmarked, they are intended to enable us to pay future pensions. After all, at the moment pensions are financed by the employment pension contributions of those in work, which is three quarters, and the remaining one quarter is financed by the incomes and capital of the funds, which means that we are already eating the capital of the occupational pension funds. The funds are for us to equalise the burden, the promise that we will be able to pay pensions when there are fewer people at work, less and less in relation to Finns who are receiving a pension. That wage index proposed by the initiative would mean, if it were to be calculated as an increase in the employees' contribution, that we are talking about an increase of at least 6 percentage points, and that would indeed undermine the competitiveness of our country, would reduce the purchasing power of employees. Then, in the long run, we would be going to crush the little thread of growth that we have now had. I would like to say here, Mr President, that the most important thing about our entire system of occupational pensions is that we have good employment, and no action must be taken to put a brake on that employment or put any obstacles to it. But, Mr President, we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists are prepared to go through this initiative very carefully and that is what we are going to do. We have a public hearing in which we consult experts on a very large scale. But, at the end of the day, I would like to underline that the pension system, that is, the shift of every generation to be a donor and recipient, is indeed based on a generation pact. That initiative in its form, as it has been brought here in Parliament, would unfortunately dismantle this generation agreement, and that is why I cannot support it. I have already said that it is truly regrettable that, among young people, credit for our pension system has deteriorated, and that is a very serious matter. Therefore, the sustainability of the pension system must be constantly monitored. Although we have quite a fresh new employment pension legislation, we must be prepared to take new measures and constantly assess that our pension system is not under threat so that we can keep the promise to future generations as well. I think it is very important that we maintain the faith of Finnish young people in the future and also in our occupational pension system, which is an essential part of the Finnish welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u156	Mr President! I am pleased that there has been a great deal of consensus in the Chamber that we need to take action to ease the situation of pensioners who are going to be the least able. For example, it is easy to agree with the speech of the Social Democrats and the youngest representative of Parliament as a whole, Mr Nurminen. That is a good way to describe the situation in Finnish society, and that is certainly an idea that we can all easily agree with. Mr Räsänen also expressed these views and many others in this Chamber. Perhaps the way in which the SDP's party meeting responded to this same question was something that was also good in this debate. After all, there was a direct suggestion at the SDP party meeting that this citizens' initiative in 1591 should be taken forward in this form, and, as was pointed out here by Mrs Kiljunen, the assembly did not support this initiative, but was in exactly the same line as we have been in this debate from the left to the right, that we should look first and foremost for the means by which we address the smallest of all those who are to take action. We have a lot of those who get along poorly with today's pensions. Nearly one third of pensioners have fallen below the official poverty line — 470,000 of them — and over 100,000 Finns hold on to the minimum pension. That's where we'll have to put those bets now, if we can find them. As Mr Sarkomaa pointed out above, I also agree that the committee is working very hard to find solutions in the context of this initiative, above all so that we can help those whose livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u157	Mr President! Thank you, all citizens' initiativers! In fact, when I was in those squares and turbulents now and even then before the parliamentary elections, this folded index talked a lot of people. In recent times, I have been increasingly associated with low-income workers for 40 to 50 years, especially women who talk about their money being insufficient and what they are doing when pensions do not rise and expenditure increases. This is a real big worry. I think it was very important to point out in these speeches, as everyone here unanimously has said, that this citizens' initiative as such will not solve the problem of what is being done with us people on low incomes and those living in poverty there. We need to invest more in them. Guarantee pension increases are by no means sufficient, and of course we have made minor changes, such as the abolition of Yle-tax from the 300,000 lowest incomes. But, of course, I understand that when you live there in your everyday life, it will not be much comfort then. There has also been a debate here about the wealth of pension funds and their adequacy. Pension assets amount to between 180 and 183 billion, and perhaps now, when these revenues come, are 190 billion, then on that page of the employment pension institution I looked at the calculation of pension liabilities at the moment, however, at EUR 600 billion. If we look at the differences between men and women in pensions, there is a difference of more than hundreds of euros and women's pension averages 66% of men's pensions. That is a really big difference when we think that you will live alone and receive more than a hundred euros less pension than a man in a similar position. That is one thing we should pay attention to. I was familiar with the various calculations and membranes of the employment pension institution and then I thought that if this were to be carried out as it has been stated here — which, of course, would be a wonderful thing, even if I had nothing to do with it, it would be a great thing, because, at the time, many of us have assumed decades ago, when this pension system was created, that indexes would come and that purchasing power would always be maintained — around 2060 — all right, it seems at the moment that, well, there is still a great deal of time to do so, but decades are going rather fast — according to the shipyard's calculations, the situation would be that when pension funds run out, then either pensions would have to be cut by one third or, or then, the current pension contributions would have to be increased by about 10%. Imagine if we suddenly had to pay 10% more or we had to cut one third. I have already said here that this should not be taken as a confrontation, because we must now be able to talk about facts. I agree with what the elderly sometimes say to me, that they feel that they are a burden to society. And I feel like they're rich. At least without my own parents and elderly relatives, I couldn’t get along at all. They help me with everything and give me a great deal of wise advice, and I absolutely want our elderly to have good old age. I myself have been thinking about such a thing when I met the people of the employment pension institution here — we were also thinking about the pension ceiling that I am not going to go to — and there was also their lawyer there, and I asked whether it was ever thought about that if the index were to be returned to the smaller pensions, that at this stage it would be forgotten that surely the better-earned are better off — we, for example, at the moment when the tax reductions for pensioners came, when it was a progressive percentage table, of course, it would favour those who would then receive a larger pension — so could it be possible that the index would not be frozen there in the lower income categories, and he said that, well, these things have never been thought about and never thought about just what it would cost. I do not know whether the committee has the opportunity to go this far, but we could, for example, think about it, because simply raising the guarantee pension will not remove the issue, the group that, for example, is in contact with me and enjoys a small pension. They are not entitled to a guarantee pension. They get between EUR 1000 and EUR 1500 a month in hand, and they feel that this is not going to work out at all when I always have this same income. Of course, prices are also rising and everything of this kind so that I would ask the committee to think about it. In conclusion, from the calculations of the employment pension institution I took it this way that if there were now a 1% increase in these occupational pensions and thought that there would be a ton of pension per month and then part of an employment pension and part of a national pension, i.e. an earnings-related pension of EUR 670 and a national pension of EUR 330, then this increase would then be in this lower income category of 6,70. If this were to be carried out as such under this citizens' initiative, then, here in the larger income category, the EUR 3000 income category, that increase would then be EUR 30, because it is entirely earnings-related pension. We must look for solutions to this, but given that we cannot really eat all that wealth as such, I would like us to consider whether it would be possible for this to be carried out in some way with some degree of focus. I guess there's a lot of other ways to figure out how it could be, but specifically targeted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u160	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to restore the employment pension index to the wage level index has now progressed here in Parliament's plenary session. There has been an important and excellent debate on this subject, and I would also like to bring a younger generation's perspective to this debate. After all, the initiative suggests that the current folded index should be abandoned and moved to a fully pay-oriented index and that this would solve the problem of pensioner poverty. After all, this is an absolutely important objective; in Finland, pensioner poverty is a problem that should be addressed, but unfortunately the means of this initiative to achieve it are wrong. In the fight against poverty among pensioners, increases in national pensions and guaranteed pensions, tax reductions and the level of service charges and benefits are at the heart of this, and we need a programme of measures to tackle these problems. Then, in the debate on the index, it is probably honest to say that if we want to make things easier for those with the lowest earnings-related pensions, we would be discussing something other than going back to a fully wage-oriented index. If this citizens' initiative were to be adopted, it would lead to far-reaching consequences in our pension system that would be felt in decades' time. It is no wonder, therefore, that almost all the experts in the pension system have rejected this initiative, because it would be the case that those born before 1970 would benefit and then pay for it. When talking about a Finnish pension system, it is essential to take into account the fairness of generations. According to all estimates, young people are entering an economically and socially more uncertain world than their predecessors. Various studies have shown that the so-called generation Y is becoming the first generation in history to be poorer than its predecessor. At the same time, however, it is noted that the burden of the younger generation on the costs of ageing will increase. It is no longer difficult to fit an even greater burden on pensions into this equation. The current system, which includes a folded index, guarantees sustainable development that also guarantees pensions for young people. The return to the wage index under the citizens' initiative would be in stark contradiction from the perspective of intergenerational fairness. Perhaps the main problem with the initiative is that it does not take account of developments in occupational pension contributions. Pension contributions have risen by over one third since the 1990s. The difference is significant between the pension costs paid by current pensioners in their working lives and those currently paid by those in employment. The second problem is that according to Statistics Finland, the median income of young people under the age of 25 has fallen by 6 percentage points over the period 2010-2014 and, at the same time, the median income of pensioners has risen significantly. This does not mean that pensioners are not strict, but it simply tells us where we are from a generational perspective. And now that the impact of pension contributions is actually being put on this, we come to the point where the younger age group pays a higher pension debt than the lower income. Everyone understands that this equation is quite challenging. And if this initiative were to take place, the contributions for younger generations should be increased by another 6 percentage points — or, correspondingly, in the future pensions should be cut. I do not think anyone in this Chamber is in favour of either option. I believe that even the younger generation will continue to pay their fair share of the old age guaranteed by the elderly and pensions for pensioners. A disproportionate burden cannot be piled up for young people already living in uncertainty. When the signatories of this citizens' initiative have often stated that they are withdrawing their support from the initiative if it is contrary to the interests of young people, this should have already happened in the light of the facts. I hope that instead of discussing this return to a fully pay-oriented index, we will focus on the measures that will actually help us to tackle pensioner poverty and thus also improve the position of low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u161	Mr. Speaker! When dealing with a citizens' initiative, it must always be treated with respect. It takes time to take a big initiative, and it has looked for very specific facts, calculations based on the same figures from which we have left, but it has also reached some other conclusions. In any case, however, it is good that attention has been paid in this way to an important issue, namely the status of pensioners and pensioner poverty. However, I cannot support this initiative, even though Kimmo Kiljunen is an old chess buddy of mine from this Parliament at the turn of the millennium. I'm sure Kimmo remembers that we had a third chess buddy, but it was the castle that got her killed, that presidential castle. Mr President! Why am I not in favour of this initiative? This is justified, among other things, by small pensions, but the index change under this initiative does not really affect those who receive the smallest pensions, i.e. national pensioners and guarantee pensioners, as has been said many times here. Of these, one can also mention the fact that if a person on a national pension moves to Sweden, for example, in order to be close to his children, he will not even receive the guarantee pension, but a mere national pension. The second problem with the proposal will be there in the future, and that too has been mentioned in many speeches. If the proposed index were to be introduced, there would certainly be some improvement in pensions for current workers over a few years, but what about our children and grandchildren? My oldest child is about to retire in just over 20 years. I wonder what his pension would be. And while we're going to have another 20 years, my first grandchild is about to retire. I wonder what his pension might be. Their world is not the same as ours, that there has been work and a steady job and a steady income, and now I have a good pension, and I do not really need that index increase. Future generations live on temporary jobs and may even be unemployed for long periods of time. In addition to this potential index change, how does it still affect their pension? If these pension funds, which are safe for future pensions, are started to eat away these days, then my 20 - year - old son will receive a significantly lower pension compared to his current income than I have received and the children of our children will pay higher pension contributions. Are we supposed to get these kids into misery? It is not a Finnish tradition to wish our children a worse life than it is for themselves. Is it not a Finnish tradition that we always wish our children and grandchildren better than ourselves? Mr President! According to the calculations made by employment pension schemes, the current rules will have a level of between 45% and 46% of the corresponding wage level over the coming decades. It's reasonably good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u162	Mr President! There has been a good and proper debate here today on this important issue. Thank you to all the speakers present. This is the kind of conversation we should have here more often. I am pleased that everyone in this Chamber has also admitted that pensioner poverty is serious, and I think it is even a shameful problem in our society. I find it shameful that older people are also seeing more and more in bread queues, and so the money is not even enough for food or even for people to choose between food or medicine. I have already had to say to many pensioners on low incomes this winter that they are entitled to income support, but they feel that applying for income support is so humiliating that they prefer to reduce their daily expenses. This is now one of the biggest problems in our society and the big shame. Mr President! This initiative is a good and valuable one, and I hope, or indeed I believe, that this initiative will be carefully addressed in committee, and when I hear that there is also an open consultation coming up, I thought it would be a very good idea to extend this debate further. The programme of measures to reduce poverty among pensioners is more than necessary. All possible means must be taken into consideration, and solutions must also be found in this review to facilitate the situation of people on low retirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u163	Mr President! Poverty among pensioners is a major problem that Parliament must stop at. The age groups that built Finland deserve economically secure pension years. On the other hand, at a time when pensioner poverty has become an increasing problem, the number of high-income pensioners has grown in recent years. The inequality of pensioners is thus increasing, which should be taken into account when considering the pension system. The change in price and wage ties in the indexation of occupational pensions presented in the initiative will not remove these problems. Percentage increases increase income differentials and do not narrow them down. The greater the pension, the greater the increase. For the poorest pensioners, this citizens' initiative gives nothing or improves their position. For those who enjoy large pensions, this initiative would, on the other hand, give much. The initiative would also increase the already large income gap between women's and men's pensioners. In order to reduce the poverty of pensioners and reduce the income gap between pensioners, the most important thing is to increase the national pension and guarantee pension and to reduce the level of cuts in national pensions and occupational pensions, thus helping those receiving small occupational pensions. In addition, the spouse's pension should be waived. The Left Alliance has developed a programme of measures to reduce pensioner poverty and reduce income disparities and we offer it to others. In addition to pension, the price of living, the level of medical and travel allowances and the social welfare and health care charges also affect the income of pensioners. The current government has cut national pensions and medical and travel allowances and increased service charges. This makes it particularly difficult for old-age pensioners with high levels of disability. Mr President! We need to improve the income of pensioners. However, the index set out in the citizens' initiative presents problems which make it unsupportable as such. The present wage index would increase the income gap for pensioners and would not help the lowest-income ones. It would also jeopardise the sustainability of the pension system. Occupational pension funds are large, but so are pension liabilities. If it were not for the funds and their profits, the contributions would be considerably higher. Pension contributions have no longer been sufficient for pensions in recent years and the difference is covered from investment assets. According to the official calculations of the Finnish Centre for Pensions, the transition to the wage index presented in the citizens' initiative would mean either the emptying of pension funds or a fair increase in pension contributions. If the change were financed through the dismantling of the funds, they would be completely depleted in more than 40 years, and then all pensions should be fully covered from the contributions of employees and employers, which would mean an estimated 35 % increase in TyEL contributions to the current 24.4% or a reduction in the level of pension security. This would not be fair to working and future pensioners. Employment pension contributions are already well higher than in previous decades. Additional increases would reduce employment and make a big gap in the pockets of employees. This, on the other hand, would create pressure to reduce taxation and thereby cut public services. Mr President! The majority of pensions for pensioners are paid by those working at each time, since only part of the pensions are paid from the funds. It should be noted that the relationship between contributors to occupational pension contributions and pensioners has changed substantially. When the earnings-related pension scheme was created in the 1960s, there were 8 employees for each pensioner. Now the ratio is 3, and by 2060 the figure is estimated to shrink to 2. This cannot be ignored when considering the sustainability of the pension system. Mr President! It is up to Parliament to develop the pension system in such a way that it ensures a fair and fair pension now and in the future without an excessive financial burden on employees or public finances. If the development of pension funds and employment developments prove more positive than anticipated, it is better to increase occupational pensions and lower occupational pension contributions instead of increasing pension funds. Expansion of pension funds is not an absolute value. However, due to the reduction in the number of people employed and the uncertainty of investment returns, this does not necessarily happen, and we need to develop the pension system on a precautionary basis, so that future pension liabilities can also be secured. However, I hope that the committee will take a very careful look at this situation in the funds. Mr President! However, we would need a new, fairer index, an employment pension index where small pensions would grow faster than large ones. The index model for occupational pensions outlined by the Finnish Federation of Pensioners is an interesting initiative. In the EKL proposal, the indexation model for occupational pensions, which narrows income differentials, consists of a fixed percentage adjustment and a fixed part in euro on top of it. In part, the euro-based increase model would benefit those receiving small occupational pensions more than just a percentage increase, which will benefit most of all the high-income ones. Moreover, according to their own assessment, the EKL proposal would not jeopardise the sustainability of the occupational pension scheme and the financing of future pensions, and should therefore be carefully examined. Mr President! I really hope that there will be a shared will in Parliament to reduce and eliminate pensioner poverty. At least today, in this Chamber, that will state has been expressed, but action is also needed. Unfortunately, the current government has cut national pensions and otherwise weakened the livelihoods of low-income pensioners, which is not in line with this line, but hopefully the tone will change now. I hope that the committee will consider ways of reducing pensioners' poverty, building a stable pension system and improving the employment pension index more fairly for small occupational pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u164	Mr President! I'm just wondering where I'm going to put it. When we have had a young generation of speeches here and then we have had little, you can say, an older generation of speeches, I wonder that I am probably in the middle of it, when there are still twenty years left to retire. Just as a few others here have wondered, ‘ Are you going to retire or what will happen? ’ But hopefully we will be able to make such a policy that we all have the opportunity to have a reasonable pension when it comes to it. First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. You have taken the initiative to raise the issue of pensioners strongly. I do not remember when so much has been said about the livelihood of pensioners and the formation of pensions. I do not think that many of us would have been able to learn how our pension system works without this debate. One might say that the debate on pensions and their determination is a matter for each of us, both young and older. It is clear that pensioners have earned their pensions, who have worked hard in their lives. Many retired people have started, can say, their work trail early, some of them directly from primary school just into puberty or just passed it. Many at that time did not raise any pension, and in that respect it is not shown there in the funds either. We future pensioners can be grateful for the work with which Finland has become so English, which we today face every day. To the question of what role our pensioners play, you can say that pensioners are in many ways people who raise national incomes, as the authors of the initiative have said: resources. We can see pensioners as consumers, volunteers, family carers and the care of grandchildren. It is precisely for this reason that there should be no confrontation between young and old when dealing with the citizens' initiative. It is up to us to consider how we can create a basis for discussion and analysis in which we guarantee equality of treatment between generations and also the sustainability of the pension system in a long-term perspective. In the meeting we have seen the issues of pensioners as very important, and in particular the strengthening of purchasing power. We want everyone to get on with their retirement. For our part, we have also focused on the means that have been reasonably quick to implement in political decision-making. For example, the government has paid attention to the taxation of pensioners. Just this year, the government has reduced the taxation of pensioners by more than EUR 100 million and, in the past, has also increased the guarantee pension. In addition, the guarantee pension will be increased again in 2018, when it can be said that it will be the government’s solution to retirement poverty. It can of course be said that this is certainly not enough, because, as has been pointed out here in several speeches, the many pharmaceutical costs for pensioners, which have been raised, are not enough. That's obvious. There's no way out of it. But on the other hand, we also have charges at municipal level that we, every municipal decision-maker, can influence. In future regional reform and also in future municipalities, it is important that pensioners in different income categories are also able to use the services and participate actively in various leisure activities organised by municipalities. What about pensions and their development? The current pension index is also good. It follows very closely the development of purchasing power, although it does not look so strongly at the way in which the wage level comes. In practice, purchasing power will be reasonably secure in the current calculation model of the pension index. One point that should also be raised in this sitting: When the pension indices were cut a few years ago, it is clear that this should not be done again. In future, we will need to give full consideration to the increases in pension indices that belong to those who earn our earnings-related pension. On the other hand, if we were to introduce an initiative in the indexes, what would this lead to? There is already an unfair situation between generations today: the rate of pension income for those born in 1945 is 5%, compared with 2.2% for those born in 95. If we were to accept the initiative, we could say that the generation gap [The President knocks ] It is clear that the transparency and transparency of pension companies must be increased and an explanation must be made of how we could involve pensioners in pension companies' boards of directors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u165	Mr President! I've turned 65, and I don't have to kiss nobody's ass on this one. It is a good thing that this initiative has now raised the issue of low-income pensioners, the fact that far too many pensioners have to put up with far too low incomes, for example, to consider whether to buy decent food or medicines. However, as many colleagues have already said, this initiative will not help the issue of low-income pensioners at all. I hope that the issues raised in this debate, and also the statement by the SDP's recent party meeting, that we need to draw up a programme of action to overcome pensioner poverty, will now be in the wind. As many have already said, this initiative would benefit the highest-income ones most and would empty pension funds at a time when my own generation and those older than us are in the grave. Younger people would either have to cope with their old age without a pension or pay even higher pension contributions than they are now. In this debate, for example, Mrs Eloranta has already pointed out that, on average, my own generation, i.e. those born around 50, will receive about three times as much as we have paid pensions during our working life, but according to current legislation, the age groups of those aged three to forty will receive about two times the amount of pensions they have paid. If this initiative were to be implemented, this gap would be even more severe. One thing that has not been mentioned at all in this debate is that since the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme was launched and the original model was created, life expectancy has increased dramatically. Of course, it is easy in itself to seek support from pensioners by telling them that pensioners have been deceived when the pension index has been changed to less favourable over the years. But what we have received, what was never promised at the time in the 60s and 70s, but what we have received, is a longer life. The life expectancy of men is now almost 20 years longer than it was in the 1960s and that of women well over 10 years longer, and I think it is a very good deal. At least I think it is a good thing that we live on average longer, even if the pension index is not as generous as it was originally calculated, which would be possible. All in all, I would like to see us who are a little older in the debate on pensions remember the fairness of generations. For example, I can broadly agree with what Mr Räsänen said, and I was also very pleased when Mr Niilo Keränen said that it was part of Finnish thinking that we were trying to guarantee children and grandchildren a better life than we ourselves have had. This should also be the leader of the pension debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u166	Mr President! Once again, thank you very much for having taken this initiative. It really deserves a thorough examination, and I believe that the committee, at least the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and possibly others who are dealing with this, will also do so. It's extremely important. A little can be reminiscent of history: in the 1960s, when the earnings-related pension scheme was created, there was a 100 % wage link in the index, and then in the 1970s there was a 50-50 level and then in the 1990s and early 2000s there was a permanent 80-20 level, i.e. only a 20 % wage ratio. Of course, it can be said that the pension is a deferred payment of wages, and in that respect there would be a logical reason for it to follow up on wage developments. But in the '70s it was said that it would lead to absolutely impossible, as the pension rose much faster than wages. And here we are. The author of the initiative was then here in Parliament, and now he's driving it back to the '60s. Of course, sometimes it's good to look back. I myself have probably voted ten times in this Parliament over the last thirty years, and of course I have always lost, and Mr Gustafsson has agreed with me, on the side of pensioners, but we are now in this situation. When you have been in the government, you have not corrected, and now that the Finns are in the government, it is not in the government programme, and I believe that when there is no such thing in the government programme, this is probably not what the government is doing this season, but hope must then be put in the next government, where the Social Democrats may even be involved. That is why, with particular interest, I have listened to the speeches of the Social Democrats on this initiative and wondered a little about the fact that there has been a leading number of resignations. But we'll wait there. On the other hand, I comfort pensioners by the fact that, now that we are living in the time of the kiky agreement, wages are not rising at the moment, on the contrary, they may even fall slightly — but prices are rising, which means that the current index 80 to 20 is cheaper for pensioners than this pure wage index, which is unfortunately presented in the initiative. Certainly no one is going there, not even Mr Gustafsson. He also said that 10 percentage points a year would go to 50-50, and I think that would be good, well-considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u169	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to begin by thanking the authors of the initiative for bringing a very important issue to the debate. There is something to be done about the livelihood of pensioners; that is something we must all admit. In the same breath, it must also be said that the issue is not unambiguous, as has been demonstrated in many speeches today in this Chamber. It is now worth having this debate in depth and, in particular, seeking the best targeted measures to improve the position of low-income pensioners. I believe that we will be able to move forward without jeopardising the pensions of future generations and with a strong view to the will of the signatories to this initiative. Mr President! When it comes to the whole of occupational pensions, the starting point is always the income linked to the earnings level of the working life and its purchasing power. Another starting point is the adequacy of pension assets, i.e., overall, the need for adequate pensions to be able to pay now and in the future. The answer to this has been the tying of occupational pensions to the wage and purchasing power index. When we go to the level of everyday life where we representatives are looking for feedback on this work, we find very quickly that even the smallest occupational pensions are not enough to live. Now retired generations are used to coping on their own, and they are not asking for help to make a living, even if there is a genuine need for it. This results in situations where food or medicines begin to compromise. Apart from the fact that these stories are rife to hear in those turbulent and squares, socially these situations are extremely unreasonable because they lead to a loss of fitness, health and functional ability. There is absolutely no point in talking about preventive services or about the fact that older people should be able to live at home longer if these basic essentials I have mentioned are not even in order. Our earnings-related pension system is based on the idea that the well-being of pension periods is built from work and that the earnings-related pension is based on earned wages for everyone on an equal basis according to the same principles. This must be maintained in terms of the sustainability and acceptability of the pension system. At the same time, however, it will be difficult to increase the pensions of low-income pensioners as they should be increased to all income categories and then the euro-denominated impact will be greater in these larger pensions. Of course, at the same time, these increases will be quite costly in their entirety. Mr President! In terms of the livelihood of the most low-income pensioners, it is important that we be able to increase the level of guaranteed pensions and national pensions. There is also a need, as I said earlier in my speech, to increase on the side of occupational pensions. There too, people will wonder whether they are taking medicines today or eating enough food. I would argue that it is even more important for the whole to look at the level of several service charges and different benefits. These provide simpler solutions to the situation of pensioners than increases in pensions. It is very regrettable that during this parliamentary term the government has moved in a direction that undermines the livelihoods of pensioners, including by increasing customer fees. But in the spirit of honesty, every party has a place to look in the mirror when we talk about the income problems of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u172	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is a service in that our pension system and its structure have certainly been dealt with much more recently than in a long time. And one can say that this debate has attracted the interest of all the citizens. This has been shared by retired people, working as well as young people whose retirement age is still a long way off. Similarly, pensioner poverty and the search for its solutions are essential. The strength of the Finnish pension system is that we have been able to conclude an intergenerational agreement, i.e. that each generation in turn pays not only those own pensions but also those pensions that are already retired. This means that our system is, so to speak, partly funded. When I was a mep in the European Parliament, we in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs had an excellent opportunity to look at the pension systems of the various countries, and it must be said that the Nordic systems, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands are all a little of their own, but are still one where we can see that the money will also be sufficient for the pensioners of the future. On the other hand, many Eastern European systems and systems in southern Europe are indeed, I could say, very worryingly weak, and I am not surprised at the increased voices in Europe, many of which believe that these pension systems should also be brought within the scope of EU regulations and perhaps have some common EU pension schemes. The strength of the Finnish system is also that our pension system has been passed away from our policies by legislation. I say this because, for example, in Hungary some time ago, when the bottom of the state treasury began to run, the pension funds that people had saved were taken as a cover for the state budget. This partly funded pension system means that we will still have sufficient funds to pay pensions in the future, even if the dependency ratio is deteriorating. Now, pension assets have been funded in various locations, amounting to EUR 181 billion. It certainly sounds like an extremely large amount of money. This wealth, on the one hand, and its revenues, on the other, are the buffer that will not only be able to cover these current pension expenditures but also to prepare for future pension expenditure. Pension expenditure is currently high and is being paid out of those funds more than in, because at present the baby boomers are retiring and are retiring. However, that 181 billion sum amounts to 25 per cent of the total pension liabilities of people currently living in Finland. In other words, people currently living in Finland have pension liabilities of about EUR 700 billion, and this is good to keep in mind when considering whether it is 181 billion large or small. In other words, when European pension systems have been examined, it has been said that it is precisely that 25% limit that will, in the future, guarantee that pensioners of the future, today's young people, will also have their own pensions. Pension expenditure is indeed at a high level at the moment. On average, we pay around 24% of the wages and salaries, while in the 1970s people in employment have paid around 7% of them. There is, of course, a background to the experience of unfairness that those born in the 40s will receive a real interest rate of around 5% for these own contributions, while those born in the 70s will only receive a profit of two per cent for pension contributions. But it is important to understand that all generations will still receive a higher pension than they have paid for those contributions inside. This has been made possible by the fact that income levels have been constantly increasing, and also by the so-called interest rate of these pension funds. Sometimes you hear people in that market saying you should at least get your own payments back. It would be shocking if we could only get those own contributions back as a pension. No one would live on it when they retired. And that is why, when we talk about this pension system, it is good for us to understand that, although there are certainly some things to be done in this system of ours, this is, however, when we compare and compare internationally, one of the most sustainable and best-designed pension systems in Europe. Now for this initiative. According to the initiative, if we were to act now, it would mean that, as several colleagues have already said here, the income gap between pensioners would increase very rapidly and the beneficiaries of the largest pensions would benefit greatly. On the other hand, the lowest incomes, those on guaranteed pensions and national pensions, are of no benefit. But it is extremely important that this debate and its impetus should begin to reflect on the way in which this really is to be prevented, you might say, from falling into retirement poverty in Finland and in what way to improve the life situation of those people who are in a situation where they have to think about medicines or bread. Firstly, the level of national pension should be raised and also the level of guaranteed pension. And here you can say that KD has also made proposals for it this season. The government has increased the guarantee pension, but we believe that it is precisely this guarantee pension that should have been increased even more than the government's proposals have been, because that would enable us to help the most vulnerable pensioners. The taxation of the lowest pension income could then also be reduced. It should be considered that when the index of earnings is based on this kind of so-called basket, then should it change more so that it actually corresponds to the average consumption pattern of pensioners. I recall that, at least in previous years, there was a discussion of the proportion of alcohol and tobacco in the baskets, while, on average, the expenditure of pensioners is the housing costs, travel costs, related to medicines, medical care, this type of expenditure, and their weighting in such an index should then be higher. And, of course, we would take good care of these public services, and we would not allow them to fail. That way we can also help people who have to use such services as health care. That is why, from the point of view of the opposition, these social welfare plans are worrying what the government has in mind: can we really guarantee that we will receive equal services throughout Finland and that these customer charges will also remain at a reasonable level in the long term? Of course, it must be remembered that when the committee goes through this initiative and looks at the ways in which pensioners' poverty can be facilitated and how it can be improved, we would avoid a debate between the old and the young in some way. I think the best thing about this citizens' initiative is that we have really started to think about how this kind of overgeneration of responsibility we share here in Finland and how we take good care of today's retired people, but we also remember that the growing age groups of the future have also earned their own pensions and should also take care of them. Mr President! I hope that this citizens' initiative will receive a similar reading here in Parliament as citizens' initiatives should receive and that a good, thorough consultation of experts will be carried out in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u173	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank those who have taken the initiative. It has now brought us to the debate about the livelihood of pensioners and the problems associated with it, and in particular the deep concern of the most low-income pensioners and the poverty of pensioners. Secondly, it has also led many of us, including myself, to familiarise ourselves with our current pension system, which is not necessarily familiar to everyone. It is clear that retirement must be able to get along and that the situation of the most low-income pensioners must be improved. Good housing and health care services must be secured for all pensioners. The pension system must be equal and fair from the point of view of both the sexes and the generations. Therefore, the citizens' initiative to tie the employment pension index to wages should not be adopted. Although the objectives of the citizens' initiative are good, securing the income level of pensioners and preventing pensioner poverty, the proposed instrument is still a bad one. Linking occupational pensions to wages would not improve the situation of the most low-income pensioners on national pensions and guaranteed pensions. Those who struggle most with livelihood receive nothing more. The main beneficiaries of the initiative are those with the largest pension bag. The adoption of this initiative would therefore increase the income gap between pensioners when, on the contrary, we want to reduce them. Gender gaps would also widen. Women's euro is smaller than men's pensions. Poverty is piling up for older women on minimum pensions who do not benefit from this initiative. Instead, large occupational pensions, and thus raising them, are most often enjoyed by men. Mr President! The citizens' initiative now under discussion would not guarantee pensions against cyclical fluctuations. Wage-based pension could even be reduced if wages increase more slowly than prices. This has happened during the current recession. The sustainability of the pension system would also be tested. As expenditure increases, the employment pension contribution should be increased by 6 percentage points if the funds are to be balanced. On the other hand, if the reform is financed by funds in pension funds, it would dry up in a few decades. When our pension system was created in the 1960s, there were eight times as many employees as pensioners. Today, there are only three times as many workers as pensioners. An ever smaller number of workers must finance the livelihood of an ever-increasing number of pensioners, because that is how the system works. Pensions for current pensioners are funded by us, currently employed. But we'd be happy to do it. However, in the future, the financing of the pension system will lie on the shoulders of the increasingly declining age groups. The sustainability of the system is being tested and the change proposed in the citizens' initiative would make the situation even worse. We Greens want to make a policy that is also fair from the point of view of future generations. The adoption of this citizens' initiative would not be that. Mr President! The rejection of the citizens' initiative does not mean that we have also rejected pensioners on low incomes. On the contrary, we believe that the government's cuts to low-income pensioners are neither reasonable nor correct. We want to ensure that pensioner poverty does not increase. We objected to the government's decision to freeze the National Pensions Index and in autumn 2015, we put an intermediate question on the cuts against pensioners. Because we got the government to withdraw its intention to abolish the housing allowance for pensioners. In our alternative budget, we proposed that tax reductions in the competitiveness package should be targeted most strongly at low incomes. We demand that inhumane reductions in medical and travel expenses and increases in customer fees decided by the government should be cancelled. In the context of the reform of social and health services, we want to ensure that good basic services are secured for everyone. The price of medicines must be reduced by reforming the pharmacy system. There must be a single ceiling for medical, travel and customer fees. Pensioners' livelihoods must be secured and the status of the most low-income pensioners improved, but this is best achieved by means other than tying their earnings-related pension to the wage index. Mr President! Today, there has been a broad consensus in the debate on the need to tackle pensioner poverty decisively. I very much hope that these speeches will be reflected in concrete actions and improvements in the livelihood of the low-income. Finally, just before coming to the hall, the coffee table discussion brought up perhaps a rather odd point about the current pension system. With regard to this pension reform, which came into force at the beginning of this year, it became clear that you can currently work and enjoy full pay and, at the same time, increase your pension. I would have asked if this was really the intention of the legislator when this pension reform, which has now entered into force, was being carried out and, if so, why, and if not, should this be corrected? With this citizens' initiative, when the committee is dealing with the pension system and is certainly examining it in such a way as to do, it would certainly be worth checking whether this point in the current pension system was actually appropriate, which I have some doubts about, it sounds strange, and if it was not, then it should be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u174	Mr President! I spoke to a recently retired woman who had worked in the food industry for 40 years for a low-paid job. Her monthly earnings-related pension was approximately EUR 800. In addition, his position has been further weakened by recent increases in social and health care charges, higher prices of medicines, higher prices of electricity, housing and other living. It has been good to hear in this Chamber that pensioner poverty is a common concern for all of us, because it is a heartbreaking problem. I came into municipal politics 17 years ago when I was in my 20s, and since then I have listened to people’s feedback about the folded index, because that’s what’s been talking people in the marketplaces. Every party in Parliament is responsible for the fact that the situation has not yet been corrected and a citizens' initiative was called for in order to now discuss the matter and find a solution. I would therefore like to thank the author of the initiative, Kimmo Kilju, for this initiative has led to an in-depth debate here in Parliament on the poverty of pensioners. I also hope that not only will it be discussed, but it will also be given a remedy here. I also hope that the government parties will make self-criticism of their recent decisions, which have increased the poverty of pensioners. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has all the keys in its hands to make a good proposal as to what kind of change we will make possible a better income for people receiving a pension of less than EUR 1500. The government has all the keys in its hands to make it happen. I do not believe that the solution is entirely in line with the initiative, because the initiative as such does not correct pensioners' poverty. Mr Sarkomaa felt that there was no money to improve the situation of pensioners. I disagree with you on this. Firstly, we must have the courage to address the fact that the administrative costs of occupational pension insurance companies are about EUR 500 million per year and are financed from occupational pension funds. There are ten companies and over 3,000 employees in them. It is estimated that pension funds could be saved around EUR 400 million a year by combining pension companies. In this way, the money would be used to pay pensions, to what it is intended for. The argument that money does not exist also melts into the fact that when you look at the decisions that have been taken, so The Sipilä government has been able to reduce the tax burden on high incomes by hundreds of millions of euros. So there's money. It's just what they want to use it for. This same message to representative Kankaanniemi: Power gives you Finns the opportunity to act. Now you can deliver on your promise to the pensioners you made before the last election. The Parliamentary Information Service decreased how much the purchasing power of a pension changes this year with the government's tax decisions last autumn. In the case of pensioners, the government's tax reductions will produce EUR 7000 per month a monthly increase of EUR 66 per month for a beneficiary of an employment pension. At the same time, a person receiving an earnings-related pension of EUR 1500 per month will receive only EUR 10. An increase of EUR 1000 per month in earnings-related pension is round zero, and an economy of EUR 500 per month in earnings-related pension is reduced by EUR 4 per month to a minus. This is not a fair policy, but it cannot be said that there is no money. The government parties must say honestly that there is money for the rich but not for the poor. It would have been much fairer if, in this year's tax table, tax reductions of hundreds of millions of euros were only aimed at low and medium-income wage and pension beneficiaries. The benefits they would have received in euro would have been a real relief to people’s daily livelihoods. Just as the percentage reductions made by the government are for high incomes, so the percentage increases in the pension index are for high incomes and increase the income differentials between pensioners in euro and do not narrow them down, i.e. the greater the pension, the greater the percentage increase. I hope that the committee will take seriously the model published by the Confederation of Pensioners (EKL), which is cost-neutral. In the model, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health would annually confirm the index figure, the percentage of pension revisions and the euro-denominated increase in pensions. Mr President! Generations must not be placed against each other. In 50 years' time, if we are not to talk about pensioner poverty, the government should direct special treatment to young generations. The wage levels of today’s young people are lower than those of older generations when they are in the same phase of life. It also means a lower earnings-related pension for young people today. In addition, very many young people are unemployed, in temporary and shredding jobs, working on a zero-job contract and more and more people are on disability pension due to depression. They will never receive a decent earnings-related pension but will depend on a guarantee pension. The key elements of the eradication of poverty for pensioners must therefore be the euro-denominated increase in the number of small occupational pensions and the increase in national and guaranteed pensions, the reduction in social and pharmaceutical charges, and the elimination of youth unemployment and the abolition of any form of reduction in working conditions and wages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u175	Mr President! First of all, a greeting from the defence class in the Northern Brigade, which I tried to rush to this sitting, but unfortunately I did not get there at the very beginning. Thank you very much to the authors of the citizens' initiative and the Senior Movement, which has taken the initiative forward. I know that drawing up and moving the citizens' initiative and putting it into the Chamber is a huge task. Mr President! The debate on the folded index has taken a long time. In fact, it started already in 1995. The decision made in hockey World Cup was already opposed then and has been opposed in almost every political market event ever since. Pensioners have been and are very disappointed in the outcome. That is understandable, because according to the calculations, pensioners today receive hundreds of euros less pensions than if the Lipponen government had failed to take this decision. The Christian Democrats were opposed to the introduction of a folded index and have been opposed to a folded index over the years, even when there were only a few ten billion euros in the funds. Now that pension funds have grown — that is to say, they already amount to some EUR 190 billion today — I will continue along the same lines and support the citizens' initiative on the removal of the folded index. When the decision was made on the folded index, Finland had been in a recession for many years that had put us at the edge of the abyss. From 1990 to 1995, central government debt had exploded from EUR 9.5 billion to over EUR 60 billion. It was clear that all economic measures had to be introduced. The panic over the adequacy of pensions was real. Consequently, the Lipponen Government introduced a folded index — and note.: the measure was supposed to be temporary. And the money really was at that point. Thus, central government debt amounted to EUR 60 billion and pension funds to around EUR 40 billion. Now, 20 years later, the central government debt is around EUR 10 billion, but pension funds are already around EUR 190 billion. All this 20 years have been said that pension resources are dwindling and future generations will never receive their pensions. It has become the truth that has been fed. The reason for this is hard to understand. When the value of the funds was EUR 40 billion, a 5% return amounted to EUR 2 billion per year. When the value of the funds is 200 billion, the fund will increase by the same percentages by 10 billion per year. The yield of 2.5%, even then, is 5 billion a year. The future is hard to predict, but the past is a little easier. The past 20 years have shown that funds have increased from 40 billion to 190 billion. Thus, a steady split has increased by 7.5 billion a year. Government debt is a subject we hear about in this Chamber every day. There is a collective panic over it. Yesterday, however, the Prime Minister was pleased that we have not been in debt in relation to GDP any more. However, no one remembers to mention that, at the same time as we borrow money to take care of our pensioners, among others, pension funds have grown at 2.5 times the rate of government debt. At the same time, while the Senior Movement has been trying to get the voices of pensioners, Tela and the Finnish Centre for Pensions have been campaigning for a massive index. It is confusing how the same statistics can be interpreted in such a different way. It is also extraordinary that it is precisely on this issue that we can see far into the future and take decisions that will affect up to 50 years. With the same figures, one reaches a situation where the value of the funds is zero and the other reaches EUR 600 billion in its calculations. I would like to remind you of the actual calculation that I have just mentioned, which means that the average growth rate has been EUR 7.5 billion per year. It's not a fantasy. It's a measurable truth. We have been talking all along about the situation where the baby boomers retire and how we have a pension bomb in front of us. The big age groups are now retired, and the bomb has remained a dud. The information provided by the Tela has also been taken over by youth organisations which repeat the so-called fact that they have been fed about how pensioners eat from their table. Of course, they forget that the removal of the folded index also increases their own pensions. Young people’s concern that their pensions would be small as a result of this change is pointless. The pensions of today's employees will be clearly higher than those of previous generations, and so will wages. The index has been deliberately involved in public and guaranteed pensions. It's all for nothing, because we're talking about completely different things. The earnings-related pension is earnings-related and the national pension is not. When it is said that the index change would be unfair and would enrich pensioners, remember that 374000 pensioners in Finland live below the poverty line. The money for raising national and guaranteed pensions will hopefully be found in this Chamber after this debate. It is a good thing that the index debate has brought up the weakest of pensioners who hold out on national pensions alone. Additional funds for raising the lowest pensions could be found, for example, in the tax revenue generated by the increase in employment pensions. While Tela and other operators are able to present calculations over 50 years, there is no calculation of the impact of the depreciation of the folded index on the national economy. We have a pot of almost 200 billion, not even part of which is intended to free up the economy. Even with short mathematics, you can calculate how many new jobs would be created if the purchasing power of pensioners were increased and they were able to make the pension savings for them available to the extent that they were saved. There would be purchasing power, jobs, tax revenue. There would be savings in housing allowance and other social costs, which are now financed by loan money. Most importantly, pensioners would receive the income they deserve. They have done their work and built up the welfare of this country. It is clear that, in view of the low-income pensioners, flat-rate increases in pensions should be made in a fair manner. Pension poverty must be eliminated. At the same time, I think it would be necessary to have a pension ceiling for cutting excessive pensions. With regard to the removal of a folded index: When index changes are made, the situation can be considered, for example, every five or ten years — a sufficiently long time to see how the index affects, and at the same time a sufficiently short time to react to development. The folded index was originally imported as a temporary solution. I support the initiative to restore the TyEL index to a fairer wage index. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I will also work for fairer treatment of pensioners when it comes to pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u176	I would like to point out that there is no reason for applause here. — At this stage, we will continue with the list. There are so few people in the Chamber that everyone will be able to speak on time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u177	Mr President! It has just been said that if the folded index is removed, it will raise pensions. That is true, but it also increases pension contributions. And it is important to note that, if this possible change is made, the decisions to increase payments will be made at the labour market tables and not here in the Chamber. Pension policies and reforms can be implemented and the purpose of the reform is for the earnings-related pension system to adapt to the increasing life expectancy and also to safeguard young people in due course at a reasonable level of payment of the pension. This Finnish pension system is good and has been compared around the world, and this is, among other things, the only pension system that automatically takes into account a lifetime. Over a decade, the earnings-related pension scheme has been accompanied by such subtle concepts: the pension promise, the salary granted and the intergenerational chain letter. The fact is, however, that this is a statutory social insurance policy which is being reviewed from time to time, and it is now precisely that time. This earnings-related pension scheme will last in Finland if Finland gets its economy in order. We've been talking about a lot of money here. It is a significant amount, but it is the amount of pension for about 7 to 8 years if it is paid at the same time and pensions are not collected. So I think it is important that this occupational pension system is firmly held in the hands of the social partners, because if it is the case that politicians in this Chamber are too lacking in that system, then such miscalculations will come from what has been done in this Chamber in the 1990s. Such errors include, inter alia, the management of unemployment through pension policy or individual
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u178	Mr. Speaker! Representative Taavitsainen poured a heavy load on the Finns. Well, that's fine, we're in the government and we're in charge of the government, and the results are visible: Finland has strongly turned to the rise. While in 2012, 2013 and 2014 gross domestic product fell by as much as 1.2% in one year and by more than 0.5% in the other two years, GDP now increases by between 1% and 2%. In other words, a turning point has been made about the period of stagnation or, in fact, of regression that was during the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u183	Mr President! After Mr Tanus, I stayed to think about this dismantling of the pension bomb and why the pension bomb has not come. Well, there is a simple reason: the dismantling of the pension bomb has been going on for a long time, with many different ways. Take the employment pension contributions paid by wage and salary earners in private sectors as an example. In 1960, earnings-related pension contributions amounted to 5 per cent. For example, in the year that I entered the world of work, they were about 15%, and today the young person who goes into the world of work begins by paying closer to 25%, 24% and raps, and they will pay even more, which means that our pension assets have also grown to what it is today. And why has it been grown so big? Well, because we have fewer and fewer people who work and earn and pay income and pensions, which is why these reserves must be large enough for us to survive the tens of years until we have enough of those who work, in relation to pensioners. The second question relates to the other ways in which this pension bomb has been dismantled. Well, the fact that we are able to create a society in which we work more and more, and it has been brought in by its own separate solutions, which have now just become a pension legislation, and this has been done in the past. So there are two ways: firstly, there has been an increasing increase in pension contributions, and secondly, there is the fact that we are working longer and longer. They've been one of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u184	Mr President! I do not know what else to say to Mr Kankaanniemi except that you have become the leading anti-social democrat in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u191	Mr President! In this debate, when some representatives, either incomprehensible or, contrary to their better knowledge, have ignored the fact that this initiative does not at all improve the position of the poorest pensioners, a few numbers: [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude] Secondly, for those who are now mocking the fact that the pension bomb has proved to be a dummies: it is just as Mr Lauslahti said that a lot of things have been done here — in my opinion a lot of such fine-tuning, but still many — which have dismantled this pension bomb, and there are many things that have then been criticised by some of the representatives in this debate. I think it would be very irresponsible to put the future of our pension system on the basis of very optimistic profit expectations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u192	Mr President! As I said, these issues will be dealt with in greater detail in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. There has been a good debate here, and as has been said, from a wide range of points of view. I would like to raise one more point here. The current pension funds are hugely larger than what was estimated to be necessary for the creation of the system. If this pension bomb has been dismantled by raising those employers' contributions and so on, then at the same time these pension funds have been increased to huge proportions. It can be said that they are Finland's largest fund accumulations and their dominance in Finnish society is already quite great. And then, in view of the fact that it is estimated that 130 billion of these EUR 190 billion already exist in foreign investment, that 130 billion has been decoupled from Finland's national economy and transferred to finance foreign business, I might ask whether this is the right thing to do with simple mathematics, peasantism. Could this money not speed up the weak development of the Finnish economy? And then there is another matter. In Finland, the management of these pension funds has been entrusted to organisations such as the private sector. I understand that such a system is contrary to EU law and is based on the exception clause of the Finnish Accession Treaty. I understand that expert opinions have stated that even the Finnish occupational pension system is contrary to the Finnish Constitution, but once such a large concentration of power has been created, it is no longer the case that we dare to touch it. Whether this is the case or how it is, but that is what I have understood, and I find the emergence of such truths quite worrying in a democratic country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u193	Mr President! The life of a poor pensioner is here and now. It's tomorrow when I have to go to the pharmacy to buy medicine. It's the day after tomorrow when I have to go to the store to buy food. That is why it does not matter so much what has happened in history, what has been done 20 years ago or 10 years ago, but it matters what this government is doing now. Mr Kankaanniemi, you forgot to mention in your speech that this government cut the guarantee pension and the national pension index by 0.85% from the beginning of this year. Originally, in autumn 15 you had only plans to freeze the index, i.e. the guarantee pension and the national pension would not have gone up with the cost-of-living index, but those plans changed when you had to get more money for these tax cuts for the rich. Mr Kankaanniemi, I recall that you have been here in Parliament since 87 and even as a minister. You have had the opportunity to change these and to deliver on those promises and not just to blame the Social Democrats. I would now like the government to correct these shortcomings, as has been said in this Chamber today with regard to pensioners' poverty. Power gives you a chance to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u194	Mr President! I was a minister in the early '90s before the Lipponen government started these drastic cuts for pensioners,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u197	Mr President! Mr Tanus has a few comments: It doesn't matter what the pension fee is. Because it works in two ways. Firstly, the higher pension contributions we have in society — and the risk is that we will have to pay more and more contributions — the more it will also reduce the possibility of economic growth, in two ways: firstly, that when employers pay it, it means an increase in costs in person-by-person expenses, thereby reducing cost-competitiveness, and secondly, that when we employees pay an occupational pension contribution, it means that we have less money in our net hands, and if we look at it from the tax authority’s point of view, where it comes from a deduction system, it also means less tax revenue. We should think more about how we can lighten this present burden than about raising it. In practice, this is also justified in terms of economic growth. We in the committee are now going to discuss this citizens' initiative, which is an excellent thing. The ideas that have come out of this Chamber about different options and views are very much to be welcomed and we will look at this through a number of perspectives. Unfortunately, the authors of the citizens' initiative and, a little while ago, the various others are opposed to each other, so we have to think about what is also a neutral entity to come as an expert to bring that information a little from the middle, so that, as a committee, we can also see both sides of the matter, just as the coin has two sides. I would like to conclude here by saying that this mission, which the citizens' initiative makers here have, we all have:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u198	Mr President! I was actually forced to take the floor when I listened to the government focus on tax reductions for the rich. But let's take the facts as facts. This tax reduction, which came about, is linked to the acceleration of this competitiveness pact, which the government promised, provided a certain level of coverage, and it rose with its coverage. It also gave pensioners a tax rate, and it came to everyone. It was not read anywhere there that the tax bill for the rich, although this may be the way they want to launch this issue. Then again, if we are talking about this corporation tax, I looked at the statistics yesterday. When there was a discussion here on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcement of the matter, I watched these on the Internet yesterday, and the most extensive of our companies, these names and small partnerships, entrepreneurs earn about 30000 euros a year so that I would not be talking about rich people. Let's let people try. There's a shopkeeper, a hairdresser and a shoemaker, so we're not talking about rich people right now. I'm glad they're able to employ themselves. Today's debate has come about this evaluation and so on. I'm sure it's really hard. I hope that the committee will then bring us here in the Chamber to discuss various results and proposals on how to resolve this poverty and poverty, but also not forgetting these pensions of a thousand, 1500, 1800. They're not big net pensions. In the long term, how will these people maintain that ability to pay? Would that be the solution of some kind of alternativeity, the removal of the index cutter from smaller pensions, which I myself hope for? If only possible, of course, it would be nice to hear these ways, because it doesn't help anything that we're here to blame each other. Surely all parties in the government in recent years are equally responsible for this. But now I've only been here a year and a half.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u199	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the evening, and, in fact, Mrs Lauslahti was already spinning away, but I would have liked to say that I fully agree with her about the large contributions made by the employer and the worker, and that, in the eyes of the tax authorities, they will be reduced. ♪ That we're not ♪ [Fresh—The President-in-Office] After all, the Finnish Centre for Pensions has published forecasts that, in the case of the next 20 years, it is also good to see that such a level of funds of between EUR 50 and EUR 60 billion would have been sufficient in the pension system. What is the reason for increasing employers' and employees' contributions at the same time as this money is being raised in the pension fund? If you think about it, no one in the world uses such 50 - year - long predictions as a basis for social decision - making, and now it seems that we have it at the centre of the debate. In addition, I would say in the Committee on the Future, where I have been a member of the Committee on the Future, that in the next few years and decades there will also be such huge changes in Finland's society and working life, the way in which what is being financed in this country will be much bigger and more complex than these pensions and funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u200	Mr President! It is necessary to remind Mr Merta that the Parliamentary Information Service has also calculated the division of the government's entrepreneurship reduction between the different income categories. That EUR 130 million boost was a really big gap in the state treasury, of which 50 percent, or 65 million, is directed solely to the richest income category of entrepreneurs. So the 75,000 richest entrepreneurs, including pharmacists, lawyers and doctors, benefit from this, and nearly 300,000 more low-income entrepreneurs, including barbers, cosmetologists, masseurs, taximen, carpenters and so on, had to settle for crumbs. So the government evidently felt that those pharmacists were the most distressed in society when they had to be helped by an average of 5,700 euros. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u203	Mr President! Prediction over several decades is difficult, but it would be irresponsible not to do so with the information that we now have at our disposal. Nor is it responsible to assume that in the coming decades everything will go according to the most fortunate, most optimistic options. Yes, we know that many predictions have also proved too hopeful. For example, climate change may have consequences that will revolutionise much more than the pension system. When updating the size of pension funds, one must remember that they must be sufficient to pay the pension until the end of life. It is no proof that they are somehow overcompensated, that the baby boomers have recently left and are retiring. For several decades, the money must be sufficient to pay pensions for those age groups, my own, more or less. In order to reduce poverty among pensioners, it is essential to increase national pension, guarantee pension, housing allowance for pensioners. And it is essential for both the poorest and the most prosperous pensioners that social services play: health services and then various housing and support services, as our ability to function deteriorates.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u204	Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank Dr S scream, who has really initiated this initiative, and all the more than 80,000 who have signed it, up to Mr Gustafsson. It is great that this has been brought here when much is being said about this and the markets are always discussing it and the elections are always coming. This is the Socialist line: When the Social Democrats have such a wonderful past in building a Finnish society, I would now expect a clear line from the Social Democrats on this issue. In my opinion, your decision to hold a party meeting remained in the air, specifically in relation to this folded index, which is the position that can be read about that decision of the assembly. In this debate, Mr Gustafsson and Mr Taavitsainen, among others, have very strongly defended this initiative, supported it, and it is a good, great thing. Mr Räsänen was opposed, and I think Mr Haatainen was also opposed, just as clearly. Mr Rinne, who is the chairman of the party, has said on many occasions that this is a completely irresponsible initiative, or at least that it must be rejected absolutely. And the Middle-Finnish representative, Ihalainen, who is a pretty good expert in these matters, also in these matters, strongly opposes this initiative. Well, the majority of demars have been absent from this sitting, but we are very few here anyway, so that we do not know the position of the majority. But I particularly expect and I am sure that the Finnish pensioners expect a response from the Social Democrats in relation to the situation of the smallest pensioners, the disadvantaged, and then, on the one hand, to the position of these earnings-related pensioners and, on the other hand, to whether you are really prepared to give a huge increase in hand to the most high-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u205	Mr President! A few things for Congressman Hassi. First of all, when the folded index was imported, it was then imported as a temporary solution. That is how I understand that at that point no one was talking about the need to introduce such a folded index and keep it for the rest of life in order to pay for pensions for future generations. There must have been some logic in it then. Secondly, how much money is needed for pension funds? As has been said, there are calculations that for the next few decades a fraction, a few ten billion euros, would suffice. In any case, we now have a closer EUR 200 billion. In general, when some decisions are made in this house, a mandate can also be put in place to review the decision at certain intervals, and I would also think that, in this case, when changes are made to pension systems, no matter what they are, even if they are now the index issue, does it not, of course, continue to assess the situation in society, what is the payment capacity, where the funds go and so on. Surely there is no other decision to be taken in this Chamber to smite the decision and it has been cut down like a rock for the next 100 years, but these decisions will be evaluated and, if necessary, repairs made later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u206	Mr President! I do not know, I think it is mainly a coincidence that the Social Democrats' party meeting was last weekend and this citizens' initiative is now as it is this week. This came to my mind now that it has been quite well-deserved that this demarcation decision has been brought to the fore. I was also a party representative myself, and I followed this matter very closely, among other things. Yes, the 500-person group committed itself to this programme of measures to reduce pensioner poverty and then take into account the position of older women and those receiving small occupational pensions. Then these people will receive a small pension: in fact, I do not have a very clear idea of where the small pension will be put, that it is EUR 1200, which is the gross poverty line. In my opinion, it is closer to the EUR 1500, which then has a very large amount. That will then be assessed in our working group, and I am sure the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will also consider this point of view. But as I said in my main speech, this link to small occupational pensions links it to this employment pension index. I said: "The pension provision of those receiving a small pension cannot be corrected without interfering with the index check." Here we now have a number of options, including the representative. The sea has pointed out that whether it will then find this kind of solidarityier and fairer index and system, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-09-ps-4.u208	Mr President! You often hear the claim that the so-called folded index has been promised temporary. However, it remains unclear to me who made such a promise, except perhaps a group of politicians in the electoral fields. But it would be interesting to know whether, for example, the then government would have said that this was meant to be temporary. At least I don't know anything about this. But just as well the younger age groups could then talk about the age of retirement when a recent reform has been carried out, which means that the younger age groups will retire several years older than we are now in our 60s. But I repeat that everything that has been said in this debate about improving the position of the poorest pensioners is to be welcomed.
