ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. And now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u2	First question, Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u3	Madam President! It is only a short time since we were all stopped by the shocking events in Turku. This absurd act of violence has affected the sense of security experienced by many. It is therefore important that, yesterday, all the party chairmen, in their jointly signed statement, condemned all forms of terrorism and all forms of violence and hate speech. That is something we can all agree with in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u6	Mr President! Finland is still the safest and most stable country in the world. We have no more important task here in the whole Chamber than that Finland also remains the safest and most stable country in the world. What we have done in the government is that the focus has also been shifted to security on the resource side: 110 million in total to next year's budget, both external and internal security. But with regard to what was discussed yesterday with the party chairmen — and I thank all the chairmen for that — I believe that we must now also work together to ensure that the atmosphere of debate in society remains such that it does not contribute to the feeding of hate speech and violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u7	And now I would ask those of you who wish to ask supplementary questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u8	Mr President! Thank you for your answer. However, this worrying situation for the citizens now requires responsible solutions. It is now important that we find ways of preventing terrorist attacks and restoring citizens' sense of security, but at the same time we must avoid excesses. We are back again in this 100-year-old Finland’s prestigious Parliament House. Under all circumstances, we must adhere to the rule of law, respect for human rights and democracy. Finland must be an open society. Prime Minister, there is a need for proper and peaceful preparation. The government has proposed criminalising the assistance of undocumented immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u12	Mr President! Let us be extremely careful now about how we talk about this matter among ourselves, that we do not add to the misunderstanding either. This government will not do anything contrary to human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We should all work here now to strengthen our faith in the rule of law, to believe in the functioning of the authorities and to believe that we, as legislators, are enacting legislation that gives the judiciary such a basis for making decisions. Nor are we going here to criticise judicial decisions. We must be confident that our judicial system will take the right decisions independently, based on the legislation that we are doing here. This case in Turku has shown that our authorities are working extremely effectively and well. I think we should all give every support to a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u13	Mr President! These attacks in Turku really stopped all Finns. We are now in a situation that no one wanted, but there has been a first terrorist attack in Finland. Now the way we as a Finnish society react to this tells a lot about us. We must react strongly, decisively and responsibly. We have to go through all the procedures of the authorities, go through the resources and, if necessary, the operating rights, and, as Mr Haatainen said, it must be based on moderate and proper preparation, Western values and respect for the rule of law. Overstatements must be avoided, both in the government and in the opposition. Mr President! Prime Minister, this joint statement by the party chairmen, that it is clearly said that we trust the rule of law, that we trust the authorities, and that we condemn all forms of violence and hate speech and that the innocent are not guilty, is an excellent start. In Sweden, following the terrorist attack, a government and opposition were formed
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u14	Mr President! This meeting of party leaders yesterday was certainly a hopeful one. The debate was proper, we respected each other in this debate, and I think it gives a good basis to continue the debate on that basis. We all gave strong support to the rule of law, respect for human rights, respect for each other and respect for the fact that our good authorities at all levels are working really well. We all respect that. What should we do as legislators? Of course, we must constantly assess whether our processes are flawed, whether our resources are lacking. In this joint statement we also pointed out that we are committed together to continuous improvement in relation to these important processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u15	Mr President! I would now like to ask the Prime Minister what has been done about these recent measures. When we talk about the Turun case, you have now told us that we have to trust the authorities. That is what we must trust, but we have also read that, in the case of Turku, the authorities had information that something might happen. It had already become known to the police and had been contacted, but nothing happened. Well, what has happened in this country now? We are now about to convert infants and mothers. Is this the answer to how terrorism is handled in this country? I would like the right answers now for what is to be done. It's not enough to plan. What is concrete, I would ask you for a clear answer. What's going on in this country? How do we restore the climate in this country that no one has to be afraid of, no matter what time the time of day is on the rails?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u16	Madam President! This is a very important issue that we are discussing here. Safety is one of the basic needs of people, and we must ensure that this country remains safe as well. Now I would like to draw attention to the questioner's question. When we talk about terrorism and we talk about asylum, we should not regard it as synonyms. We must deal with both of these as separate matters. Unfortunately, what happened in Turku was that these two things were united, and that is why we have now had to deal with them, but I ask you to be patient about what is involved in these matters. The fight against terrorism has been a common will of the Ministry of the Interior and of the government as a whole, and it has been done for many, many years. Much has already been done by previous governments. What has been done now in the spring? When information came about the attacks in other countries, including in Stockholm, the protection police raised the threat level, we made reforms, changes and started to see if we still had anything. We have made a special contribution to the rescue of the police, the Border Guard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u17	Mr President! The Finns condemn terrorist hate speech against Finns and Western values. The threat of radical Islamist terrorism in Finland has increased and, at the same time, internal security has deteriorated. The ongoing Islamisation phenomenon is progressing all the time. Since Islam's standards are different from those of Western society, large-scale Muslim immigration leads to the separation of Muslims from host society and the accumulation of Muslim populations in their territories where Islamic values prevail. European leaders and politicians are simply watching the whole territory of European cities be transformed into foreign zones. Hungary is acting differently — the Hungarian people must be proud of their leaders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u20	Madam President! Yes, we defend Finns, but we defend Finland as an open society and also freedom of religion. We are also trying and trying to prevent these crimes from always being caught. But we cannot assume that a representative of a religion is, in principle, evil, but we must assume that he is a man, and if he is in distress, he will be helped, but if he commits a crime, it will be punished.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u21	Madam President! I find it inconceivable that terrorism and asylum seekers can in some way be put at least how to put it, in some way in parallel and perhaps even in between the lines, that there should be a phenomenon in which Islam and Western society are at war. No, this is not true. We are talking about a terrorist-against-peaceful people situation. An arrangement such as that of us should not be created. I would remind you that there were many people from immigrant backgrounds in Turku who were opposed to this terrible act, and that is something that needs attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u22	Madam President! Representative Huhtasaari, we were in the same meeting, and we then condemned all anger, all manner of hate speech. It's kind of like one side. We condemn all kinds of hate speech, and we must ensure that our authorities continue to have sufficient resources and the legal basis to carry out their duties. When we talk about immigration, we must help those fleeing the war. I think everyone in this Chamber has the same idea. We came to Finland in 2015 with a record number of asylum seekers, and we have never at any time been naive about the fact that there are not some in Finland whose radicalisation may have already begun in Finland. That is why the protection police are also prepared for this and their resources have been increased. But these two things must under no circumstances be confused.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u23	Mr President! It is wonderful that the Prime Minister took up this presentation I made at the President of the Republic in Mäntyniemi and was able to discuss internal security and hear the police's assessment of the situation in order to create a common picture of the situation. Prime Minister! It is important that hate speech is curbed in Finnish society. This situation in which we are living is an exceptional situation and a situation that calls for a sensible approach to the phenomena occurring in the world around us. Hate always gives rise to hatred, and it leads to acts of violence. It is wonderful that Mr Haatainen raised this question now in this Question Time, and I would like to ask you, Prime Minister: do you see the importance of continuing this debate on internal security, as we said in that Summer Beach, and continuing it so that it is a regular exchange of views, a debate on the situation picture and then conclusions? I think it is valuable that foreign and security policy should:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u24	Madam President! Thank you, Mrs Rinte, and thank you all for your contribution to this unique opportunity. It is not very common in the world that the chairmen of all parties meet at the same table and talk about difficult issues, where there are also disagreements, especially about practical measures. There we agreed jointly that this is a form that we should continue together. The discussion was good - minded, and surely our information there also increased as we received situation reports from the authorities. For my part, I am committed to the fact that, as long as I am in this post, I will be the host and will regularly invite the chairmen to such a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u25	Mr President! I thank the Prime Minister for this constructive answer. It is very important that such a dialogue is in place and involves all the parliamentary parties, both the government and the opposition parties, and it is good that this is done in a regular manner. I would also like to thank the Minister for the Interior, Mr Risikko, for his reply, which certainly clarified how this matter should be dealt with. This is our common cause, there are no winners and losers here, there are only winners now. The citizens expect us to act responsibly. I would ask the Prime Minister again: now that you meet with the parties next time, would it be possible to create a concrete method of planning for this in line with the Swedish model, to which Mr Lindtman referred in his speech, that there would be such a concrete action plan for such actions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u26	Mr President! As we said at the meeting of the chairmen, this sense of security is a very personal feeling and a matter and everyone experiences it differently, and it is clear that the feeling of security of many Finns has been shaken. It matters how we respond together. As I said, we are committed to continuing the debate together. A programme of measures against terrorism has been prepared for a long time under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, and we talked about the state of its preparation and certain measures in that meeting, and certainly the natural next meeting would be when the Ministry of the Interior has completed that whole programme. We could go through it together then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u27	Madam President! Indeed, we have had such an anti-terrorism programme a long time ago — and it has been going through and combed through now that these events have been taking place — much sooner than this shocking event in Turku. Yes, Finland is prepared, Finland is really prepared for this, because we knew that Finland is not a bird shelter and that it will come at some point. Now, for the first time, we have a suspicion of a terrorist act. It is important that the opposition and the government are united and that we are all 200 Members of Parliament who influence people's opinions. I therefore appeal to you not to promote the polarisation and confrontation that exists in Finland here, and I trust that during this autumn we will show that we will talk about this calmly and think about ways together. Here we have young sixth graders who are taking our lead — let's show it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u28	Let's move on to the next question. Congressman Raatikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u29	Madam Speaker! I should like to ask Minister Risiko about the serious threat and prevention of police action at the reception centre in Jyväskylä last Monday in the event of removal. First, the police were surrounded by protestors and then had to call for numerous additional patrols. The police were professionally able to control the situation, but it took six hours. This is extremely worrying in terms of social peace. When dozens of police officers are tied to one task at a reception center at a time, it is automatically removed from other police assignments. What measures will the Minister take, and will the Minister ensure that the removal process is more effective and that the police resources – which have now been mentioned here and which are the smallest in Europe, if we count the number of police officers in the population – are also sufficient for the proper management of other police tasks if and when situations such as Jyväskylä in reception centres are renewed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u30	Madam President! After all, we currently have about 7,200 police officers, and according to July statistics, only 25 are unemployed. So we have, like, all the cops at work now, and it's a good thing we've been able to keep our police officer at work. And it is quite clear — just as the inquirer knows from his own craftsmanship — that if there is a need for much, then it is out of place. However, it is important to ensure that the level of security and the number of authorities is maintained everywhere. Here, what happened in Jyväskylä, an unfortunate situation occurred that there was a move against police action, and the starting point is that there should be no opposition from the authorities. If there is criticism against immigration policy, that is not the way to prevent the authorities from acting. They're doing their job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u31	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u32	Madam President! I would like to ask Minister Risiko: it is estimated that there are currently some 18,800 asylum seekers in our country who have received a negative asylum decision. According to some estimates, there may be thousands of so-called undocumented people in our country who may not know where they are. It is clear that people who are illegally present, often unknown, pose a security threat to Finland. The fact that they are allowed to move freely among the citizens gives Finns fear and concern for the safety of both themselves and their loved ones — now I am talking about proper security, not some sense of security, which is an unusual term. Since the events in Turku, citizens' faith in safe Finland has been shaken significantly. Is the government going to take concrete measures to respond to people's fears and concerns, for example, by transferring those who have taken a negative decision to closed return centres to wait for a return as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u33	Madam President! We currently have just over 15,000 people in reception centres. Of them, about 11,000 are those who have received a negative decision, 2,700 are those who are waiting for the first decision, and 1,400 are those who are waiting for that integration. You have specifically mentioned those who have taken a negative decision. About 10,000 of them have complained about this, and it is quite clear that we will certainly have more people who have been given a valid negative decision. This is what the Ministry of the Interior has been prepared to do, because it is just beginning to show. Up until now, I've only been quiet about those decisions, now we're starting to see this, and we're prepared for this. We have 1,400 such persons who are waiting on the return line for the police return, and the big reason for that is not police action, but, above all, that there are no travel documents from their own country. You asked me about this detention. The threshold for detention is very high, but the starting point is that for all those who receive a final negative decision, and now for others who have received a negative decision in the coming days, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u34	Mr President! This reply from the Minister did not quite explain what the government is going to do about this. This is an extremely worrying phenomenon. In Finland, it cannot be that the authority is forced to evade the path of rioters. What is the government going to do about this in practice? Is there going to be an increase in the range of means available to the police? Will the police acquire new instruments of force, new powers of force? Is there a need for new legislation to prevent, for example, the prevention of return flights, i.e. that people can be boarded, aircraft in the air? After all, there is constant news that we are actually advising on how to prevent return flights. How are we going to react to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u35	Madam President! Recently, the police have come up with a wish — not later than this spring, when it has been seen that this number will increase — that legislation will be passed through, how can one be sanctioned in such a way as to prevent such a thing from happening? And now I'm not talking about helping. Everyone understands that helping a neighbor is allowed, and helping a person in need is a neighbor’s work, but it is a question of stopping a policeman from doing his job and preventing a return. We are now assessing whether it should be sanctioned more closely. Then, what else must be done: we must have these permanent resources and powers of action and we must have equipment. Now the government has decided to increase the fleet, increase the resources, and also increase the powers of action by means of legislation. These are the ways in which we fight against the creation of a group of people in this society who are illegally present in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u36	Madam Speaker! It is very important that the police and other authorities also receive full support from us politicians to carry out their duties. ♪ When you're right there ♪ In the case of Jyväskylä, it turned out that these were the people of the Hazara tribe, and at the same time I ask what kind of perception you, Minister, have as to whether the geography is up-to-date as to the circumstances and the persecution situation of that tribe in Afghanistan. In fact, in recent times, there have also been absolutely unmistakable killings, which have been directed specifically at women and children, civilians in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u37	Madam President! That is where we at the Finnish Immigration Service have a country data unit that is constantly going through these, and in this they use many different sources, data produced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also international sources of information, all the time. Of course, I cannot take a stand on an individual case, but according to what I have read in the media, there would have already been a legitimate negative decision here, when it has already been tried in quite a number of courts, and every court always makes independent decisions, does not look at what others have done. So to your question, I must be able to count on the data from the geodata unit being up-to-date, and then we must remember that there may be places in the same country where you can go, even if you do not return to the place where the most critical is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u38	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u39	Madam President! We are all happy about the reduction in the number of unemployed people in this Chamber, but unfortunately these figures also focus on major problems. There are already nearly 50,000 unemployed families in Finland who live completely outside unemployment benefit, either on the sole basis of income support or possible housing support, and the most worrying thing is that the number of these incomeless families has doubled in the last five years. On several occasions, the government has assured us that it will reduce inequalities and, Mr Sipilä, you have repeatedly hoped and assured us that this will be done. If these figures, which indicate exactly the opposite, do not tell of inequality, what and what reasons can be behind these figures?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u40	Madam President! It is true that this development of inequality is a long-term development, and that figure for five years is certainly true. Fortunately, during this term of government, the number of long-term unemployed has fallen, and that means that this problem will gradually be corrected, but not as quickly as it would of course wish. The government has taken a huge number of measures to increase the employment rate, reduce unemployment, and these measures are visible. The number of unemployed job seekers decreased by 49,400 during July to July, and there are also positive developments in long-term unemployment. We will continue our efforts to speed up this development, and then there will be relief for the lives and everyday lives of families in which both are unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u41	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u42	Mr President! Contrary to what the Prime Minister has said here, the trend of inequality is not a long-term trend in the same direction, but this trend has looked very different in the different governments. For example, during the previous government term, despite the fact that the government decided on major adjustment measures, Finnish income differentials narrowed due to the fact that the government made a significant improvement in basic security and was also prepared to increase taxation on high incomes. According to recent figures during this term of government, this trend has changed. Now the differences in Finnish income as a result of government decisions have started to grow due to the fact that the government's savings decisions have been directed directly at low incomes and the Finns' high incomes have benefited from the government's large tax reductions. Prime Minister, if you are really concerned about the development of inequality, at what point will the government take decisions that will reverse this worrying trend that has begun during this government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u43	Madam President! This review must take place in a broader perspective than just one budget perspective, and this perspective must take into account, for example, the reduction in long-term unemployment which will also affect these issues. It is clear that the government has made painful cuts for 4 billion dollars in public finances as a whole, we do not deny that, it has been needed to achieve this balance in public finances. But these measures, which have been taken since the beginning of the process of reducing inequalities: we have increased the guarantee pension, a single parent increase in child allowances, but the biggest action this government has taken is, of course, that, through this reduction in long-term unemployment, this most serious element of inequality has gone down. But I admit that it is still far too high.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u44	Madam President! It is true that the government has made a lot of decisions regarding unemployment benefit. The conditions for unemployment benefit have been tightened, the duration reduced, and, unfortunately, these are the measures which will contribute to this inequality. The State Economic Research Centre (VATT) considers these methods to be pure trick job creation, and even worse, experts at the National Institute for Health and Welfare consider this to be the main cause of the increase in the number of incomeless families. That's what's worrying. These means are putting people outside unemployment benefit and, as we all know, all those who try to take on small jobs will lose an equivalent amount in income support. For them, this trap is the worst. With nearly 50,000 Finnish households already trapped in this trap, what incentives and support measures have the government planned for these very things, Prime Minister Sipilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u45	Mr President! Firstly, it is true that poverty and inequality are present in Finnish society for a long time, and why the situation has worsened is that we have been in a very bad economic situation for seven to eight years in the midst of high unemployment. Now this unemployment has been brought down, employment has risen, and it is the best and most sustainable medicine: raising people from unemployment, from poverty to work. Contrary to the testimony of the representative, the government has taken a number of actions. These measures, which you listed, will also increase the supply of work, and when we have jobs at the moment, where to go, I think that is the right policy. Employment ahead — that is how we will strengthen our economy and be able to help those people who are in the most vulnerable position. These measures have also been taken, for example, in the case of families with children: a reduction in early childhood education fees of EUR 70 million, 6700 families in full, a single parent increase in child benefit and so on. Yes, we have done a lot and we are doing it all the time, but the stronger the state finances, the more we can do to help the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u47	Mr President! The previous government leveled inequality, the present government has increased inequality. As we have read about today's Helsingin Sanomat, the figures of Parliament's Information Service indicate that the four lowest income categories have lost during this term of government, and you have just forgotten to say, in addition to these adjustments, the tax reductions of 1.5 billion, which have benefited the most from the high income Finns. The great contradiction then lies in the fact that, under the leadership of Professor Juho Saare, this government has set up a working group to stop inequality, when it is quite clear that the only way to stop inequality is to change government policy. Then I ask you, Minister Orpo: are you going to change the policy of the government so that the broad programme of this working group on inequality is likely to work out, or will it be up to the next government to correct the fatal mistakes made by the previous government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u48	Mr President! If this compares the government’s achievements in managing the country’s economy and in managing employment and safeguarding well - being, then the book of this government is quite different. I really do not want us to change the line of economic and employment policy that has supported the strong economic growth that we currently have. As far as the good and worthy article of today's Helsingin Sanomat is concerned, I do not think that it takes account of the improved employment situation, the fact that, through employment, more and more people will rise from a weak economic position to a better economic situation, and this is the most sustainable way. And as far as tax policy is concerned, the focus is on work, encouraging the acceptance of work, but we have, during the government's term of office, focused on low and medium-income earners, among other things, with a reduction in earnings of half a billion. But we will see to it that no one's taxation is increased. It also encourages learning, self-development, additional work,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u49	Mr President! Inclusion is a big problem in society. Man participates in society through work. During the last parliamentary term to which Mr Andersson referred, 100,000 people became involved in this process. It was a bad development. Now we have three main issues: employment, employment, employment — to increase it. Now, thanks to the efforts of the government, we are well on the way. We should therefore talk about inclusive economic growth. Involve people through their own efforts and promote tax policy, social security policy. The government is now also reforming the social security system, preparing in the long term. You also made a decision to reform taxation in the long term. Is this precisely the objective of improving participation and employment? How do you comment on these important long-term plans?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u50	Mr President! It is true that we too had a little backpack after the previous government, 100,000 more unemployed. That is why we have this increase in employment, jobs for the unemployed. This is our top priority, and it sets a sustainable basis for public finances. For a long time, we owed some EUR 1 million an hour in public finances. We're already somewhere around 400,000. That too is still too much when we talk about debt within an hour, but now we are in the process of achieving the career of balancing public finances and ending living in debt. By doing so, we will also lay the foundations for being able to take better care of every Finn. Nor would I underestimate what is being done in this working group led by Juho Saare. There we are looking for new approaches to halting and curbing inequalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u51	Mr President! One group of people who have now been hit particularly hard by your unequal policies is pensioners. Small pensions have been cut, medical and travel allowances have been reduced and service charges have been increased. The calculation of the information service ordered by the Left Alliance — to which Mr Harakka has already referred here — shows that your decisions will have increased and will increase the poverty rate for people over the age of 65 again next year. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that Finland must ensure that all pensioners have sufficient income and human living conditions. This objective is also at the heart of our own pension policy programme. There has also been a great deal of talk in this Chamber today about employment, jobs, increasing the employment rate. But what about those whose careers are already behind us? How do you guarantee pensioners a livelihood and that the income gap between pensioners does not increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u52	Mr President! It is quite true that, under the broad concept of inequality, it is inevitable to look at the issue of the different population groups. In the case of pensioners, it is a question of transfers of income and the level of pensions, but also of services. As far as the most vulnerable pensioners are concerned, for those who have received a guarantee pension, we were now able to get an increase of EUR 15 per month as a result of this budget line. We are not saying that it is a huge amount, but we are saying that it is a step in the right direction. As far as this debate, which relates to inequalities in society, I can see that we are approaching it strongly only from the point of view of transfers. That Juho Saare team on inequality is approaching our society and its integrity and inclusion in a much wider way. It wonders about loneliness, which is also a big issue for many elderly Finns, and, for example, integration issues in an immigrant group and a broader understanding of how we could support our continued belonging to the same boat in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u53	Madam President! No one can deny that much more jobs have been created during this government and that much progress has been made. So the direction is positive. Nor can anyone deny that there are many people between work and social security, unemployment benefit and income support. One of the ways in which the government is now setting itself up is the national income register, which would then bring together social security, unemployment and employment, and could allow less time to work, perhaps, into working life. This would be a truly radical reform that is worth doing now, and it is apparently coming in early 2019. So I ask the government ministers: at what point is this national income register, and in what way do you think it could now help people get back to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u54	Mr President! It is very good that this national income register should be brought up. Indeed, it is much bigger than you might think, because it will enable up-to-date information and the availability of information to combine information from the authorities and information from the wage-payers so that we can develop our social security, unemployment security, in a direction that is more conducive to our social security system as a whole. It is a very important tool when we are hopefully embarking on a larger reform of social security in the next parliamentary term. It's the ship we can build on. That work is ongoing, but the Ministry estimates that the target schedule, i.e. from the beginning of 2019, will continue to be maintained and maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u55	Irade the Talman! Ledamot Ala-Nissilä tog upp det att sysselsättningsgraden stiger, och det är en bra sak, om den ens stiger långsamt. Tyvärr stiger den också ojämlikt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u56	Mr President! We have been very pleased in the government that the discussion on child and family policy, together with the themes of working life and gender equality, have been on the agenda of practically all parliamentary parties. The social partners and child and family organisations have also presented their own good and well-founded options on how to move this reform forward. As the questioner said, in the budget debate, we made a joint decision that the preparation of the reform should begin immediately, with the aim of entering into force during this parliamentary term. You asked about the preconditions for the reform. I consider it justified that the child should be the starting point and his rights at a time with both parents. This is also the starting point, which guarantees that we will achieve this goal from the point of view of equality in working life. On the other hand, in the light of the current statistics, which show how family subsidies are now being used, we agreed that it is justified to guarantee the possibility of caring for the child at home until the age of three. What's inside that block of support?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u57	Mr President! There are many families with children, young people, unemployed people, elderly people and people in various family care situations in my own neighbourhood and acquaintances. We blues are especially concerned with the low-income and middle-income people. As has been heard, the government has done many tax cuts and improvements in social security during the budgetary negotiations. However, not everyone is yet enjoying the fruits of our economic growth. There is still a lot of poverty and lack of participation. Supporting these people towards a better future is a priority for us blues. I would like to ask Minister Saarikko: what action has the government taken, especially for families with children, single parents, elderly people? And, of course, we are interested in what is coming for family carers in the form of a leading project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u58	Mr President! As has already been said several times here today, in the early years of this government, it has inevitably been necessary to focus on balancing the economy and thus improving employment, guaranteeing Finnish jobs. However, in last week's budget debate, we had the opportunity to take decisions that could be said to be in the right direction as regards the fight against inequality and the status of families with children, when we look at these transfers to which we invested. In the case of carers, an improvement has already been made earlier this season in terms of their opportunities for e.g. holidays or training. The same reform concerned family care for the elderly. In this last week's decision, in particular for families with children, the most important decisions can be the increase in the maintenance allowance, the single parent increase in the child allowance and the raising of the minimum daily allowance for both the sick and those with the lowest parental allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u59	Madam Speaker! The Minister of Finance, Orpo, said that no one will rise in taxation next year. That's not true. In the case of families with low and middle incomes, taxation will increase, as the tax on children will be abolished. The government didn't want to go on with it. Here Minister Saarikko said that there is now an increase of EUR 5 in child benefit. Well, it means, for example, EUR 240 per year for a family of four children, while at the same time this removal of the child allowance will cost the single parent family EUR 400 per year — a loss of EUR 160. Is this what the government calls support for small and middle-income families with children? It is very unfortunate that the government has emphasised that this budget is child-friendly when it is not. I would have asked the government now why there was no government support for families with children, especially for families with children with low and middle incomes. Are you going to do it again?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u61	Mr President! This is an important question because we have noticed that this has caused confusion. It is good to say, first of all, that this child allowance, which came into the budget after 2014, is from the time when your party also sat on the board. It was a patching-up for the then cut-off of child supplements, something that this government as such and with the euro, the sums, has not done. In the same context, the Parliamentary Committee on Finance considered that child reduction to be technically and administratively difficult to support families with children. In fact, then, together, the then government agreed that this introduction of a child allowance into taxation is a temporary act. We have also estimated that a much better and more effective fight against poverty would be to invest in basic security rather than in technical tax reductions, given that those tax reductions did not provide the best support for the lowest incomes, unlike the increase in the minimum daily allowance to the budget now or the increase in the child allowance for single parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u62	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u63	Värderade fru talman! Säkerhetsfrågorna kommer att vara mycket på agendaan ox i riksdage den rausten. Svenska riksdagsgrupen effectlyser en ny spaningslag. Vi vill att den ska göras med en ordentlig lagberedning. Men vi efferlyser också en bredare discussion om tryggheten, och vi började just med den. Vi ser alltså att vi i Finland har en fråga som vi brode lyfta upp på nationalell nivå, och den handlar om den mentala älsan. Svenska riksdagsgruppen skulle cereals att vi i Finland skulle göra ett ordentligt program för att tag i problemmen med mental älsa. Det handlar också om vår säkerhet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u64	Mr President! I appreciate that you raise this serious national issue, which relates to the mental well-being of our nation, every Finn. We recognise mental health as a major problem and also a growing cause when we look at, for example, early retirement from work. It's a growing group. I am very pleased that a reform of the mental health law has been agreed in connection with the Government Programme. That work is currently under way in the Ministry. This connection is linked to the formation of a substance abuse care law and also a new law on self-determination, which was started during the last parliamentary term, and which goes well into the difficult cores of talking about the right of a person to decide his own affairs in the difficult situations of health care. In connection with the Mental Health Act, I have discussed with Minister Risiko the value of the fact that we are already consulting the security authorities, in practice the police, as a result of the problems in the lives of these people, on the possible security risks to come. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that these are extreme cases. The biggest dimension is mental health prevention issues that we can all face.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u66	Mr Henrikson, would you like to ask a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u67	Mr President! Thank you for that answer. However, I would like to know, now that the government is continuing to prepare for the reform of the social economy, how you are now going to take these matters on board there. In what way do you intend to raise mental health issues so that every province, every municipality also makes use of this situation and see what can be done together, because this certainly requires all the actors involved and also funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u68	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health services, the structure in which the provinces responsible for these services in Finland in the future — it is the structure, they are the framework in which professionals operate with the same professional skills over these issues as they have hitherto been at municipal level. What we can do better in these new structures is, of course, closer knowledge, better information exchange through information systems and also, as it were, the pooling of knowledge in larger units, especially in the area of mental health. Consider, for example, the psychiatric problems of children: there are many difficult themes that require special knowledge. I therefore see this reform as a particular strength in the management of these issues. You raised concerns about the mental health programme that the government is taking forward as a reform of the mental health law. I would like to emphasise that it is a substantive law which will then be implemented by the new framework. It should be noted that we are still facing a number of substantive reforms in the social and health services during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u69	We have one more question to ask. Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u70	Madam President! As we have seen here, during Question Time, the Finnish economy is in strong growth, and one of the key components is the use of forests. At present, the European Union is taking a decision on the EU legislation on land use and forestry, this famous LULUCF, in which Finns are being punished for the growth of Finnish forests, which is quite wrong. In this piece of legislation, which is difficult for Finnish politics, the Greens have been credited with the fact that they have been constantly feeding false information. Meppi Heidi Hautala, for example, is the best in this area, and I am sorry to note that among other things the Meppi Sirpa of the Coalition Party Pietikäinen has participated in this work. Now we have the last moments to influence this issue so that we can get the right information about the EU and change this regulation so that the Finnish forests can be used as before. My question to the Prime Minister is: this is starting to be the end of this piece of legislation in the EU, so what will the government do? The line has been clear, but what are these last-minute follow-up measures to correct this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u71	Madam President! It is clear that the government's line on this issue has been clear all along. We feel that what has been on the table is unfair for Finland. Sweden, for example, will be able to continue harvesting around 80% of the annual growth rate when Finland would suffer from a slight increase in the current 65. I can assure you that the government has done everything it can. The Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, has had about 50 different meetings with his colleagues on these issues. We have also worked very closely with the Estonian Presidency to come up with new compromise proposals. I myself have discussed this with Merkel and Löfven, for example, and with many colleagues, that we should be able to support this view of Finland, which is well-founded. I hope that in that European Parliament, too, all Finns will then stand up for this sustainable line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u72	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u73	Mr President! The women's network in Parliament did a historic job in collecting the signature of 150 MPs for this bill. The signatures came from all the groups, and I am proud of the efficient operation of the network as President of this year. The bill proposes that the meeting fee for municipal trust should not in future reduce the parental allowance. At present, meeting fees reduce parental benefit from the day of the meeting. Thank you, therefore, to all the signatories and, in particular, to all the representatives who have collected signatures and other active representatives. A special thank you to Mr Sirén, whose previous legislative initiative has now led to this joint initiative of the women's network. But why did the women’s network take this initiative? Because it is important to ensure that people in different life situations can participate in decision-making on an equal footing. Parental leave must not be an obstacle to political participation. In the opinion of the Women's Network, parents of young children should be better encouraged to carry out municipal positions of trust and not to create incentives traps for them. This applies to all parents of young children who are on parental leave, but especially to women, who use the majority of parental leave. Of course, I hope that the use of parental leave will become evener and that fathers will use it more with the reform of parental leave in the future. Mr President! In accordance with the legislation in force, the amount of daily allowance is reduced to a minimum if the mother or father of the child is simultaneously employed during the daily allowance period. In the case of paid employment, it is justified that the amount of parental allowance is reduced by the earned work received, as the need for social support is reduced. However, there have recently been cases where a person’s participation in the management of a municipal trust has been interpreted as work in such a way that maternity and parental allowance has been paid only to a minimum for the meeting days of the trust operations. In their decision-making practice, the appeal bodies in matters of income security, the Social Security Appeal Board and the right to insurance have considered that the management of municipal trust is comparable to gainful employment in the application of the Health Insurance Act in accordance with the legislation in force. The exercise of municipal positions of trust is a legal right and also an obligation, and there is no real justification for its comparison with gainful employment. According to the Health Insurance Act, employment refers to actual gainful employment, i.e. employment in employment, employment or as an entrepreneur, which constitutes the person’s livelihood. Local representatives are not in employment or service relationship with the municipality, nor does the trust commission generate a right to leave or a pension. Nevertheless, in line with the above, trust commissions have been interpreted as work to reduce parental benefits. Mr President! Participation in municipal policy is not comparable to gainful employment. There are occasional meetings and usually in the evening. Being at home with small children is not necessarily an obstacle to the exercise of a trust, and it should be possible for parents themselves to assess whether they want to carry out positions of trust while on parental leave. The purpose of meeting fees for municipal trust activities is to replace the time spent on the task and thus enable participation for everyone. It is wrong for a person on parental leave to suffer financial losses as a result of the exercise of a trust. The law must therefore be amended, as current practice sends a message to the parents of young children that political participation is not desirable or possible. Mr President! The initiative proposes that the amount of parental allowances under the Health Insurance Act should in future be excluded from the remuneration for municipal and future regional trust measures. For the sake of clarity, it may be justified to limit this derogation by taking into account only the fees payable under the municipal law, not, for example, those paid by public limited companies owned by municipalities. In addition, it would be justified to define that this applies only to part-time municipal trust activities and not, for example, to the management of a monthly remuneration-based mayor or an equivalent full-time or half-day municipal trust. When the regional reform comes into force, regional positions of trust should be treated in the same way as municipal positions of trust. A more precise definition and reflection of these different limits should be considered during the committee's deliberations. Mr President! I hope that the bill to amend Chapter 11, Section 8, of the Health Insurance Act will receive a thorough examination in committee and will be corrected. Thank you to the women's network in Parliament and to all those who have been active in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u74	Mr President! This is a bill to be welcomed, even if it is necessary to note that there are indeed many signatories across party boundaries. The bill has been carefully prepared and specific cases, such as these full-time confidence measures, have been taken into account. From a democratic point of view, it is a priority that residents in all life situations have the opportunity to participate in municipal influence. Each person is an expert in his own everyday life and brings to the decision-making process a view that others may not have. Possibilities also mean economic opportunities. In addition to the meeting fee, a working or self-employed person also receives a loss of income from his/her income, and now, on the contrary, a person with parental benefits could lose his/her income as a result of the fees, as if the work at home was not appreciated. The situation is extraordinary, and this cannot be fair. I hope that we in this Parliament will soon be able to put this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u75	Mr President! Equality is one of the biggest prides of 100-year-old Finland: women's right to vote, the maternity clinic system, equal marriage law. All these achievements are worth celebrating. But we're not done yet. People continue to be unequal in many respects on the basis of gender. One of the problems of equality is reflected every day in the everyday lives of our politicians: it is the under-representation of women as political decision-makers. In the last municipal elections, we made the history of equality. The record number of women was elected to municipal and city councils. After the election, history was re-elected when a record number of women were elected as presidents of municipal councils and municipal boards. However, only 39 per cent of all delegates are female councillors. The number of women chairing municipal councils is similar. Only 31 per cent of the municipalities elected a woman as chairman of the municipal board for the highest position in municipal policy. Politics is still a manly world. This should no longer be the case in Finland in the 21st century. Mr President! In a representative democracy, the people choose their decision-makers. Yet the least that we decision-makers can do for equality and diversity is to ensure that there are no obstacles to participation in any group of people. That is what this bill is all about. Its purpose is to amend the Health Insurance Act so that the amount of parental allowance is no longer reduced by the remuneration for municipal trust actions. At present, the TE Centres interpret the often very low remuneration paid for trust actions as equivalent to remuneration. This has reduced parental allowances for meeting days to a minimum. This practice is unfair, especially for mothers of young children. It undermines their political participation, as mothers continue to use the lion's share of parental leave. According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to participate in politics and the public authorities must safeguard and promote this right. The exercise of municipal positions of trust is a right and also an obligation guaranteed by the law. It must be possible for everyone equally. Remuneration for municipal trust tasks is not the same as remuneration for gainful employment. Therefore, they should not be treated as the same thing either. The purpose of the duties of trust is to keep the implementation of constitutional law within the reach of all. Mr President! Decisions taken in the municipality affect the everyday lives of all residents. It is therefore very important that the councils and committees have a good representation of all residents. There must also be parents of young children. When the social services are transferred to the provinces, municipalities will be entrusted with the tasks of day care, school, sports and youth services in particular, as well as decisions relating to land use, such as the location of a playground or a light transport route — precisely those issues that particularly affect families with children. That is why it is particularly important that the parents of young children are also among the decision-makers. Mr President! Our 100-year-old Finland is committed by both domestic legislation and international agreements to promoting equality and eliminating all forms of discrimination. By adopting this legislative initiative, we can eliminate one aspect of inequality and ensure that mothers have a more equal opportunity to participate in policy making. This bill on the initiative of Parliament's women's network is exceptional because it has been signed by almost 150 MPs. Representatives of all parliamentary groups are included. That is why I dare to trust that this bill will not be buried in the committee. It's good to see you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u76	Madam President! It is very nice to be in this Chamber today to take forward a legislative initiative to which almost 150 signatures have been received. Even though there are times in this Chamber, as in that Question Time, when feelings get hotter and things go away, we also have a lot of things that we agree with and want to take forward together, and that is great and gives us the confidence that this Parliament will be able to change old practices in many ways. This is one of them, and it must indeed be achieved as soon as possible, because it is neither good nor right that the parents of small children who are elected in representative democracy, who are in municipal positions of trust, should be treated unequally when their parental benefits are reduced as they receive trust bonuses. In that sense, however, we must take a hat on Parliament's women's network and on all of us, because this is our joint initiative, and I hope that such joint initiatives will continue to be taken in this Chamber. If any commendation can now also be given to the government today, it is for this family leave reform that is now starting to move. I also hope that this historic reform will be brought to an end in this parliamentary term. It will then genuinely increase the freedom of choice for families. It is from the point of view of the child and from the point of view of the child's right that we really need these acts of equality in our 100-year-old independent Finland — these are individual ones, but they are important and affect the everyday lives, lives and choices of many families of children. More and more we need the parents of young children in those municipal and also national decision-making bodies, because many decisions affect their very lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u77	Madam President! My warmest thanks to the women's network in Parliament and its chairman, Mr Sarkkinen, and to Mr Sirén, who has already been on the move. Over 150, or exactly 150, Members of Parliament are involved in this, and that means that a large number of men are also taking this issue forward. In fact, this proposal concerns both mothers and fathers, and it is just as important that parental leave does not cause such an unfair situation — not for mothers but also for fathers — which has been the case at the moment. Of course, the lion's share of those on parental leave in homes is mothers, and that is why it is good that the government is now also taking action on this issue. It has been decided to mobilise parental leave reform in the preparation process and, above all, to take account of the different families and families' different situations, children at the centre, of course, but to make it possible for us in families to increase the number of fathers to hold parental leave and take responsibility through it. Unfortunately, it is often the case that this choice is not necessarily as voluntary as it may be in the case of opposing speeches, and that is why it is good that this preparation is now being mobilised as part of the measures that are being taken for families with children. I fully agree that we need different people for decision-making. Young mothers and young fathers are important in this work, and it is important that even such happy moments, when family raising comes and young children come into families, would not cut off the important work that is being done in the municipalities and provinces but also at the national level. It is good that this initiative by the women's network has now gained such broad support in Parliament and will certainly be dealt with as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u78	Madam President! How wonderful it is to come to this renewed hall to speak on the first fine initiative taken forward by the women's network. In fact, I am thinking of the fact that the issues raised by the women's network have been of an average historical nature: the right to child home care has been acquired, many other things have been done, and this is in fact far greater than its scale. Today we were talking about inclusion, and it is important that everyone can participate in that participation, democratic engagement. At the moment, there is a situation where those with parental allowance do not really want to take part in democratic decision-making because they lose their income, fall to a minimum in the parenting allowance, that is to say, 23 euros a day — although this too is, fortunately, now being raised by a good government. It is important that no one, at least financially, suffers from doing things in common. I think this is going to have a big impact on the fact that more and more young mothers and fathers can run for office and carry out their ideas and move things that are important to that particular group of people. Of course, parenting is comprehensive, but our society cannot afford to have those who care for their children in the home sided exclusively there with financial penalties. I myself am also thinking about the fact that, in the future, when we undertake these reforms on parenthood and related free and free funding, it would certainly be a good idea for the various forms of employment to be better taken into account, and perhaps the women's network could start working with time to prepare how short-term work and part-time work could be better coordinated so that there would also be an incentive to get away from home a little more than to positions of trust. This head opening was absolutely fantastic, and this is true not only for women, but equally for men, as several representatives have said here. This was an example of what a network of women can accomplish. Good luck and strength for the Chairman and cooperation from now on!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u79	Talman! The women's network has a glorious history, and then perhaps there hasn't been so much good news about the golden days of the '90s. That was when we got subjective day care, there was a restraining order and other things that were really very radical and big investments, and then we got support in society that goes beyond the political sphere as well. That is why it is, of course, a good thing that the women's network has once again achieved a reform which, in reality, will significantly improve the position of women. Although it is true that this is now about fathers and mothers of young children, and this applies equally to everyone in that situation, in reality it has, of course, been targeted more specifically at women, because family leave is being treated unequally today. In the same way as Mr Heinonen, I myself would like to see a real commitment to the future reform of parental leave, so that in reality there is a reform of the working methods and we are evenly sharing that we are not just sharing a little more good for everyone, but are investing in reality. This may mean that we also need to invest in the budget so that, for example, the employment rate of women can be raised in the future. I would particularly like to thank the President-in-Office, Mr Sarkki, and also the previous President, Mr Raassina, for holding this network of women together, although perhaps the winds of equality are not very favourable at the moment. But perhaps this centenary year in Finland will help us all to invest a little more in equality. As we know, although equality is often a question of women's status, in the end, it is for the benefit of all of us, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u80	Mr President! I am very much in favour of this bill, because it has come as a surprise to many shopkeepers that the fee for a trust mission will then decrease the daily allowance. Women continue to spend most of their family leave, and therefore this reduction in daily allowances particularly affects young women and weakens their opportunities and also their motivation to participate in politics and in the exercise of their duties of trust. I have heard more women who were on parental leave within a year — in this case they were all women — who were surprised when they had come to terms with this current practice. They have said that this even seems offensive, since the arrangements for childcare already require so much organization to get there for meetings. Then when you have noticed that even the daily allowance has been cut off, then the motivation to participate will be put to a hard test in such a situation. We should do everything in our power to promote the participation of parents of young children in municipal decision-making, even because the municipalities make so much decision on the very issues of families with children. This initiative is a good one. It's great that this Parliament has such strong support for this. Although this is a joint initiative of the women's network, I would like to thank Mr Sarkki, because I know that he has been very active in this matter. - Thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u81	Mr President! As has been said many times in this Chamber in this debate, it is very problematic that the parent of a small child should be treated unequally when he participates in municipal decision-making and politics, when the parental allowance and maternity allowance have been reduced to a minimum by the day of meetings, as interpreted by this current legislation. This is strange even in the light of the fact that a parent caring for a child has been taking care of his or her children during the day, and therefore, in a way, that work would not be appreciated at all. This current practice is unfair and certainly does not encourage young adults with families to be involved in municipal decision-making. I myself was in such a situation when I was elected chairman of the City Board of Oulu that the parental allowance period was just ending that day. At the time, I guess I was the youngest chairman of the Finnish City Board, and the life situation was such that if there had been no previous political experience — I guess there was a third council term going on — I would not have left in that situation if I had known that at least financial incentives would not have been given to assume responsibility and to build the future. Thank you very much to the women's network for being in this situation: almost 150 signatories. I would also like to thank Mr Sirén for this background, which is in fact now enjoying the second week of the parental allowance period and has done the basic work of this legislative initiative as early as last autumn. It was therefore easy for all of us to go out with these signatures during the summer to do more. Mr President! I would hope that, when the government made a decision last week to reform the family leave system, and when there are almost 150 signatories to the bill, the government will take this now as well, so that it can move forward with this family leave reform system at the latest, unless the committee considers that we can put this bill forward more quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u82	Madam President! The first bill to amend Article 11(8) of the Health Insurance Act, signed by representative Hanna Sarkkinen, is an excellent bill, and I sincerely hope that this excellent bill will succeed and will also be decided in this great hall as a clear government proposal for success. I think this is very good because it supports both equality and Finnish democracy in the centenary of Finland's independence. In this centenary of Finland’s independence, it should be remembered that Finnish democracy, Finnish democracy, is based on local self-government and municipal decision-making, municipal democracy. We all know that the municipal council in Finland is the only institution in force in the current constitution, and nothing separates it. It is the cornerstone of our democracy, it is and remains. That is why it is extremely important that those delegates, those members of the boards who work, even though they are family or mothers, do not get worse than others because of their families, that is to say, now that the reward comes to the account, they will not be punished for it when they receive other benefits. That is why I hope that this bill will be taken extremely seriously in this house and that the committee will deal with this quickly and precisely so that we can get this bill into the form of a law even before Finland reaches the age of 100. It would be a credit to Finnish democracy, and it should also be borne in mind, Madam President, that economic values are very low in this area, but the impact of this initiative on democracy and people's influence is very significant. Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Sarkkinen for her excellent work and for having been able to take this matter forward and for gathering such a great number of signatures for this bill, with the help of colleagues, but a very fine act — I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u83	Mr President! Since the beginning of the parliament, women have made wonderful, fine performances, and have been able to get them through together. They have often affected children, young people and families — for example, the first social innovation, I think that is what can be said about school meals, which was the result of parliamentarians who were gathered from women from different parties long ago. That's great. And now we're here. I am very proud of this initiative, which has up to 150 signatories and which has thus been born with a women's network as a key element. Of course, I too would like to thank Hanna Sarkki and all the wonderful women who are involved in this, and also great men. This women’s network of ours — I can’t tell you now — is of particular interest to the world. I travel a lot, including within the OSCE, in different countries. This women's network is coming up, and if it doesn't, I'm gonna bring it up. I have already argued twice that we could not set up an action group such as the Women's Network in the OSCE, and there has been a great deal of interest in it, and I believe that it is gradually gaining support and that it will also pass. The second thing that is also admired by the world — which we must also tell — is that: Finland is one of the few countries in the world where women's organisations and their activities are financed from the budget. This is not normal at all. So we can be proud of a lot of things, though. And, yes, we must now assume that, despite the lack of time, we must become more active in the activities of the women's network, absolutely,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u86	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the women's network, to its chairman, Mr Sarkkinen, and to Mr Sirén, who has done the groundwork. I would particularly like to thank the women's network for having been to my son and hopefully to my sons' boys' cause. It is great that when Finland turns 100, we can be one man and woman to promote equality, enabling municipal and future regional decision-making. Mr Mäkelä — and I think the name went well — pointed out that at the moment we still have different employment-based compensation elements. We are paid a meeting fee to those who receive a loss of earnings through earnings or enterprise, but we then have one more group in which you do not have to apply for loss of earnings, because in the case of a public employer, you are paid a salary for these days. All in all, we need to pull ourselves together here and bring this loss of earnings to the same level, not to weaken something, but to encourage, to be open-minded that we need decision-makers. Many municipalities are moving towards a committee model that is more and more binding, and I believe that it will also take place in the provincial administration in such a way that there will be special committees. I do not believe that the system can otherwise be built. It is therefore particularly important that we do not have people in the parental allowance period who are discriminated against for making decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u87	Madam President! I am one of the few who have not signed this bill, but I am happy to tell you that the reason why I did not sign it was that when the names were collected, I was on parental leave myself. I would like to highlight the importance of this parental leave strongly in this Chamber. It's a great thing. It makes it possible for a parent, both parents, to be involved in the life of a small child, and that is something that we must hold onto with claws and teeth and, above all, encourage fathers to take more parental leave. That is what I want, and I hope that we will all make the most of it. This bill, which has been adopted and which has collected more than 150 signatures, is extremely good, as it addresses this unequal issue of reducing parental allowances as a result of the payment of meeting fees. We need to change this without helping. We need more young people to be involved in decision-making, we need those people who are affected by everyday affairs in the municipalities there. We need more of them in municipal councils, in future provincial councils and so on to decide on these everyday issues. I am also pleased to say that, when we have talked here about the number of women — Mr Mikkonen has very well pointed out the number of women we now have elected in the Councils — I come from a municipality, I come from a city which is one of the most dominated by women at the moment. We've got it. There are more than half of the women who are elected, and I am extremely proud of that. I am also proud of the last season, because one fifth of those in the Ähtär Council experienced the joy of parenting, so Ähtäris is always trying to be ahead of you and to be ahead of time. This involvement of parents of young children in politics and the fact that everyone is given the opportunity to be involved in politics, as I said just now, is of course a good thing for democracy, but it must be said that the threshold is that we should go into politics. Even when I have been collecting municipal candidates — and most of us have done so — there is a greater threshold for women and especially young women to take part in the decision-making process. Asked at least two or three times more often than men, and many times if that ball stays with the family, that which leaves, the host will be running to leave. In other words, we need more means of involving parents of young children in positions of trust. This bill is excellent. It will remove these obstacles. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, especially in smaller localities, childcare is allowed at the time of these meetings, because usually evening meetings are held. I would also like to thank the women's network for this initiative and Mr Sarkki. Collecting more than 150 names for a bill is no small thing. I am sure that many of us here have tried to do this and, of course, there has been strong support from the women's network for the fact that the names of our men have also been included. This is a good initiative. I very much hope that this will be duly taken into account in the deliberations of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I hope that this important issue will be brought to an end by this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u88	Madam President! I would also like to add my voice to these thanks to the women's network. This is an extremely important bill. Indeed, it seems unreasonable that parental allowances should be cut by the fees for the duties of trust. The fact that parental allowance is not the only problem is well taken into account in this text of the initiative. I would therefore like the women's network to use the impetus and vigour here and take a little more of these, because it has been mentioned here that in the case of unemployment benefits this has already been taken into account, but I know in my own party, for example, that we have a young man who has twice turned a blind eye to Kela's decisions. It has to be said that it has in fact only been a policy in his case, because he has a disability pension income which has been twice in danger of being cut because he has received a trust bonus in municipal positions of trust. After all, it is incomprehensible that a person who, despite his disability, wants to participate in social activities is in danger of losing his income as a result. Here Mr Savola raised this important point that it may be difficult to get childcare during meetings, especially in small municipalities. In fact, today is a certain historical day that about 19 years and the raps backwards myself I was on the inspection board with a daughter who went down the floor on the rug for the first time, and today she herself has been in the same room for the first time in the Lapinlahti Audit Board meetings. I said last night, when he was a little nervous to go there, that few people there know this room as well as you do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u89	Värderade fru talman! Det är är ett alldeles fantastiskt initiativ av quinnonatverket i riksdagen. Det är sellan så ox många kan vara så överens om en så viktig fråga. Jag är oerhört glad över det, och vi ska vara över att vi kan föra den ox saken framåt. Det handlar faktiskt om att ge quinnorna, fabilliona en vöjlighet till delaktighet i sina kommuner, att it till att vi bereder vöjlighet att delta i beslutsfattandet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u90	Madam President! Not many legislative initiatives get such a positive follow-up debate, but I also agree with the previous speeches that I am actually wondering why this is only now here. That is why I would also like to take part in these thanks, in the Tomers for the women who made this happen, that is to say, in the absence of Mr Sarkkinen and Mrs Siré. This debate has already given us a great deal of praise for why this is important. I would also like to bring to the debate what is really good about this debate and putting this bill forward right now. In Finland, the birth rate is the lowest in its history. At the same time, we are concerned about the development of democracy, the participation of different people, people of different ages in politics and the low percentage of its participation. This is an extremely important message for our young fathers, mothers, men, women, that it is desirable to participate in the work of common affairs. Indeed, the income of young families is rarely so high anyway. Here too, we can support the fact that it will not be caught, at least for economic reasons, that it will not participate in the decision-making process in its own municipality or in the future in its own region. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u91	Madam President! Indeed, people in the parental allowance period should in no way be deliberately unequal in the management of trust measures compared to people in other situations who are prepared to take responsibility for social matters and decision-making at municipal level. That is why this joint legislative initiative between the distinguished representatives and the women's network is very important and necessary. Mr President! In fact, in addition to reducing parental allowance, Mr Savola raised another issue that creates inequality, which has very different practices in different municipalities, which also affects the possibility of participating in decision-making. Indeed, if the municipalities do not really want to organise and enable child care in an appropriate way during the period of trust, it will not encourage parents of families with children to participate in decision-making. But that is what we really need. Perhaps that is where the issue should be looked at, perhaps in the women's network or elsewhere here, in a more careful way than the legislation says about it. For example, it is not appropriate to offer a day-care centre for a child under the age of three or even a baby for the duration of meetings and duties of trust, but it may be necessary to offer a nurse home to help her family if this is otherwise not the case. But, everywhere, these things have not been managed by the municipalities, and if this does not happen, then perhaps we will have to deal with it here through the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u92	Madam President! I hope that at some point we are in a situation that the women's network will no longer have to do this kind of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u95	Madam President! I myself am also one of those people who would like to thank the authors of the bill. This is an important issue precisely because young family parents, mothers and fathers are involved in municipal decision-making and can then be made available to them. Although this has now been strongly emphasised by this 150 signatories, I have every reason to believe that there are about 200 decision-makers in this Chamber who will accept this. I do not see that there is anyone here who would object to this. Other shortcomings have also been raised here. I would also like to draw attention to what Mrs Myllykoski has said, that, for example, the compensation for the loss of earnings of entrepreneurs should be taken into account. This is certainly not part of this legislative initiative, but I would like to see a clear system for replacing this loss of earnings in the future in order to involve fathers and mothers in various professions and tasks as decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u96	Mr President! These plentiful signatures and the encouraging words spoken today give real faith that this matter is moving forward in a positive spirit and that this flaw will be rectified. I have almost a red ear here for these numerous praises and encouragements and thanks that have been expressed to the women's network and to me, and I would like to stress that this was a joint effort by the women's network and that everyone there actively collected names. And I would particularly like to thank Mr Sirén, whose text was based on this initiative. This really shows the strength of cooperation and the strength of the women's network. Mr President! Municipal policy and municipal decision-making are very important, and it is very important that everyone has equal opportunities to participate in decision-making and that it is encouraged — and in particular not to be penalised. We need these fathers and mothers of small children to take part in the decision-making process because, as has already been said here, the threshold for going into municipal policy is quite high anyway, and we all know that digging up their candidates is sometimes difficult, and often women in particular tend to refuse, so we should not at least have legislation to create any additional thresholds, but that legislation must treat everyone equally. There are very many positions of trust in municipalities and regions in the future, so I hope that these limits will be carefully considered in committee — the way in which this article of the law is written — so that this initiative does not go far enough to ensure that these definitions are somehow not fully in order. Let us ensure that this progresses in a good spirit. So thank you once again to all those who have signed and contributed, and thank you for this debate. I believe and hope that this will give us a great 100th anniversary of Finland's work on equality and democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u97	Madam President! It has been wonderful to listen to this debate, which has been quite unanimous, and everyone will see why this bill is needed and this inadequacy must be removed. In this debate there have been other such shortcomings, bigger and smaller ones, which we can certainly continue to work on in the Committee on Women's Network. One of the issues raised here is precisely this possibility for parents of young children to participate in municipal decision-making, which is the provision of childcare during meetings. It is true that municipalities can define how they organise it themselves, and in fact I remember for myself when I was already active in municipal politics before the children, and then after the children came, I also continued to say that in Joensuu it was something they had not been aware of and had not understood that this matter had to be dealt with. For our part, it went perfectly well, I always hired a nanny at home during the meetings: Mannerheim’s Child Welfare Association nurse came home, and it became clear receipts, which were easy to take to the city, and they then paid the compensation back. In fact, I wanted to bring this example to this effect, because there are now a huge number of municipal decision-makers across Finland in this Chamber, so that you in your own municipalities should see to it that this childcare is organised and in an appropriate way. I'm sure that nurse at home is the smartest way, because these meetings are usually at night. I hope that you will take this message forward there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u98	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u99	Värderade Talman! Under de Senaste veckorna har vår nuvarande aylpolitik variant i brannpunkten i den offentliga debatten på många sätt. Först de fruktansvärda dåden i Åbo där en aylsökande knivhögg ett flertal kvinnor varav TVå dog, och som naturligtvis ledde till rädsla, ilska och många ännu obesvarade frågor. Denna veckas nyheter har variantt avvisningsförfarandet för TVå fabillion från Afghanistan i Mellersta Finland, där asylsökande och demostranter Hindrade polisen att verkställa avvisningen i det ena fallet i Jyväskylä och det andra i Kyyjärvi, där en far och ett dagisbarn togs i förvar medan mamman och en baby i familen försvann. I den byggnaden vet vi också att en rad lagändringar har gjorts under de senaste tvåååren som en reaction till de drygt 32000 asylansökningar som Finland tog emot 2015. De ändringarna kunde inte Hindra det som skedde i Åbo, och det är viktigt att vi är ärliga och konstatelar att kanske ingen lagändring eller ingen mydighetsansats hade municipalities förhindra detta. Vi kan inte i alla lägen förhindra ondska. Däremot anser vi i svenska riksdagsgruppen som gjort lagmotionen om ändringen av utlänningslagen att det är skäl — i ljuset bland give av att småbarnsfamilier nu utvisas till krigsirjade länder och våld — att ompröva besluet att ta brt möjligheten till humanistur utlänningslagen. Det är viktigt att minnas att EU:s asylregelverk är en mininivå som alla EU-länder förväntas acceptera, aven de allra mest restriktiva såsom Ungern och Slovakien som denna vecka fick avslag på sitt besvär i EU-domstalen mot ansvarsfördelningsmekanismen i EU. Kriterierna både för asyl och uppehållstillstånd på grund av skyddsbekhov i 87 och 88 § i utlänningslagen är ytterst strikta och bygger på en Detailerrad individuell prövning. Jag ställer mig frågande till om asyl- och uppehållstillstånd på grund av skyddsbehov egentligen ens skiljer sig från varandra när det gäller kriterierna och huruvida till exempel kvinnors ställning eller barnets bästa ens tillräckligt kan beaktas i dessa snäva ramar. I jämförelse åtminstone med nordiska EU-länder är också vår praxis väldigt sträng. År 2016 var endast 27.4 percent av alla beslut positiva, 27.4 Jämfört med 60 percent i Sverige och 72 percent i Danmark. Våra myndigheter och regeringen kamdar att våra tolkningar är i linje med dem i andra EU-länder, men våra siffror pekar på ett give håll.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u100	Mr President! This bill is a rather special example of the fact that when a government makes a good, sound and responsible decision for once, one of the opposition will be able to resist it too. After all, it was not a big change in practice, but it was a step in the right direction. In the world of international migration, Finland cannot have additional attraction factors for immigration. At the moment, there are already a number of social migrants in Europe, a small part of which our resources cannot possibly be sufficient to support. Humanitarian protection was possible and should be removed just because it was an additional 'Finland' supplement which neither the EU nor international agreements required of us. If it were now returned, it would be like an invitation to those who are not entitled to asylum or subsidiary protection. Even the thought is irresponsible. In addition, I am greatly surprised by the lack of confidence in the Finnish rule of law built into the arguments put forward by the initiative. It is said to be 'justified' that 'the legislation on asylum in Finland and its application will lead to situations in which people who have received a negative decision would be subjected to very serious human rights violations in their country of origin'. This is what the entire RKP group says in practice, as well as suggesting that the civil service machinery in our country is politically controlled. However, just yesterday, the RKP was involved in the party leaders' declaration of confidence in the rule of law. What's the deal? Does the RKP dispute the Finnish rule of law or does it believe in its functioning? Mr President! What can rightly be argued is that Finland has at least one of the most generous asylum practices in the world and that Finland has one of the best legal protection systems in the world. This simply has to be enough. A person who does not receive protection here would not receive it anywhere else and will not need it. In my opinion, we should all assume that the asylum system cannot be based on arbitrariness and a declaration of inherent danger by whole regions or countries, but on individual considerations. I do not believe that there is a need for a bypass for reasons of principle and that, in addition to this, the bypass would in practice be totally unsustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u101	Mr President! The events of the past few days have, understandably, focused on returns specifically to Afghanistan. It is true that Afghanistan is certainly one of the most insecure countries in the world and Finland is one of the safest countries in the world. However, the fact that Afghanistan is as unsafe as it is does not, according to the interpretation of our judiciary, mean that there are no areas in Afghanistan where asylum seekers can be returned in a situation where they are not considered to be in need of asylum and in situations where it is considered that the secondary protection criteria are not met either. However, when the security situation in Afghanistan is poor and may become even worse, it is important that the Finnish Immigration Service, as an expert agency on these matters, monitor the security situation in Afghanistan very closely. I was wondering whether, this morning, the representatives of the Agency were also personally going to assess the situation on the ground, which would certainly be a good addition to the assessments made on the basis of the various reports and assessments made on the situation in Afghanistan. The situation must be closely monitored, and the fate and treatment of the Hazara minority in Afghanistan in particular is often very cruel, and in any case they are being harassed in Afghan society, and this has been going on for years. As a representative Mr Räsänen, during Question Time, pointed out that, especially in the case of asylum seekers belonging to the Hazara minority, there is a need for very careful weighing and sensitivity to understand the different situations of Afghan society. Mr Biaudet and his teammates are now proposing, among other things, that the category of humanitarian protection be returned to Finnish legislation. I would first like to say from this terminology that the media often talk about the abolition of humanitarian protection in Finland. Well, it certainly isn't. The whole issue of asylum, the whole of international protection, is based on humanitarian protection. We have not been deprived of humanitarian protection. Instead, a third category of our legislation has been removed, in addition to asylum and subsidiary protection, that is, this so-called humanitarian protection category. Now, Mr Biaudet and his teammates are proposing to return it. I do not support this initiative and I ask which other Nordic countries or other countries of the European Union have such a third category of humanitarian protection as we used to have in Finland. I do not know that anywhere, but, as far as I know, other countries of the Union, the other Nordic countries have satisfied themselves with the two categories in Finnish legislation, which are therefore the actual asylum, that is, the refugee status, if the person is persecuted, and then the so-called secondary protection, if the person is not personally persecuted, but his return to the country could lead to the death penalty, torture, other forms of human dignity treatment, or if the overall security situation in the country is so poor that he or she faces a personal risk of being subjected to violence. When this category of humanitarian protection does not exist in any other country comparable to Finland, I do not understand why it should be returned to Finland. It is all right that Mr Biaudet drew attention to the figures that indicate possible differences in the solution practice between the different Nordic countries, for example. It is good that the Finnish Immigration Service would try to assess why percentages of the residence permits granted in comparison with prohibited solutions differ from other countries in Finland, such as other Nordic countries or Germany, in so far as and when they do. Of course it may be the different composition of asylum seekers, but it is good to clarify these issues. Mr. Speaker! If Finland included a separate category of humanitarian protection in its legislation, I firmly believe that this would lead to our gaining international protection at a more sensitive and lower threshold than other Nordic countries or other countries in the European Union. It is clear that such a lower threshold for obtaining a residence permit from Finland on humanitarian grounds, in this case on the basis of the humanitarian protection category, would mean a factor of attraction for Finland, which I do not think is desirable. We have sometimes previously disagreed with Mr Biaudet about whether Finland had some special attraction factors at the end of 2015 that led to the arrival of thousands of young Iraqi men who came to Finland, for example, across a number of safe countries such as Austria, Germany, Denmark and Sweden. I am still firmly convinced that if there had not been, for example, family reunification or other special attraction factors for Finland, these people would not have come right up to the bottom of the road to Finland. Mr. Speaker! There would be a lot and a lot to talk about, but when the time goes by, I just say that I think that our asylum policy should be in line with the other countries of the European Union – now I am talking about the mainstreaming countries, I am not talking about Hungary or the like – and above all with the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u102	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz, who, however, agreed to admit that the Finnish practice is currently much stricter than in the other Nordic countries and that we need to find out why. In that sense, we have a much higher threshold than elsewhere, at least in the form of figures. What's the reason, maybe we'll have a different analysis. But I think it really is a problem if we think that we have the same rules in force as other countries, and yet our figures are so completely different. We have, like, supplementary figures if you look at percentages. But I also think that it is a very difficult situation. I see that the situation in 2015 was exceptional, but I also see no alternative for Europe not to assume responsibility for these people in need. It is therefore also important to consider how we can better share responsibility for people in need, including those in Iraq or Afghanistan. I hope this is a security assessment of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u103	Mr President! In my speech I actually asked Mr Biaudet one question, and when he took the floor, I expected him to answer the question. Which other countries have such a third category, a category of humanitarian protection or similar? With regard to these various percentages of positive decisions, this initiative by Mr Biaudet has been prepared very thoroughly and with merit, and I assumed that the figures set out in it are certainly the right ones, and when there are such figures, I think it is good and proper to explain why these differences arise. I did not really take a stand on what they are about. I believe that there may be more than one factor. Above all, of course, it is a question of the situation of asylum seekers in different countries, because an individual solution is being made for everyone. But the differences that exist are good to try to understand and find out why they arise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u104	Mr President! I did not remember the answer to that very question, but I think that the relevant part is precisely when we compare it, how it actually happens, that it looks like it — I cannot know that either, but it seems — that these two categories of us have tightened up even after we have removed the category of this third residence permit, because it seems that when you look at the figures you used to fit more in the first two. That is why it may not have been so relevant when it was removed, but now it seems to have tightened up, and at the same time there is a significant part that seems to fit into these first two categories in the other Nordic countries, and they will then receive a residence permit on that basis. I am satisfied that, if the practice changes, it may be a good solution, but Jol-lei, then the third will also allow for a slightly broader assessment of the circumstances, such as the interests of children,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u105	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u106	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to answer this question raised by Mr Zyskowicz, to which Mr Biaudet did not find the answer: there are no such countries in Europe. In March, the party leaders of the Left Alliance, the RKP, the Greens and the SDP issued a joint appeal to obtain a temporary residence permit as an alternative to these forced conversions. The party leaders described their appeal as humane. While others are only talking, the RKP has now, as we heard, taken steps to promote this issue. Mr Biaudet proposes in his bill that persons who are not eligible for asylum or subsidiary protection should be granted a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection. One of the reasons for this is the possible environmental disaster or the security situation in the person’s home country. Humanitarian protection was abolished, as was heard last year, and now in the presentation text of the initiative, Biaudet claims that, in the current situation, Finland may be in violation of a return ban from various human rights obligations. But what had been the record of humanitarian protection in the foreign law? Was it perhaps human rights? Was it something that the UN is monitoring and what is being done in every civilised state? Or was this perhaps just a national practice that has served as an incentive for asylum tourism in Finland and an incentive to obtain a residence permit in situations where a person entering the country would otherwise not have met these conditions of asylum and even subsidiary protection? Ladies and gentlemen, this humanitarian protection, as I said, has been a national licensing category in Finland. It is not a human right, nor has it had anything to do with international agreements. If there are no conditions for asylum or subsidiary protection, even under international agreements, the person must return to his/her place of origin. This logic, which was signed by almost the entire parliamentary group of the RKP, could be compared to a situation in which, for example, I apply for a permit to carry arms, for example, and it is not considered appropriate for me to be granted — should I then be granted a temporary, secondary permit to carry weapons? Of course not. The right to move to Finland without legal authorisation is therefore no human rights. National legislation should not create exclusive bypass lanes for staying in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u107	Mr President! When we talk about humanitarian protection, we need to go over some history. After all, humanitarian protection was in force in Finland in 2011-2016 in this previously known form. 2011 due to the fact that the interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court of the extension of the definition of subsidiary protection entered into force and since then the humanitarian protection category has also been much smaller in the award criteria. Between 2011 and 2016, 50567 asylum applications were resolved. Of these, 439 persons received a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection, i.e. 0.8 percentage points. Of 50567, 439 were granted a residence permit under this criterion, and if we now take the expired applications out of this chapter, as well as this 2016 when this criterion was abolished, on this basis the residence permit was granted 2.5% of the applicants, and we come to the conclusion that, even if we currently have humanitarian protection in the legislation, we would still not escape the debate we are having here because the border is always drawn somewhere. Not everyone gets a residence permit, and then there will always be the difficult debate about what to do with those who get a negative decision. We'd go through these. In any case, even if humanitarian protection is in force, discussions such as those in Jyväskylä will continue. That is why the question of the differences between these countries is: what has happened in terms of interpretation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u108	Mr President! A legislative initiative by the representatives of the RKP would make it easier to obtain a residence permit for asylum seekers from Finland. In the opinion of the Finns Party, asylum policy should be taken from the perspective of national interests. It is in our national interest that we do not add any new attraction to our system or a new route that would increase immigration in the pursuit of living standards. There is still a realistic risk that a wave of migrants such as 2015 will encounter Finland again. The RKP is apparently trying to do everything in its power to ensure that this happens and that Finland goes deeper into a national disaster. It is unfortunate that the Swedish-speaking common-law and Swedish-speaking identity of the Swedish People's Party in Finland has become part of the Green Left. The RKP has become a loud guardian of mass immigration based on living standards, who wants to make Finland a world social office. [of the group of Finns : Inconceivable!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u109	Värderade Talman! If people around the world were asked what the Nordic values are — which Mr Ville Tavio put forward here — I would say that the idea would probably be a long way from what we think, for example, the Swedish Democrats represent. Just a moment ago I imagined that the Finns of Peru were also at a certain distance from the Swedish Democrats. Of course, it would be great if the world were black and white: there were people who clearly needed help and people who clearly did not. But there is the grey zone between which we must also take a stand, in accordance with the precautionary principle. Where are we today? For a long time, as a result of government measures, we have a large number of undocumented people in society — people we cannot return but who are outside society. It is a security risk to some extent, and if we were to give our authorities, the Finnish Immigration Service, other tools, the situation would be better. If we still had temporary residence permits, that would be one tool. If we had humanitarian protection, which is also temporary, it would be another tool. That is what this is all about. We were talking about attraction factors. There is relatively little scientific evidence that there really is such a thing. If Finland had been unreasonably attractive in the 1990s, when there were 2.5 million refugees in Europe after the Yugoslavian crisis, they would have come here — but they did not. During the 2015-2016 crisis, 160000 came to Sweden, 32,000 came to Sweden. Compared to Sweden, we were not particularly attractive in that situation. [Juho Eerola’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u112	Mr President! If we had the same attraction as Estonia, these asylum seekers would probably go to Sweden and the rest of Europe. In Estonia, these asylum seekers have been taken with the burden-sharing, but all are likely to have left the country, a large proportion of them in Finland. It's some sort of gravitational factor. In Finland, immigration policy is too loose, and this kind of asylum tourism is being exploited by adventurers all over the world. Real needers, women and children, where are they?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u117	Mr President! We are discussing here a legislative initiative to amend the Aliens Act on the protection of asylum decisions on humanitarian grounds. At the same time, we are constantly having a debate on social values and the debate in which Prime Minister Sipilä, together with the chairmen of the parliamentary parties, called for substance and moderation, perhaps in an exceptional way, just yesterday. Mr President! It is time to redeem the valuable speeches that place great importance on human rights and respect for the rule of law. We in the Group of the Greens are defending the rule of law and we want the processes of the authorities to work smoothly and carefully, but unfortunately this is not quite the case now, because of the government's partial tightening of asylum law. At the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service Migri has tightened its policies. As a result, for the very right reasons, there is a need to worry about whether people in their own countries who are in danger of their lives are going through their affairs and, in view of the very serious humanitarian reasons, are going to have to deal with whether or not there is a possible violation of unconditional return bans in Finland and whether people are being sent to risk their lives. Mr President! Marjaana Laine, the leading lawyer in refugee counselling, who spent some 20 years working on these issues, opened the matter this week at the Finnish Human Rights Centre seminar: "The government has changed the laws in a hurry and without an assessment of the impact and options. As a result of these changes, the asylum procedure and the level of decisions have collapsed. Finland has previously had a good asylum procedure and the level of decisions. Previously, expert legal advice and legal aid were obtained as soon as possible after the application had been submitted. This made it possible to identify those in need of international protection, such as victims of torture." Economic issues are also in favour of emphasis on that very initial process. When the right decision, whether negative or positive, is reached as soon as possible, it will reduce the costs and the many problems we currently have. The Government has made legislative changes that undermine legal certainty, which were concentrated at the beginning, especially on public legal aid offices. There was no previous experience of asylum or very little. At the same time, the work of specialised private lawyers was made economically impossible, all of this being timed to a time when the need for legal protection would have been considerable. The authorities and the government now say that they are confident that Migri’s potentially incorrect decisions will be corrected in independent courts. It is a relevant question as to how this will be ensured if the applicant's arguments have not been established in Migri in the first place. The level of investigation has fallen considerably. There are already cases that have gone through the whole asylum process where persecution and special needs have been ignored. The final national decision would have meant an infringement of forced return, in which the applicant would have been at risk of being, for example, the victim of torture. I would point out that the UN Committee on the Prevention of Torture has also adopted decisions which penalise Finland. In the state of justice, it is the responsibility of the State and of every authority to ensure that no one is returned from Finland in violation of the strict return ban. Now it's harder than it used to be. Mr President! It is not human to make any wrong decision on these matters. Equal dignity and the value of life are invaluable. For these reasons, the bill of amendment of the Aliens Act signed by Mr Biaudet and others, re-introducing Article 88a of the Act. humanitarian protection is humane, fair, compatible with the rule of law and therefore acceptable and necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u118	Mr President! I should like to return to my first speech from a new point of view that these figures, which are certainly in the Biaudet initiative, are correct, but I did not draw attention to the fact that they are all about asylum seekers. Somehow in my mind, I thought it was comparing the same countries with each other. In other words, it is quite clear that one explanation — I am not saying at all that the only explanation — is that there have been far more Syrian asylum seekers coming to Sweden than to Finland, and in Finland, as far as I know, all Syrian asylum seekers receive international protection. [Eva Biaudet’s interlude] As far as the wider debate is concerned, I would like to correct some of the false claims made mainly by the Greens and the rest of the Left, inspired by Mrs Halmemenpää's speech, in connection with this debate on asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u128	Mr President! I find it gratifying that Mr Zyskowicz is talking about love for his neighbor, and I take it quite seriously this time. I think it was particularly important that he also spoke about the Hazari situation in Afghanistan, and it is important that we can think about what that situation is and that we have responsibilities towards those people who are in a very dangerous situation to return to. It is not a question of squeezing about a section or of who has decided what. The question is that at the moment the situation is such that there is a high risk that people, asylum seekers, will not be able to fit in, we have such strict criteria on the basis of the first two places of asylum and protection, that there will be no room for women or insufficient assessment of the best interests of the child if there is a high risk of being put at risk when forced back. Secondly, I would like to say that we have situations where people have been forced back, and it has not been quite successful, regardless of the destination, because the host country has not received it. I know you've been traveling around the world with cops on forced return, which is definitely not the fault of that person. So I think it's a good idea to deal with these things real and realistically and not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u129	A little too long to cross. Let's try to get back closer to the minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u130	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, I would like to say to you in your speech just now, when I stressed in my speech the respect for the rule of law, that we do not have an agreement that it is in this Chamber that we will adopt the laws which then apply to the rule of law. I'm sure we'll all agree on that. But I would also like to say that there should also be no vague dissemination of misleading information that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would like to prevent the activities of the authorities. That's not what we want. The work of the authorities must be safe, and it must be done in peace. If someone here has not trusted the authorities, is it not the government that removed humanitarian protection from the conditions of access to asylum, which has been considered by the authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u131	Mr President! When Mrs Zyskowicz raised the criticism of aid in this regard, one must be surprised at her speech in the sense that Mrs Terhohan, the Blue Minister, was very brassed at an information conference in connection with the budget debate. This is not our imagination. This is the expression of the minister of your government. In that sense, I find it strange that this is somehow being turned against us. Another issue related to this rule of law: It is also very important that the applications are dealt with to the end. In other words, if a person has an application for a work-based residence permit pending, he/she should not be required to return him/her for compulsory return. We also need to pay attention to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u132	One more response, Mr Zyskowicz. — It seems that more are coming at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u133	Mr President! Representative for Biaudet: It's not about being sassy. If you say that when a person is being forced back and that it is not possible, then it is not the fault of the person concerned — of course it is his fault, he could have returned voluntarily and it would have been an excellent success. Now understand the difference: voluntary return is possible, forced return in many situations is impossible, as we well know. Mr Yanari: it is true that government records or the appearances of Minister Terho may have been open to interpretation, but after all the leading factors in this matter — Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior — not to mention the smaller factors, such as Zyskowicz, had said that no one was involved in criminalising assistance, this truth should have been believed and continued to spread false information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u134	Irade the Talman! Of course, when the Minister for Culture and European Affairs puts this budget debate at the top of the agenda, it is appropriate to ask what will then change in relation to the current situation, because this was probably agreed within the government. Mr Zyskowicz said earlier that, of course, opposition to the authorities is criminal, as is already the case today. So it seems that you have now agreed to change this, and then it is our job to ask what is at stake if the Minister for European Affairs and Culture puts it at the top of the budget line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u135	Mr. Speaker! Certainly this was not the top theme of the budget line, but it may have been very important for a group. It was now a question of examining whether there should be a separate criminalisation of illegal residents in order to prevent the activities of the authorities. That's what we're working on. Personally, I am not at all convinced that it should be criminalised separately, because, as the representative has said here, we already have legislation to harm officials, we have insubordination regulations in the same chapter of the criminal code. I am not at all convinced that specific regulation is needed here. With regard to Mr Yanar's speech, I would have said that I think he raised an important point on which I agree: if a person is undergoing a process based on a work-based authorisation, it is not in the opinion that he will be converted because of this negative decision on asylum, but it is appropriate to wait until this process is completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u137	How this work permit could be used as an extension of asylum policy: in other words, when you do not have the right to asylum, you will then apply for a work permit to obtain a right of residence, and it will again have an automatic system of free social security for a few months. When does this social security machine end? As far as Mr Terho's speeches are concerned, Prime Minister Sipilä said at some point that Terho's speeches need not be taken particularly seriously. I think it told us all what it was about. I would like to make this point, which relates to these asylum seekers whose nationality or identity is unknown. Despite the fact that a young man applies for asylum without documents and is announced for his birthday on 1 January, there are branded clothes and smartphones or, alternatively, names and identities for more than one departure. There is therefore a legitimate doubt as to how genuine this lack of documents is. What means could we have to determine his identity, such as the law on confiscating the mobile phone and finding out who it is about?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u138	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz is missing. He's not here, but I would have read to him. The news I found on the financial pages, which refers to the minutes of the government's budget negotiations, which refers to this very criminalisation. It says here that 'the legislation on the criminalisation of illegal residence, such as accommodation or concealment, is being specified', and this is really unclear to many. In the A-Studio of this evening, even Minister Risikko did not really know what was going on, so that this is a government information fiasco, what is happening here. It is recalled that until a few years ago, Prime Minister Sipilä was offering his own apartment to people seeking refuge in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u139	Mr President! I too think it is quite right to ask what the government is driving and whether the opposition can have confidence that the government will not continue the foreign policy and asylum policy of the basic Finnish Nuiva Manifesto. Here, too, the Finns have assured that the government has implemented such a policy, and it has felt that the Coalition Party and the Centre have given this area entirely to the Finns when they are in the government and now to the group that continues them, so that they can make all the other decisions that are more important to them in peace. So maybe it's not that strange that trust isn't so strong, but we're hoping for a better one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u140	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u141	Mr President! Indeed, the category of humanitarian protection was removed from the requirement of the Finns, and it was the right decision from the Parliament, because then the Finnish asylum policy was changed to match our control countries. Humanitarian protection was indeed Finland’s own national permit category. As has been said several times here today, it is very important that Finland’s attraction factors are not at least greater than in other European countries. Indeed, a total of 32476 asylum seekers came to Finland in the 2015 asylum crisis. It was about ten times more than in previous years. Most of these applicants came to Finland throughout Europe. There were several safe countries on their route. They could have applied for asylum there. A legitimate question has arisen, not only here in Parliament, but also among the citizens, as to why this happened. Everyone can reflect on this themselves. Mr President! Our asylum policies must enjoy the confidence of our citizens. As has been said today in the debate, the granting of a temporary residence permit to those who have received a negative asylum decision would also be another attraction which Parliament would not wish to create under conditions. It is in Finland's national interest that this does not happen, although the Green Left and the RKP wish it. The removal of the category of humanitarian protection from foreign law was in due course the right solution, and I do not support the bill taken by Mr Biaudet. On the other hand, the concealment of people who have received a negative asylum decision from the authorities must be criminalised as a matter of urgency, and I urge the government to take prompt action in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u142	Mr President! Yesterday, indeed, all party leaders made, I might say, a historic joint exit, where they made an appeal for a calm, factual and respectful debate. I would like to see a debate on this subject that we can really do what all the party leaders said yesterday. And when we are discussing this humanitarian protection or the challenges that have arisen for people who have received a negative asylum decision and a final removal decision, it must be noted that we must not give false proof that somehow all the challenges would be eliminated if we still had the old legislation in force or, for example, if we were to extend the category of temporary protection. In any case, we are in a situation where not everyone seeking protection in Finland can obtain a residence permit, when the question is whether they return themselves or return them, and whenever they have to resort to so-called forced return, it is certainly not the path that anyone would like. Let me remind you that, on the basis of humanitarian protection, residence permits were obtained — depending on the method of calculation — at most 2.5% of applicants. And when it is considered that we have thousands of people who are now receiving a negative decision, not all of them would have obtained a residence permit on a humanitarian basis, when we would have the same debate that we are having now, for example, with regard to these cases in Jyväskylä. It is good to say this honestly now, so that we do not give the wrong impression that, in this case, all the problems will somehow be eliminated. That's why I'd do it. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u145	Mr President! First of all, I must thank the RKP for this initiative and also for the fact that you have stood up for human rights throughout this period. You have talked about people in vulnerable situations and expressed your concerns. Thank you for this in public and thank you also to those representatives in the whole Chamber who have spoken and made a voice out of the same things. That's what we need in these days. I think it is necessary to discuss what are the framework conditions for Finland's access to asylum. I believe that humanitarian reasons are one of them, naturally. I even find it strange that the majority of Social Democrats voted in favour of abolishing this law during this period. It is strange, it is really exciting that the Social Democrats were not on the side of legal entry in this area. Finland has politicians who are obsessed with immigrants. It doesn't surprise anyone. We have seen many incomprehensible exits, and nothing is enough for them. They talk about extortion, they talk about the fact that there are many attraction factors. It is not enough for them to blackmail these things, and that does not surprise anyone. But if we are talking about the control of immigration, it is the creation of legal means and fairness that play a key role. I therefore warmly support the creation of good, legal means. It is also fair for the applicant, and other reasons are also taken into account in the asylum process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u146	Mr President! I consider the initiative of Mr Biaudet and other representatives of the RKP to be well founded. Marjaana, Chief Counsellor of Refugee Counselling Laine said this week at the seminar: "The government has changed the laws in a hurry without an assessment of the impact and options. As a result of these changes, the level of asylum procedures and decisions has collapsed. Finland has previously had a good asylum procedure and the level of decisions. Previously, expert legal advice and legal aid were obtained as soon as possible after the application had been submitted. This made it possible to identify those in need of international protection, such as victims of torture. The government made changes to the law that undermine legal certainty, one of which was that the initial phase was concentrated on public legal aid agencies which had no experience or expertise in this matter." In other words, we have exposed Finnish society and asylum seekers to wrong decisions in Migri and trust that higher courts will then replace them. Overall, the discretion of the authorities in favour of the applicant has been reduced. In particular, in such a situation, I think it would be necessary, in a way, to have such an intermediate category that, for humanitarian reasons, a residence permit can be granted even if the actual asylum is not granted. In addition, I think it would be appropriate to make it easier for Finland to come to work here from outside Europe as well. We consider it quite honorable that Finns throughout history have also sought to work in other continents. Exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u147	Mr President! Perhaps I should like to repeat this again, because there are so many things that have been discussed here. After all, the bill is about the challenge and the problem that, at the moment, the number of positive permits granted by Finland is completely opposite to those of the other Nordic countries. If you compare it with Denmark, for example, which is known to be a country of quite a hard asylum policy, then in 2016 72% of the positive will have been given to it when we have 27. This means that we now seem to have reached the threshold for this subsidiary protection or asylum to be met. It's very high. It's actually the clou how it's solved. There may be many ways forward, but I think it would be easiest to restore this third category. It is good to remember that, for example, the kidnapping of relatives, serious acts of violence against the applicant or torture or repeated threats to the applicant, according to Migri’s interpretation, do not justify the granting of protection today. Unaccompanied minor asylum seekers also receive negative decisions on the grounds of family care, even though it is not possible to trace family members. For example, the deteriorating security situation in the country of asylum seekers has not been considered a basis for a change in strict application practice. In fact, this is the clou, and here is one solution that I hope Parliament will consider. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u148	Mr President! In my last speech, I forgot to say that this is exactly what Mr Biaudet referred to in his last speech, and it certainly makes sense to do this research, which is why in Finland, for example, acceptance rates or rejection rates are enormously different from other control countries. The idea behind the whole debate at European level was that we need common practices in Europe, a common policy, so that another country is not in an enormously different position from another country. However, we now see that although we have been working on uniform practices all the time, this has not happened at everyday level, however. For Finland, good analogue countries, for example, are the other Nordic countries in the area of asylum policy. It is certainly worth going through this carefully, which is why the percentages of positive decisions differ from the other Nordic countries, especially when compared within different nationalities. I will say that to the end when Mr Yanar accused us of being somewhat heartless when, for example, we accepted the removal of the humanitarian category. I would remind you, however, that at the time we were just suggesting that those who were here as interveners, some 170 persons, would still have been granted a residence permit under the old law. Secondly, it is good to say that, even if we still have this humanitarian protection, only about 2.5% of applicants would be able to obtain a residence permit on that basis, and then we ask what happens after what happens to the rest of them. This is what you can answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u149	Mr President! At least at the end of the debate, I would like to say that I do not deny that I find the speech just made by Mr Yanar a little special about creating more legal routes and opportunities for asylum seekers to stay in Finland. I just thought that the Finnish Parliament's laws and the authorities and courts will then interpret and enforce them according to their best skills and abilities. If and when some parties undoubtedly have different views on what is an appropriate immigration policy, then it is of course important to discuss it here in Parliament, and I also agree that as factually as possible, of course. That is what democracy is and must be at its best. However, as long as the current legislation is in force, it will of course also require the authorities to act, and this also applies to the expulsion of those who have received a negative asylum decision. Mr President! I would also like to see the government report on the total cost of immigration which it promised a long time ago. This would also help us parliamentarians and decision-makers to draw conclusions as to whether our current practice may be too generous and whether it is linked to the appeal factors that asylum policy and immigration policy and its changes should take into account later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u150	Mr President! Two things: Firstly, the current law does not in any way oblige the authorities to undertake forced return in cases where an asylum seeker who has received a negative decision is in the work permit process. In other words, if the ministry were to rationalise the guidelines on this issue, it would be possible to achieve a more reasonable and humane practice. The second point is what Mr Savio said: It's our job here to legislate. Another bill, in addition to this bill by Mr Biaudet and other representatives of the RKP, which I consider to be well-founded, is the initiative — the first signatories are representatives of Kontula, Rehn-Kivi, Vartiainen, Emma Kari and Tuppurainen — which proposes that this consideration of the availability of labour be abandoned in the work permit exercise. This would also be a step towards making it easier for you to come to work in Finland. That's what we need. We all know these threats about the sustainability gap and the fact that paying pensions in the coming years and decades is too heavy a burden for the national economy. That's why we need people here to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u151	Mr Yanar, I have the floor. — — — — Perhaps to clarify this point, at a time when the representative asks for a reply and there is only one real speech left on the list, which will also be used on the spot, I would like to admit these first in the order in which the actual one, and then the reply, first. — Now, Mr Yanar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u152	Thank you, Mr President. To Mr Savilo, you could briefly say that what you just said was quite descriptive of the thinking of the Finns. If we consider what is controlled immigration, it is precisely that people legally enter the country that are able to apply for asylum on various grounds. Of course, the Fundamental Finns' agent has this kind of immigration where no one would get a residence permit here, or at least it sometimes sounds like it. When talking about a person who is in need, we have suggested many things. We have said that we need to increase the number of quota refugees, and there are many other ways, but you do not agree to anything. You are cutting development aid — or in fact you are not cutting it at the moment, but you were cutting it a few months ago when you were in the government. I still do not understand what is a fair basic Finnish immigration policy. People are not being helped anywhere. The amounts of money that would enable the countries to enter into force will be cut. There is a huge contradiction here. I prefer to parasitic Finland with fair rules, with which Finland looks through who needs asylum, to take those people who need asylum, and then there would be a fair system in which we could all continue our good lives in this great country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u153	Mr President! It may not be appropriate to prolong this debate unnecessarily, but of course it is now clear to all listeners and followers that the views of the Finns and the Greens on immigration policy differ quite clearly. We may think that these costs also need to be looked at in exactly the same way as all the other items in government spending, and that is what I asked the government to give us this report on the total cost of immigration as soon as possible. Under no circumstances do I want anyone to have the impression that the Finns of Finland do not want any foreigners coming to Finland. If, for example, foreigners enter Finland for work, it is quite understandable, especially in cases where Finland cannot find sufficient skills for certain tasks. However, we do not want this system of ours to be misused either. It is quite clear that, on proper grounds, it is desirable to stay in Finland, and if, for example, the authorities have given negative decisions to asylum seekers, then they too must be accepted and then applicants must leave the country or be removed from the country. However, the most meaningful discussion possible will be enjoyed, and I understand that these differences of opinion will probably not be evened out during this one-session. However, I think there has been a good debate today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-07-ps-83.u154	Mr President! In order not to leave the last word as Mr Savio's speech, I could say that I would also like to call for the benefits of immigration to be looked at. This is the rhetoric about the costs of immigrants that you have cultivated, and I also call for the benefits to be looked through. There are many areas in Finland, especially in the capital region, which would not be able to do without the contribution of immigrants, and perhaps could end this whole debate with immigrants building this country equally. We are not a separate part of this society, but we are equally Finnish. Let us all build this great land together. - Thank you.
