ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, arade ledamoter! On Friday, we received a sad message about President Mauno Koivisto's disappearance. We were deeply saddened by the fact that his life has been such an important part of the common story of all of us Finns about our country. I fredags nåddes vi av sorgebudet att President Mauno Koivisto gått bort. Det var med djup sorg vi mottog dödsbudet, för hans liv har variantt en så viktig del av alla finländares gemensamma berattelse om vårt Fosterland. Stability and responsibility. If Mauno Koivisto's political thinking should be summed up in two words, perhaps these would be the words. A stable external policy, a responsible economic policy. Understanding history, deep civilization and a sense of humor built a person whom so many Finns admired. The Koivisto hardly ever said directly how things are, but how they do not seem to be. This way of thinking through contrasts was already evident when Koivisto worked after the war in the port. "Although there is a continuing conflict about policy,the world of unease and uncertainty is experiencing a Since childhood, Koivisto had experienced the world’s unrest and uncertainty. War, the political battles at the port and the excitement of the Cold War cast a cautious shadow on the world view of Koivisto. He often used the words "likely" and "obviously". These words spoke of caution, but not hopelessness. Caution can be wisdom if it is used skillfully. This is exactly what Mauno Koivisto did. During the Cold War, Koivisto skillfully built a link between East and West. Later he strengthened Finland’s links with the rest of Europe. During the Koivisto period, Finland joined the Council of Europe and began negotiations on membership of the European Community. On the same day that Koivisto handed over the President's post to his successor, the conditions for Finland's membership were laid down in Brussels. The Koivisto believes that the best guarantee for the positive development of international relations is increasing economic interdependence and decreasing inequality. These are the things he was working for. However, the most valuable legacy of Mauno Koivisto’s political work is the strengthening of Finnish democracy. Although he never sought a parliament, he can be considered a great Finnish promoter of parliamentaryism. The strengthening of the role of Parliament began in 1981 when the Prime Minister Koivisto refused to accept the president's resignation because he felt that his government had the support of a majority in parliament. As President, Koivisto strengthened the position of Parliament and the government responsible for it in relation to the presidential institution. Koivisto’s goals of strong Finnish parliamentaryism were finally fulfilled in many respects in the 2000 Constitution. According to the Koivisto, "a better triangle with its heel than its tip." This statement can be seen as a statement in favour of the tripartite division of power, but also as Koivisto's view of the balance of power relations between Parliament, the Government and the President. Koivisto always held Parliament as a strong position in the triangle. Here under the North Star is now one less star. On behalf of all the Members of the European Parliament, I would like to express my deep condolences to Mrs Tellervo Koivisto, Mrs Assi Koivisto-Allonen and other people close to President Koivisto. Här under Polstjärnan Saknas nu en stjärna. På alla riksdagsledamoters vägnar vill jag framföra mitt djupa deltagande till de anhöriga, särskilt till fru Tellervo Koivisto och till Assi Koivisto-Allonen. With great warmth, gratitude and respect, we are now celebrating a moment of silence in honor of President Koivisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u2	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u3	Mr President! I would like to speak on this trial of municipalities for the long-term unemployed, hard-to-work, because I am very close to this for a very long time. Before coming to Parliament, I worked for quite a number of years in Sastamala, then Vammala, a workshop for the long-term unemployed and the youth unemployed, as chairman of the steering group, and during that time there was a very similar experiment with a functioning system to what is now being proposed in this government proposal. That is why I wanted to make a few points of departure. Above all, I welcome the fact that this municipal trial law has now been brought to Parliament. This offers tools and opportunities to tackle long-term unemployment more effectively in the regions affected by this experiment. From Pirkanmaa, for example, this includes the central region of Tampere and Sastamala and Punkalaidun. This experiment concerns those unemployed who have fallen from earnings-related unemployment benefit and accounts for 60% of the unemployed in these regions, i.e. a very significant number. In the process of reforming employment services as part of the regional reform, I hope that the basic premise would be that we have different operating models for different groups of the unemployed. In the case of unemployed people who have recently become unemployed or have graduated from school as new job seekers and who have good job opportunities and excellent employment opportunities, it is natural to use private service providers quite actively, as has been done in Denmark, for example. I can see that this direction is definitely the right one. On the other hand, with regard to those who are hardest to employ — I am talking here, for example, about those who have been unemployed for more than two years, who, according to the December 2016 Employment Survey, were 59,000 in Finland, as stated in this government proposal — I believe that this municipal model, or perhaps rather a job-specific model, or, in some cases, a regional model, perhaps in smaller regions, is the right way to manage this arrangement. This is also the so-called German model, that is, Germany, including Denmark, has been separated from the labour force that is more easily employed and then from the labour force that is more difficult to employ. With regard to the labour force that is more difficult to employ, there are often many problems for job seekers. There may be life-management problems, over-indebtedness or some other challenges that make employment particularly difficult, and if private activities are extended, we risk someone pretending to give education and that society pays for it, but the real results are very low. This model has been tried in Australia in the past, but it has been found not to be good, and it has been removed, it has been changed. I hope that this point of view will also be understood in Finland as this issue is being developed in the future. It is also linked to the fact that public authorities have to take decisions there and they have traditionally been public sector matters. Of course, there are some exceptions, but it is generally the case. So I would see that this division is very important, and my personal experience is that at municipal level, these matters can be handled quite well when they are actually taken care of and they have also been adequately resourced. What is essential is that each unemployed person's case can be dealt with individually. These regular interviews, which are also referred to here — at least every three months — are absolutely essential, and it is very important to find out what the reasons are for not being employed, even in the situation which, fortunately, we currently have, more and more job vacancies and, in many areas, we also have labour shortages. So this individual takeover of situations is very, very important. From my own experience in my home country, I can say that, once good cooperation has been achieved between the municipal social services, educational institutions, vocational training institutions and businesses and the employment service, considerable results have been achieved, i.e. a significant reduction in the number of unemployed people, as well as youth unemployment. In other words, this model works when only enough is invested in it and things are handled responsibly and not pretend to be handled. It is also the case that, in this current system, when municipalities receive fines for not having activated the long-term unemployed, it is, in principle, a good system for encouraging activation, but more results can be achieved by individually dealing with the issues of these people and thereby building paths for working life. The way to unemployment may sometimes be behind a mass decision if, for example, a large industrial plant ends, but each one's way to a new job is individual and must be organised in this context. The Danish model, of which much has been said in Finland, is based precisely on the fact that there is a very individual service, but also on very individual and precise monitoring. If, then, the unemployed job seeker fails to comply with the obligations he has been jointly agreed upon does not seek, for example, the jobs he should apply for or does not do any other active action that has been agreed upon, then the official will then have the right to terminate his unemployment benefit. So the system will be possible, it will be understanding, but it will also be punitive if it does not meet the obligations. And this is very important that we take this side seriously, because we cannot afford a large number of Finns to drift outside this society. It is very important that we become involved in society. For those who, even in spite of these good measures, do not open up the way to the labour market, I also think it is very important that inclusive social protection is developed and can then be involved in, for example, voluntary work and thus contribute to the common good. I believe that everyone should have the right to do so and that it will also enable them to be able to enter the labour market at a later stage through voluntary work. All in all, I welcome the fact that this experiment is now starting. The timetable is reasonably tight because the law is intended to enter into force only 31. July and the trial will last until the end of 2018, i.e. in this respect the display time for the results will be reasonably limited, but, as I said, there is already previous experience here so that I believe that this model will work. Finally, I would like to point out that, although I believe in private entrepreneurship as an approach in almost all situations, the position of those most difficult to employ is that it will also require a significant contribution from society in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The Vice-President, Mr Satonen, gave a good presentation on this matter for a long time. So this is an employment experiment for the long-term unemployed, and we absolutely need all the means, new concrete means, even bold means and measures, to get as many people as possible to work. It is positive that the economic direction has now changed and that the employment situation is also improving. According to a recent release from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the number of unemployed job seekers Employment services statistics are declining even better than anticipated. This year the total number of unemployed job seekers is forecast to be around 314000, which is on average as much as 35,000 fewer than last year. Next year, the number of unemployed job seekers is expected to fall by 30,000 and the following year by 15,000. The number of long-term unemployed, which is the subject of this proposal, is also projected to fall particularly strongly this year. This year the number of long-term unemployed will fall by 23,000 compared to last year, when the number of long-term unemployed was 124,000. Next year the number of long-term unemployed is estimated to be 85,000 and in 2019, when this government decides through, about 78000. At the same time, employment will increase this year and next year moderately, according to the recent short-term labour market forecast of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy: the employment rate is forecast to rise to 69.4% this year, and next year growth and growth will continue so that we are at that 70% threshold. Minister of Labour Lindström said that the growth of the Finnish economy and the government's employment measures are gradually beginning to appear in the employment figures, and this is certainly good news for everyone in Finland. But, Mr President, more needs to be done to strengthen employment and growth, and this is one of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u5	Let's take Mäkipää, Laukkanen and Filatov from the list, and then the debut if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u6	Mr President! In line with the Government’s objectives, reforms to improve the incentive for work, the attractiveness of employment, the functioning and competitiveness of the employment administration are intended to increase labour supply, entrepreneurship and diversification of the business structure and strengthen public finances. Increasing employment is the most important task for the country's economic growth. At the end of January, there were over 342,000 job seekers at the Employment and Economic Development Offices. However, the number was 25,000 lower than one year earlier, and the number of jobs has also increased. In the event of a reduction in employment appropriations, new ways must be found of reducing the employment and employment thresholds. Less money must bring more results. The Government aims to promote a culture of experimentation. This will test models that bravely challenge old practices and find on the basis of experience the ways that work. The purpose of the experiment presented is therefore to reduce long-term unemployment and to contribute to the increase in the employment rate. The target group is mainly those who have been unemployed longer and young unemployed. In addition, the emphasis is on those unemployed who have not been involved in employment-promoting services in the face of prolonged unemployment. The proposal proposes that the municipalities involved in the experiment should be responsible for providing public employment and business services in pilot areas to the customer target group. The target groups are based on the own views of the pilot regions on which regions could best prepare for the provision of services in the regional model by developing the services of the target group. These are experimental groups in five regions. As Mr Satonen mentioned, for example, in the pilot region of Pirkanmaa, the municipality would be responsible for providing services to unemployed jobseekers who are not entitled to earnings-related unemployment allowance. The target group would be around 60% of the unemployed in the pilot area. The Government's proposal for a law on the regional provision of public employment and business services and the experiment on working life is linked to the implementation of the two key projects of the Government Programme. Their aim is to create a comprehensive, cross-border cost-effective operating model for job seekers and employers-customers after 2019, when public employment and business services are transferred from the state to the organisation of the provinces. The Government has stated that, from the beginning of 2019, employment and economic development offices, economic development centres, transport centres and environmental centres will cease as independent agencies and their tasks will be transferred to the regions. The regional reform brings together business services and public employment and business services as a new growth service. In the regional model, the province is responsible for organising the public growth service. Growth services can be provided by enterprises, the third sector and publicly owned enterprises. During the experiment, social welfare and health services are still the responsibility of municipalities, where pilot municipalities would be responsible for providing both social and health care services and public employment services to the unemployed. Thus, municipalities would have better opportunities to contribute to promoting the employment of unemployed job seekers in the target group by building comprehensive service paths according to the needs of customers. This is very important. The extension of competence would also allow municipalities to use the customer information system of the Employment and Economic Development Office for customers who are part of the target group of the experiment. Improved access to information on unemployed people in their own region was seen in almost all pilot applications as a key basis for the success of the experiment and the achievement of the objectives. Mr President! A number of opinions have been received, in which almost everyone feels that the duration of the experiment is too short to verify its intended impact. The opinions suggest that the experiment should be continued for a transitional period of the regional reform until the end of 2019 or 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u7	Madam President! One of the important objectives of this government has been to seek the benefits of various experiments and to create such a political model of experimental culture in Finland, and I welcome it as a way of approaching, even in this case, such a difficult subject as the long-term unemployed and the employment of people. Maria Kaisa Aula, rapporteur appointed by Minister of Justice and Employment Jari Lindström, outlined in early 2016 the views of the various actors on measures to reduce the employment threshold for employers and the employment threshold for the unemployed and thus reduce unemployment. Aula proposed regional trials of employment services to be carried out between 2017 and 2018. At the beginning of April 2016, the Government stated that public employment and business services will be transferred from the state to the responsibility for organising the regions at the beginning of 2019. Employment and Economic Development Offices and the Centres for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment will cease as independent agencies and their tasks will be transferred to the regions. Here is an interesting situation, when the municipality is the only one who fully knows the employment situation in its own region, and this experiment is now being carried out in such a way that these municipalities are responsible for this experiment and, as it were, for accelerating support employment and directing a person to work, and yet the aim is to reset the experiences of this experimental entity and then transfer them to this new province. I do not think that this approach is terribly logical, which is now being implemented with this, and I consider it to be one of the weak points of this experiment. At least many large cities, the ten largest cities, who feel that they have the best opportunity to take responsibility for employment activities, business activities directly under the city's own direction, see this government's policy of moving to this new province, such as to distance this service provider even further and then the unemployed. Then this rehabilitative work activity, which at the moment, at least in large cities, is very well managed with the third sector. There are a lot of subsidised employment places in organisations that produce complementary social work for the city, and it is felt that now that this potential result leaves this too, and that this whole future of adult social work is currently completely obscured in this legislative reform package, there is little talk about it, so it is urgent for the government to give further instructions — or I do not know how they have thought about it, but there is reason to discuss how to keep this third-sector contribution involved in this. I therefore wish for a good debate on this now that the debate begins, how this rehabilitative work, the third sector, the adult social work, how to make this tripartite work well. Of the municipalities that answered the questionnaire, approximately 140 own a workshop or other unit providing employment services. Most of these are also targeted at youth work, and here too this third sector role is quite significant. Here the representatives of the government, who have now given more thought to these future policies, could now open this coffin of wisdom and tell us how this third-sector activity will be taken into account in these experiments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u8	Mr President! This experiment is very welcome because it will continue the work that was done during the previous parliamentary term. At the time, municipalities, in fact a very large proportion of Finnish municipalities, were given the opportunity to provide better services for the long-term unemployed and to find their own ways to work and work in the nearby labour market. I have to say, in this situation, when I listened to Mr Satos' speech that he knew what he was talking about. He did not talk very much about this proposal, but he talked about the difference in the management of unemployment in the markets and municipalities. And when the time for this experiment is very short — I understand it, because it goes further than the previous experiment, and it is good, but it is challenging, because at the same time the government is carrying out a regional reform in which employment services are going to be regionalised and changed to the subscriber-producer model — I would like to see the lessons learned from this previous municipal experiment being used in this work. I myself think that when it comes to standard employment, hard employment, skilled labour and willing employers, then private companies and markets, which are certainly specialising in sectors, will have a lot to offer because they will be able to make the job service more efficient by focusing on the needs of certain sectors. If we look at the experiments that have been done with Opteam, for example, we used a specific target group in Uusimaa where the unemployed had been unemployed for three to six months and the results were good. But when you look at the experiments that have been done with those who are harder to work and the long-term unemployed, then the results of the private job broker are not at all the same. That is why I am very inclined to think in the same way as Vice-President Satonen, that for the long-term unemployed, it is worth sticking to the knowledge that, for example, municipalities have, what organisations have and what the public side has, because it is not as easily inclined to be a business as private or this little one might say, perhaps an easier employment agency. It may not be easy, because there will then be another competence gap and on that side the challenges will be different. I would hope that, now that the government is preparing this regional reform, it will think about the fact that we in the organisation have a lot of skills that are of particular benefit to people who have been unemployed for a long time. This expertise should not now be allowed to drown in the market. If we go to a purely subscriber-producer model, where only companies can provide services, we will run into the rules of EU support policy very quickly. We come across very quickly that companies are working with their own core business, as it were, but it may be difficult for them to work together, for example, with the social welfare and health services, which are another company and are operating with their own core business again. We need to find both financial and legislative adhesives so that this cooperation does not disappear. I think that most of the experts in the field of working life and long-term unemployment believe that the employment service centres, i.e. the TYPs, have been one of the best methods of tackling long-term unemployment. It has been about better linking the municipal social welfare and health services, employment services and employment services of the employment administration and rehabilitation services of Kela. The customer has received centrally tailored services and support from one of the hatches. Now, if this TYP concept is destroyed in the regional government reform, we will lose much of the synergy that has been gained from those services, and once again the services of the unemployed will be torn apart and one will bounce in one direction and the other will bounce in the other direction. I therefore hope that when this major regional reform and the related labour policy reform are carried out, this history will be carefully looked at. I myself think that young people and the long-term unemployed are the target groups that should be managed through municipalities or through cooperation between municipalities in employment regions. If the government does not give in to this, let us hope that the municipalities and organisations will be able to provide services directly to the provinces and not so that they will be forced to re-incorporate their activities, because the vast majority of small municipalities, for example, have said in the hearings of the committee that it is so challenging for them that they do not necessarily go there, and the organisations have brought the same message. Otherwise, we will be faced with a situation where we do not have a market that provides services for our most vulnerable unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u9	It is now possible to use the replies if you want to be debated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u10	Madam President! This bill is very necessary and worthy of support. Juha One of the main points of Sipilä's government, one of the key projects, is that various pilots, experiments, are launched which would add value to employment, among other things. When each of us knows that every municipality in Finland has an obligation to employ its own citizens and unemployed people — it is shown, among other things, by the share of labour market support in the municipality, which means that we have an active duty in the municipalities to deal with it as well as possible — we need, of course, the support of the future regional administrative authorities during the new administration and some money from the state. And then what is absolutely important in this picture is that local employers can be reasonably integrated into this. This cooperation has the potential to succeed, because the most difficult people to employ on the free labour market will probably not be able to do right away, but when they are brought into contact with employers and even with lighter work, it is a good start.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u11	Mr President! A little earlier, there was also talk of inclusive unemployment benefit. At the moment, the situation is only a little difficult in that it seems that this inclusive unemployment benefit only obliges the unemployed but does not oblige the state or the employment services, there is no need to provide work. And if you can't find a job even though you've applied for it, you'll be punished for it. I would like to see these solutions now being sought together in order to deal with unemployment, also bearing in mind that the unemployed should have the opportunity to have enough bread on the table, because it is one guarantee that they will be able to look for that work further. As such, all the experiments that are being carried out to improve employment are good things. Of course, at the moment it seems a little gloomy in that, among other things, the experts in that committee today said that although the government says there will be 60,000 new jobs, the government will not tell us where they will be, and it seems that the government has set up
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u12	Madam President! I would have discussed this statement by Mr Filatov, which was quite strong in favour of not being able to set up employment services. Now, of course, this should also be seen from the starting point of whether the employment services are currently playing, and one might say that they are not necessarily playing very well in that regard. Now we could find more diverse ways, different producers for different types of unemployed in that respect. But I do understand the point of view, and we are talking about the long-term unemployed and those who have social problems and challenges more than that we need to find these joint models, but we do not need to drive down a good approach instead because there is a different form of it. That is a lot to do with the organiser, and in fact the organiser has a duty, even when there is a market failure, to carry out the service, even if it is his own business, but it is a company.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u13	Mr President! Of course, it is a little difficult to discuss the government's plans, because the laws are not yet in Parliament, but if I have understood the preparation for growth services correctly, then it leaves an even stricter obligation to enter into a partnership than the law on social services and there would be no right for the province to provide services except in the event of market failure. This big fear is how this whole process is run on such a fast schedule in such a way that it works when we know that many of the players who work with the long-term unemployed are not going to enter into the company, and we also know that companies have slightly different rules of play than, for example, third-sector operators, where certain things can be done with more customer attention. I absolutely believe that companies' skills should be exploited, but at the same time I feel equally strongly that the knowledge of organisations and the competence of municipalities should not be thrown into a scrap heap.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u14	Madam President! Actually, this is what I'm talking about. But is it the beginning of evil and just that it is in the form of a company? I guess that's the big question that makes the operation transparent. Then it is truly the responsibility of the subscriber or the organiser, what kind of service is ordered, how wide-ranging is ordered for the service. In my opinion, the wrong point is being addressed when it comes to the form or the method itself, rather than talking about whether something is being done well or badly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u15	Mr President! What has been raised here about the role of voluntary work and the role of organisations is particularly important if we are talking about long-term employment. Of course, it is possible to set up social enterprises, and many organisations are now really thinking about whether or not to go into company form, but there is so much expertise there, especially to raise people in a difficult situation in life, that I claim that it may never be possible to get that personal tattoo in business. But this is certainly not the case, nor is it the intention of our future legislation, to displace the third sector, but it would be very important to make that knowledge available there. That is why we must listen to these speeches with a rather sensitive ear and also think that no standards will be met when this employment is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u16	Madam President! In this context, Mr Jaskari used the word 'transparency' when it comes to business activity to create a more open culture. Well, I'm sure it's a matter of opinion, but when it comes to business, companies — at least those companies in whose governments I've been — have their own business and they are their own business. If you would then bring in a package of transparency laws, it could change everything, but I certainly do not believe that this government is going to do that. I am particularly pleased that Vice-President Satonen recognizes these problems. And as Mr. Filatov pointed out, we need to make sure that... The province is kind of like looking for a needle in a haystack, but the municipality is there in a haystack, close to those people and better to find them jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u17	Mr President! I believe that Mr Lindström will listen carefully and will certainly take all these into account. However, I would like to move on to this bill and not so much to talk about the possibility that the Growth Services Act will be coming later. In particular, the opposition has requested that the government take some measures to improve the situation of the long-term unemployed and young people in particular, and here is one good proposal from the liquidator. However, here, as Mr Satonen said, is the experience of Denmark, where the individual service produces the best results. Each person has his own life paths, his own life management problems, and these regular meetings, the personal meetings involved, have already been praised. Of course, it has not been possible for 100 percent yet, but they are very welcome in this person’s life management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u18	Madam President! I would also take very seriously the concerns which I believe have been rightly expressed in this Chamber today. The fact that the role of local and third sector organisations must be safeguarded is absolutely essential. There is no point in it if, sooner or later, such an ideological need, as it were, could be said, drives the final solution into such a way that these well-functioning actors would then no longer be seen in this form in the future. That is why I am a little surprised at the tone of the debate: why should we not, or what else, when it is the other way around, have been concerned by Mr Filatov's concern that these current actors will be able to act in the future? That is why, Mr President, I think it is very important that the speeches have also been made here, that we now have to listen with a sensitive ear to the greetings that come from the organisations, from the municipalities and from others, and not from the fact that we are putting the baby with the bathwater as a whole. And in general, Mr President, at this end I would just like to say that there is a great deal of concern about achieving this objective of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u19	Madam President! I am sure that people from this House, Mr Sato and Mr Filatov, have been consulted on these matters, and there is also the former Minister of Labour, Mr Ihalainen, and Mr Jaskari has worked hard on these matters. Surely it is that we now need open-mindedness and the courage to look for these ways in which as many long-term unemployed as possible can get away with the job and thus find employment. There is certainly no need or need for confrontation here either, and it is good to take these concerns seriously in committee. At the moment, we are creating new jobs in the country at a good pace, both in the car industry, in ports and in the forestry industry. In many areas, there will soon be a need for more skilled labour, and I believe that there will hopefully also be work for many of these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u20	Madam President! The best thing about this experiment is that municipalities are still a very central player. And in view of the municipal employment experiment in force during the last term of government, which ended in 2015, excellent results were achieved there precisely because of the fact that these multiprofessional teams were assembled and that the situation of each unemployed person was looked at in detail. At municipal level, it was possible to involve these third-sector actors and then companies, and in this way, as well as tailoring people to the employment path, because it is quite true that we really do not have the same unemployed people, but that there are those who quickly push back into the labour market, those who need additional training, and then those who have different kinds of problems, such as social problems. In this respect, it is important that the situation of every unemployed person's life is taken into account in particular. In this context, I would have liked to send my greetings to the Minister that this legislation on social enterprises should be taken into consideration and developed during this term of government, because I believe that it would also be one part of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u21	Mr President! There has been an important debate here. I should like to add that I was at the event of a positive restructuring in Varsinais-Suomi yesterday, the rapporteur, Esko Aho, explained this situation. The situation is that there are more jobs than there are unemployed people in Varsinais-Suomi; this situation is coming up very quickly. In Lapland next year, there may be a situation where there are not enough people working as a result of the tourist boom. So this encounter with work is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u24	Mr President! As far as the narrowities of the labour market are concerned, the best way of doing this is to use labour market training, and when this vocational training reform is carried out, which will ban provinces from obtaining qualifications training, we must be careful to ensure that there are enough agile financial instruments here on the part of the state participation system, which goes into vocational training. Now it seems that there will be an annual financial pool that will be planned annually, so that even if you can study as a nonstop, it will be inevitable that in some region, such as Southwest Finland, an industry such as the shipyard industry will not be able to increase the training in this sector in the middle of the year. I wish the government parties would consider that there would be such a bigger moving batch, which would also be able to secure the fact that in certain areas there is more available for specific training than perhaps under normal circumstances, because our labour market actually moves so fast. As far as these companies are concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u25	Mr President! Just a few comments. Sometimes it just feels like you start talking about companies, that even though there are the same factors as in the third sector, knowledge disappears immediately — you see the means in that respect and you wonder that the means actually reach your goal. That does not mean at all that there is some sort of less respect for organisations, certainly not, but it has to do with this transparency, as honourable Members say. When we make clear criteria as to what to achieve, what to achieve, what kind of employment rate to achieve, what kind of customer satisfaction to achieve, it is transparency so that we can see that these contributions have produced these outputs, and then it is genuine, transparent also for those who pay for this service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u26	Mr President! Mr Heinonen listed these experts here, but I think that Minister Lindström is the best expert of all, when he has been out of work himself, and now that he is taking this legislative package forward, he will take note of what is being discussed here. I think that, at the moment, there is also quite a lot of red tape in the way of job creation for the unemployed. This system of adjusted daily allowance leaves a month and a half, even two months, without unemployment security, due to the reception of a small job, and it is extremely important to resolve this issue. With regard to the incorporation of employment services: I also think that these TYPs are important, but in company form, for example, you can arrange full-time work for part-time workers through several employers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u27	Mr President! When this debate has been heard, it certainly comes to mind that the experimental culture is good and the experiments are good but should also learn from those experiments. During the last term of the government, this experiment was carried out by municipalities, and there are excellent results from North Karelia, for example. Indeed, we in the 18% unemployment area are far from having more jobs available than the workforce. But we cannot fail to talk about this future provincial administration and the incorporation of employment services and the problems involved. Now that you're listening to this, these things don't seem to have much to do with each other. This experiment, which we are now talking about, starts from the municipal base, and I am sure we are all in favour of that, but in the provincial model all of these must be re-incorporated. What are we doing with this experiment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u28	Madam President! This government proposal in itself is consistent when the municipalities in the experiment are responsible for employment and business services in their regions, as the municipalities also pay fines for long-term unemployment. It is quite logical that the same body should then try to reduce these fines by improving the employment rate. On the other hand, when income support is essentially linked to this, I myself have not quite understood to date why this income support should be distributed to two different bodies and the other has little to do with employment. But it's been and it's gone. When there is an experiment and this government proposal represents a culture of experimentation, I think it would have been reasonably fair to have a different experiment in which employment services are given to a private company — I am not so afraid of this limited company myself — i.e. let someone else do a little experiment and then see which experiment has got a better result.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u29	Mr President! In fact, we have quite a lot of private service providers in the employment services. The majority of education comes from this side, and there are also these experiments in the employment services. And as I said earlier, these experiments show that when it comes to a hard labour market, as it were, good results have been achieved. There has not been such a difference at international level as to whether the activity, such as in the German model, is carried out by a company or by the public sector. In fact, the public there proved to be more effective, but it was probably due to the fact that there was more knowledge there when this employment agency activity had been carried out for a longer time, not because it itself was public. The essential thing is what are the personnel measurements. The core problem with our Finnish system is that we always think that you can get a Mercedes at the price of Lada. We are aiming for an effective labour market policy in Sweden and Denmark, but we are not prepared to resource the staff that would do that tailor-made, personalised service work that takes into account human needs. In comparison, for example, between Denmark and Finland: there are 14 people in Denmark per 1 labour force official, over 280 in Finland. Maybe this is the big difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u30	Mr President! Mr Turunen raised an important point in his previous speech, that this government is seeking the dismantling of bureaucracy and the dismantling of incentive traps, because they are also one of the reasons, they affect people's everyday lives. They cannot count these things very accurately in many cases. They asked why this kind of municipal model in the middle, before the province, was even tried. I have given myself the impression that this experiment will provide experience with the coordination of services and will provide more local services, experience and customer feedback, and this can be used in the province. However, it is recalled that we obviously agree that this experiment is welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u31	Madam President! There have been very good speeches here. On page 7, in the section "Rehabilitative work activities", it says: "The municipality can organise the rehabilitative work itself, by concluding a written agreement to organise it with another municipality or association of municipalities or a registered association, a registered foundation, a state agency or a registered religious community." This is the best possible model in the current state of affairs for employing the long-term unemployed in the third sector, and this part should also be maintained in this reform. President! We've been talking about what it's like to be unemployed. I came to this job from the unemployment card and I'm going back to the unemployment card when I'm out of work here. I understand what that means when a municipality offers support work. I am involved in a number of organisations that provide jobs for those who come from prison in a very short period of time, from different difficult circumstances, and we employ dozens of people. This is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u32	Mr President! It is great that the opposition has also appreciated this bill. It is quite true that there is a common concern about the long-term unemployed, the unemployed in general, and new means are needed to bring the situation down. The fact that these experiments can also be continued over the last period in the field of employment services is very important. And there are also regional variations. Lapland may have a 20 % variation in labour demand in the year by season and season. It is therefore important for municipalities, regions and regions to be able to decide more on these issues. There has also been talk here about the draft Growth Services Act and about the fact that organisations and foundations should also be incorporated into the growth services market if they want to operate in the growth services market. That's not true. If foundations and organisations operate there, they do not have to enter into a business in order to provide growth services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u33	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on how important it is to know about the experiments already carried out in this country, which have had good and perhaps less good experience of what works and what does not work for the employment services. For example, in an experimental way in my own municipality, private employment services were used for the employment of the unemployed, and one company, for example, contacted 500 people, managed to employ one and sent a good bill to the city for EUR 35,000. So there are experiments and experiences like this in this country. But with regard to the obligation to include public employment services in the context of this package of growth services, concerns have also arisen about the workshop activities of young people and what their fate will be in this future package of growth services, which is a very good example of how not to scrap effective operating models, such as those targeted at young unemployed people, but rather to consolidate and further develop them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u34	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Turunen mentioned red tape as one of the means of facilitating employment. He's absolutely right. Let me give you an example of yesterday's meeting of the municipal board of Ilomants. We were dealing with the Leader projects in Vaara-Karjala. The funding of the projects will stand because Saint Byrokratius has struck. The hyrrä program doesn't play, and there's no payment. Of course, the municipality went to the aid and provided temporary funding for the project to be completed. This is an example of how, suddenly, an innocent flower of bureaucracy prevents effective action. The same meeting dealt with a couple of business projects. They are also standing because of the lack of authorisation, the fact that things are standing, people are not getting jobs, investments are not being made. If we in this country one day want to promote employment, the removal of such bureaucratic, pointless things is a matter number one. And then thing number two is to get people who do not work on the free market forward. This is how we get ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u35	Mr President! There has also been a lot of talk here today about volunteering, which is very valuable and very good and useful work for the people who do it. There is one small problem, however, and that is that it is free work. One thing that we should get right in this overall package is definitely this pay subsidy: the third sector wage subsidy must be made to work in such a way that work can be done there. And I find all such talk quite shocking that if there is any free work, poor work, or voluntary work, and there is a pea guide, it should be reported to the tax authorities. I do not think that anyone should even have such a dream that this should ever happen. Such a peasant mind in this hand and heart will surely do much good, including for the unemployed, especially the unemployed, and also for the time when that work is not found.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u36	Then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u37	Madam President! It is a very good and important thing that this type of experiment is being carried out. These experiments have been very typical in this particular government. There are, of course, important reasons for the experiments, and one of the most important in this case is — a little bit the same as what is at stake in the social welfare reform — that the current one is not working properly. There are many different things that are needed, different models, different ways of doing things. One of these is a very active employment agency, because there are currently many unemployed but also many job vacancies. However, it must be borne in mind that this is an experiment, because we are doing the whole reform of growth services, and that is a very clear guideline for a clear differentiation between the organisers and then the actual growth service producers. This must not mean that this experiment will continue as the third route will be permanent. However, I understand the very important role that must be played by organisations and, above all, by voluntary work in the future, and that it will not be confused with these projects, which is otherwise what we intend to do in growth services. On the other hand, this experiment is quite effective, that at the moment there is still a situation where municipalities are the ones who pay a fine if there are unemployed people in the municipality. After all, it has been a rather difficult situation when others mainly operate the employment service and then a third party, at the moment the municipalities, pays a fine for it, even though they themselves have not been able to operate very actively. Now it is also good to try having power and responsibility in the same place. And I think that there is also the point of view when we transfer growth services to the provinces, then we also have to remove the issue of fines from the municipalities. It has also been quite interesting in this debate that there is always talk of ideology, that when there is a company it is already an ideological matter, and when there is no company it is also an ideological matter, when it really should only be a means of doing good work, a way of doing good work, but also perhaps the easiest way to detect bad work if it is done because it is the most transparent course of action if you look at the results. A further comment to Mr Filatov on the Danish model, when it was said how much more resources are being used by the Danish model. That is true, but the other side also speaks for the Danish model. There is a much more liberal labour market, where a lot is actually happening in the labour market. Many jobs are running out, but even more jobs are coming because it is a much more flexible labour market. People see that if a job ends, there are also many opportunities in sight. This other side should also be taken into account when carrying out these growth service projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u38	Madam President! In retrospect, I asked the head of the employment office who had retired about my local municipality. He asked the counter question: 'Assess, Eero, how many out of 100 are we able to employ through the Employment Office?' I said 10 percent. He said, "I wish things were so good." His long-term experience was that one out of 100 people have been employed by the Employment Office and three others have been able to find work, i.e. 4 per cent, as a result of their own activities. It could be said that perhaps the current employment office is more of a card register than an actual employment office. Less than ten years ago, I asked the then Minister for Labour whether it could be required — when the law says that the labour market should be available — that the profile of the person concerned should be in the digitalized services maintained by the Employment Office so that employers could look. I was surprised when he replied that they would get a job. I said, "Isn't that the point of getting a job?" I wasn't going to stay on my feet, but ever since then, I've been wondering about this bad track record, an exceptionally bad one. From an employer’s point of view, I know from experience that there are many jobs that, when you find the right job, it becomes a reality, but it is difficult to find it. Special skills, such as language skills or some IT coding skills or knowledge of the industry, or all of these combined, are often required. But if all the labour force were visible — including those who are not unemployed but who are perhaps looking for a new branch for their own career — then the employer could also encode the need in advance and put it on top of the monitoring: one who speaks Chinese, knows the food industry and is ready to travel is the driving licence et cetera. In other words, such a profile could be placed and then triggered when such a person appears in the digitalized register. These jobs would then be created and the resource that exists would be better exploited. In many areas today, there will no longer be a job even in public search, because there are so many applicants that it will only be pain to pass through them when not everyone can offer them the job. Sometimes there are hundreds of people applying for one job, and if they are still active in the same field, then the employer will not disclose these tasks. But this measure, the digitalized register, would make the market run. The problem of the long-term unemployed at this municipal level has been realised because, as has been said here, responsibility is shifting to municipalities. But I have been thinking about the fact that when there are workers in the private sector who sell and rent labour, would the state not be able to take this risk by setting up a state employment company that rents labour, leaving these risks to the employer, as is the case with the current temporary work situation, and not the temporary work company that is employed? This would also mean that the threshold for taking temporary workers into small companies would certainly be lowered and would be a tool to deal with this issue. Then there will probably be a number of people, especially the long-term unemployed, whose work input is not at a level that the employer can accept. It might be said that marginal costs outweigh the marginal benefits, in which case, first and foremost, people risk losing a job if one day they have. In some countries the obligation to take up work has been assumed, but in Finland, when there is general commitment, this staff, which is suitable for the sector, is not able to perform the job that even the level of earnings can be in accordance with the TES. [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u39	Madam President! I think the government proposal under discussion is very appropriate at this time, and Juha It is the Sipilä government that has set in motion the attempt, through various key projects and experiments, to create additional activity in the labour market, among other things, and thereby to genuinely employ people. This is an experiment. It is true that this trial period is very short, but what will prevent, once experience has been gained, from making the next experiment? It would be important to note, however, that a mere experiment does not help at all yet, but the lessons learned from it must then be taken into account in the future and an active effort must be made to create new jobs. Today, municipalities are genuinely more and more responsible for their citizens, their inhabitants. That is clear, and the state has been determined to explain this responsibility towards the municipalities. On the other hand, it is quite paradoxical, quite strange, that at the same time the government is increasingly withdrawing from it, that there is a great deal of intensity in the process of increasing the number of services being taken away from rural areas and the peripheral regions have suffered from this. There is such a contradiction here that I find very difficult to understand. The proportion of local government labour market support is clear that the municipality has to pay for it. It also acts as a whip and whip for municipalities in that the municipality seeks to activate the unemployed by all reasonable means possible. The municipality is responsible for its inhabitants, but it definitely needs a state as a partner. If the state withdraws from the development of rural areas — such as the transport network, the various investments — then the work of the municipality on its own is almost impossible under these circumstances. It has emerged during this debate that one of the most effective ways of creating new jobs is to dismantle red tape. It is an undeniable fact that in this country a nation of 5.5 million people has about 40 million people created bureaucracy. This is something we really need to get rid of. It makes no sense for projects to stand in the various offices on the boards of the licensing authorities or administrative courts because of pointless things. There are almost EUR 3 billion of projects standing there that would provide jobs for people. There is no need for a culture of experimentation when it comes to mobilising investment, as fortunately is now happening. We know from today's news that new jobs will be created precisely by mobilising investment. Today we are investing a great deal in the bioeconomy, renewable energy, but every project coming to rural areas is being complained about. We must genuinely get rid of this if we are to have more work. Madam President! For example, we have a Leader project. I have just mentioned in my previous speech, in my reply, for example the promotion of Leader projects in regions, rural areas, small important projects. They're also standing behind it when this Hyrrä computer program doesn't work. It is inconceivable that one computer program does not work in a country which, however, considers itself to be one of Europe's leading countries in the development of computer and various programmes. After all, this is an incomprehensible thing that this kind of thing is the brake on our development at the moment. The same applies to various other state investment aids, including fibre optic networks in this country. There is a huge amount of money standing there for it when payments have not been made. It sometimes comes to mind whether it is a computer program or a deliberate or, if it is said, a misdemeanour that delays these projects. That's the kind of thing that's crossed my mind. I hope I'm wrong. The municipality is a very important partner in the future and specifically in the direction of the state, in the sense of getting people to work. The government must shoulder its responsibilities in such a way that investments are made and permits can be obtained quickly, but the municipality is a good partner because it knows the local conditions. Companies are very important partners in municipalities for every single municipality. In my municipality of Ilomants, there has been very fruitful cooperation with various companies and success. Yesterday, too, it was precisely from the point of view of involving small businesses that new jobs will be created: the fact that a company has a job for two or three people is extremely valuable because it is likely to be the potential growth company that will offer more work in the next year or two years. Getting this path started is one of the important tasks of this house. The government must not withdraw its responsibility. As I said just now, it is up to the government to keep the whole of Finland inhabited and precisely so that, at the promised time of renewable energy and natural resources, the government must be open-minded in supporting these projects so that we can get things moving and, above all, the export industry to take the lead, because if we do not do this work properly, then we will be in a situation where we are currently living, where the population is concentrated here south and then we will pay the housing subsidies of 2.3 billion a year and the growth is booming. I believe that the amount could be reduced by allowing opportunities for other areas to develop and grow and jobs to be created elsewhere. Such legislative proposals would then gradually become unnecessary when there were genuinely market jobs, and the municipalities would also be able to create jobs in the same context, which would also be able to employ those who might not be able to manage in the best possible way in the open labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u40	Mr President, listeners! A good debate took place, and a little more time and time again I am putting together common ideas and my own ideas on the subject. After all, this is the government's objective and the common aim of all of us to improve our employment and, in particular, to improve the situation of the long-term unemployed and young people. After all, there has now been an improvement in these figures, which I am sure we will all be pleased about, and I am sure the opposition will be able to agree with that. No one can help but be glad that the direction is the right one. This experiment was also supported by the rapporteur Loula, and this is very good in the sense that there will be individual services, looking for an individual one-stop service model, because what suits one does not always suit everyone, everyone understands it. In short, there were justifiable concerns about the future. Regional reform is a major issue and the Act on Growth Services has been the subject of statements. I know that Minister Lindström listens to things carefully. Surely everyone is aware of his attitude and concern about unemployment and the improvement of employment. He's going to be very careful about everything. The results and the goals. It is always the case that the glass is half full or half empty. Now that employment is improving, even better than forecast, and the government has set a target of 72%, the opposition has wanted to put it so that we cannot get there, it cannot, it will not be fulfilled. [Riitta Myller’s interlude] However, to come back to this point, what I was very pleased about is that there was very individual service guidance here, in Section 5. The first meeting should be in two weeks, and then we meet every three months, as we do now. It specifically supports that individuality. I looked at the comments of the authors of the opinions. So, in general terms, this was welcomed, and here, too, the draft law has been welcomed. I understand that criticism has mainly focused on duration and then on the Growth Services Act, which is of course not on the table here. One thing we were talking about here today — someone there exclaimed that this was not true — is the shortage of labour. Yes, there is. We all know that there is a problem of confrontation. Was it about a week ago when Mr Filatov and Minister Lindström were on a programme involving a person from a private employment agency producer. He said that, among other things, there was a shortage of labour in the restaurant sector. So, yes, we do have that problem of encounters. As I looked at the objectives of the bill here, it has also been intended to look for different approaches to improving the skills and professional capacity of the unemployed in order to better match the skills of the worker to the needs of the labour market. It is indeed intended to seek that, hey, now this job has left you, with what measures you could take to apply for that other job, where there is a shortage of labour, for example. That's just the way it is, you know, you've got a lot of things going on and you've got a lot of life going on. When I was young, there were no microwave ovens or cell phones then, and there has been a new kind of industry. All old, traditional jobs may gradually disappear and be replaced. A person may be very confused and then need very much individual help. Mr Turunen and Mr Hoskonen spoke of bureaucracy and incentive traps. It is important because each family always has to think about the bills of the next month, and if there are temporary losses of support or new applications, it is quite clear that it affects the willingness and ability of a person — it is not just a question of wanting to count every euro so that there is enough food for the family — it is perfectly understandable. It is up to us as legislators to find ways of getting it in a smooth way so that people can move back to work and so, that is to say, that goal and that concern have been fully understood.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u41	Mr President! I agree that this law on municipal experimentation is well-intentioned. I doubt that anyone will be able to disagree on the matter as a whole because, yes, the deepest problem in our society is within unemployment, and that is long-term unemployment. Fortunately, the little one has gone to a fold too, and that is what we are delighted about. But more than 100,000 people are still unemployed for more than a year, and within it the number of those who have been unemployed for two years is growing. So people are falling into unemployment, but it's not easy to get out of it. And for young people too, there are signs that it is beginning to be prolonged, while youth unemployment in general is short-term. There is another problem here, which is also related to age, which has been mentioned a great deal here. When the average duration of unemployment may now be around the 50-week cycle, a little over, if a person is plus 55 years old, the average duration of unemployment is over 90 weeks, the fact that he can get to the next job also tells something: for people of the best working age, if they become unemployed, it will be quite long to get to the next job. And we all remember these indicators that reducing one week of unemployment is 26 million good for public finances. In this respect, this experiment with municipalities last season was important because it produced good results — but it involved EUR 20 million per year of funding. Its idea was for municipalities, the third sector and organisations to cooperate well there on a local and regional basis and to achieve good results. It's a good tradition to continue. This involves the establishment of this TYP system, i.e. low-threshold services with the opening of a single door: TE-palvelut, municipal social services and Kela-palvelut. I do not quite understand why this concept needs to be changed or dismantled. It would be very important for it to be preserved. And the same was added to the fact that the criteria for pay subsidies were changed. The higher the rate of unemployment, the more long-term unemployment, the higher the rate. For people over 60, it became permanent. Efforts were made to find ways to help with this prolonged unemployment. So this experiment in itself is necessary, but this regional reform is accompanied by this timetable. After all, apart from the fact that there will be a common pot of money in the provinces, the TE services will be privatised, not just consolidated. I think it's a big mistake. The role of the public sector should also be important in employment services; partners from the private sector are needed, and it has also been tried during the last government term. In a way, we should find something new. This will also lead to a change in the role of municipalities: the province will respond. We also believe that municipalities should continue to play a key role in the management of long-term unemployment and youth unemployment because they have access to these services and, for young people, they have education and training activities, workshops, outreach youth work — it would be quite natural for municipalities to have a central responsibility for the future employment of young people. And now to these resources. However, there is quite a lot to be said about funding and its adequacy, as overall employment appropriations have been reduced, not increased. The 25 million that now came are necessary, but it has nothing to do with the total. Sweden has four times the wage subsidy compared to Finland — four times the amount — and already has the good resources to do the work that is needed here. So this is an important reform in itself, but this leads us to believe that the municipalities have a central responsibility for long-term unemployment, as is the case with this municipal experiment, not to be realised, but to be transferred to the provinces and this whole concept changes, no longer has that basic responsibility. In a way, this contradiction, how to resolve this, still leaves me in the air. I hope that the role of municipalities in the new administrative structure will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u42	Madam President! Mr Ihalainen said a lot of words on this point. The experiment itself is good, and the government is on the right track here. But if I look at it from the point of view of regional development and from the point of view of small municipalities, which are in the periphery of the province, then this government and the previous parliaments have very severely reduced the resources of these periphery regions: we no longer have the employment offices that Mr Lehti talked about there. At the time, the Employment Office gave guidance to the unemployed, provided recruitment services to companies and then brought training together with the local economic development offices, i.e. the head of the Employment Office played such a role as a regional developer, together with the municipal actors and trainers. It was very strong, it was a discussion area where the situation of the whole municipality was considered. And always, if there was a big order or new business, one could find a new workforce and know those people. But after this, when it has gone to the county centers, it has digitized, it is faceless of this activity. We only have two employees in Mänttä-Vilppula, a secretary. The duties of the Employment Office have been transferred to municipalities, and we have eight employees there in municipal employment services. So in that sense, the experiment is good if this can be carried forward and the role of the municipality is being tested and strengthened. Why not, then, the local economic development offices could also accept the whole issue of employment management in the smaller municipalities — and they are actually forced to do so. The dismantling of bureaucracy is a good thing. Then, Mr President, one point is this role of associations at the moment. It's very important. If it wasn't for the third sector, we wouldn't be able to do this either. I see that, for example, this reduction in the funding and resources of pay subsidies and work trials will then also jeopardise the activities of these associations at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u43	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Ihalainen gave an excellent speech on the problems associated with this whole government employment policy. So the criticism here is not this bill or this experiment that is now being carried out, but precisely the contradiction that is inherent in these other plans: an experiment is now being carried out on the basis of a strengthening of the role of the municipality. It responds to the need and wishes expressed by the municipalities. But then this whole Government Act on Growth Services means that responsibility is specifically transferred from municipalities to regions, and also that employment services are then privatised and public services have to be incorporated. I do not understand why, for example, young people should be involved in workshops, where this draft would lead, the draft Growth Services Act, if compared to a situation in which municipalities are responsible for youth workshops and have been able to cooperate seamlessly and well with, for example, municipal detective youth work and also vocational educational institutions. In other words, these government plans, in my opinion and with reference to Mr Jaskar's earlier speech, include a very strong ideological stance. The second contradiction relates to this bureaucracy. In other words, at the same time as the representatives of the government parties are talking about the importance of cutting red tape from the point of view of the unemployed, the government's plans for a job-seeking obligation, a mechanical one, which simply assumes that a certain number of applications must be made, this active model, are totally at odds with these speeches, because that means that the amount of red tape for the unemployed will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u44	Madam President! I have worked for over a decade on the board of the company, which is a temporary employer, and there have also been experiments. Depending on how the experiment has been carried out, the results are quite good. I'd like to say that this is an alleged... I do believe that in Finland the Employment Office has one employee per 200 job seekers and in Sweden it is perhaps one-tenth of this. If this is compared to a class size of between 20 and 25 students, then it seems to be a rather poor efficiency. From a social point of view, if it is able to employ one person through the employment office or otherwise, it will also be out of the cost of unemployment and will immediately generate tax revenue and other earnings linked to the wage. It seems that this calculation should be done once more and see where it is worth investing in and where it is worth saving and at which point it can be used to exploit digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u45	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 6/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u46	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with a law on the organisation of the market in agricultural products. Many people will certainly wonder what kind of agricultural market organisation law, but this is actually a very familiar school milk subsidy, which has now been extended to so-called school fruit aid, but when these European words do not of course mean the same in Finland, then we have cleverly extended it to cover domestic vegetables, i.e. vegetables, root vegetables and berries. This discussion was very rewarding in committee and was the subject of much debate. We agree that this bill is a good one. It is good that school milk aid has now been extended to the vegetable side. The amounts are as follows: EUR 3.8 million of EU-funded school milk aid is available on the milk side and is specifically directed to organic farming. This time it is not the case that the normal aid has been abolished, but the organic aid is 27 cents — this will certainly be laid down in the regulation even later — and for normal milk this aid will be 9 cents. In addition to this 3.8 million, EUR 1.6 million will then be available for fruit and vegetables distribution. We have in Finland that we are a model country for school meals, where people from the rest of the world and Europe will also be watching the organisation of school meals. That is why this percentage of fruit may not have been considered so significant, more so as it was more necessary to have a national share in it. But now that we were able to target it specifically to increase the use of domestic vegetables and we do not need our own financial contribution and, because of the pressure from the committee, we now try to make this distribution aid as economically and efficiently as possible and without unnecessary bureaucracy, we also wanted this support for vegetables and vegetables. It very well balances our school meals, for surely the use of our vegetables in Finland is not too much. Men — most of whom are here in the hall — use 250 grams of vegetables every day in Finland, at least a little more women, 330 grams. Yes, this use of vegetables is such that it is already learned at school and even under it. It is therefore a good thing that this too is encouraged. In addition to funding the municipal economy, of course, when the municipalities do these food supplies, there is also such an educational campaign for these good things, for the supply of domestic protein and for the supply of vegetables. The committee also had some concerns. Although this organic policy is an old, long-term policy — we want to increase the proportion of organic farming per 20% in Finland — and we have concerns that the share of organic arable farming is much higher than that of the actual products, we would not want it to be at least so that consumption would go away from the domestic market and, for example, switch to organic production elsewhere. That is why we want the purchase of these vegetables, for example, to be highly seasonal and we would like to see a decision on organic greenhouse production as soon as possible within the EU. In fact, there is a type of problem that our production method, which is decoupled from the ground, is not in the EU's liking, and we are still at risk of not being able to produce this method of production in the future. At a time when we might be able to make investments in this legislation too, they may not be dared to do so. With these greetings, we agree with the committee that the draft law is very good and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u47	Madam President! It is a great thing that organic farming is raised up and that the organic market can also be brought forward through the support for school milk and fruit and vegetables. But, of course, when it comes to aid, I have to be sure that it is true that this aid does not fall into the margins of trade, but will also leave something for the farmer and will also improve the organic market. This hevi policy itself is quite good, as the committee has pointed out here, that we are investing in high-quality domestic products and that we are also looking at seasonal products, local products and also transport on the domestic side of the economy. This is very strongly linked, as is the Committee's point of view in this report, to the public procurement law, which has just been reformed. I would see that this would also boost the municipalities and the local public sector, so that more local people would be used, because in the Public Procurement Act we can use and negotiate local products, taking into account employment, the environment and other aspects, through innovation. This legislation is a very successful extension to it, and it is also an extension of what has previously been in government institutions, that more domestic products should be used, and not organic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u48	Mr President! A couple of comments on this unanimous report by the EU Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the issue of school milk and school fruit support. The report submitted to the committee has shown that Finnish consumption of vegetables and fruit is much lower than that which is desirable for health. That is why the committee is very pleased that aid for school distribution is now being launched, covering not only traditional school milk but also the distribution of vegetables, fruit and berries. Under Minister Tiilikainen's proposal, support for school milk will now also be emphasised for organic milk. This decision is based on a Government Resolution on the promotion of sustainable environmental and energy solutions in public procurement. This guideline recommends 20% organic food by 2020, i.e. 20% organic food provided in public kitchens by 2020. It has therefore been considered logical that the use of organic matter should also be promoted within the framework of the school distribution system. The levels of support are to be laid down by Government decree. In this case, further product-specific effects can also be assessed and organic and conventional co-existence can be assessed. Mr President! As far as fruit is concerned, the Committee draws attention to the fact that Finns already eat the second most sweet bananas in the world, for example, so there is no point in increasing their consumption or consumption of other imported fruit. The Committee therefore stresses that support measures should be targeted at high-quality domestic vegetables,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u53	Madam President! Mr Kalmari presented this unanimous report very well, but I would like to emphasise a few points. The expert hearing showed that Finnish consumption of vegetables and fruits is much lower than that which is desirable for health — as Mr Kalmari stressed in his presentation. It has therefore been considered necessary that the so-called school fruit programme of the European Union should also be introduced in Finland. It is therefore very good that aid for school distribution is now being launched, covering not only school milk but also the distribution of vegetables, fruit and berries. The Committee also stresses that the Finnish school system should promote the use of local products. Then it must also be pointed out that we in the committee for a long time, of course, discussed the fact that, now that this aid for organic milk is considerably increased, it will then be the result that, in addition to the limited amount of aid, a strong allocation of organic products may lead to a lower quantity of products being distributed than in the past. Finns already eat a lot of imported fruit. It is therefore important that aid for the distribution of schools should be targeted in particular at domestic berries, fruit and vegetables. Seasonal thinking is also a good starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u54	Madam President! A word of thanks also for the good, succinct presentation by the chairman of the committee on this subject. A few comments, however. While this is a step forward for the creature, we must also stick to the realities that this can produce. And it has to be said now that organic production, which is perhaps preferable from an environmental point of view, is no more strange in terms of its nutritional value than normally produced food. If there is anything wrong with this, it is now draining away the availability of milk products for school meals. So, with only liquid dairy products, i.e. buttermilk and milk, this sort of narrows these possibilities so that we can have cheeses and yogurts in this area, because even in local production, more of them are produced. In other words, this narrows the range of products, and when there are organic milk production plants in Finland, could you say quite little, this kind of regionally distorts the position of milk producers in different production directions and regions, especially dairy farmers. What is good is, as has already been pointed out in many of these speeches, that these seasonal products are hopefully domestic: this directive does not in any way oblige it, but in the correct interpretation of the new procurement law, as Mr Pirttilatti pointed out, we will be able to direct if we take a carbon footprint as a criterion, for example, how the municipalities take these decisions. However, the fact that organic products are transferred to such a strong and guiding way means that if you want to have a current level of school meals and move to organic farming, the cost of municipalities will increase in some respects, i.e. the paying man is the municipality and the local residents. But perhaps we want, and the municipalities want to, despite the fact that organic food is being promoted, yet school food must be at this level as it is now — and I do think that it should be much more developed, not just kept at this level. Madam President! The good of the reform is that this is now diversifying the opportunities for our school meals when berries and vegetables arrive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u55	Madam President! The Government’s aim is to promote organic and local food, and this government’s proposal also supports it. On one point of the report, the committee stressed the need to promote the role of local and regional products in this distribution chain, which relates to schools. And we must remember the newly introduced procurement law, which also promoted the opportunities for small producers and businesses in the field of competition, which is how these government policies will then begin to appear in the legislation. This last point, too, is an example of how these strategic policies of the government are formed into legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u56	Mr President! This proposal was well presented by the chairman of the committee, i.e. to promote domestic food production and domesticism in schools as well. School meals promote the health, working efficiency and good manners of the student and student. Eighty-five per cent of schoolchildren eat school food daily, but only 65 per cent of 13 to 17-year-olds, i.e. one third of them do not eat hot food at all but replace it with sweets. It is vital that the school eats clean, domestic food. In this case, organic production is supported, but it must be remembered that the usual food production from the fields to the tables is also, in principle, organic, because it is very clean. Food for schoolchildren on all sides must be supported and must be free food in the future. The fact that we have domestic production is absolutely essential. We have also read recently that there has been a great deal of criticism about it. What is it worth producing in Finland if food production is not worthwhile? It must be taken into account that security of supply is important, and that we receive good domestic production, and that so many middlemen also make a living when they are able to produce food in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u57	President! This government proposal is a good implementation of the ideology that is produced and consumed nearby, just as the government has hoped. In fact, here I would like to see small municipalities and even larger ones making those procurement decisions in such a way as to favour those small local producers in those procurement decisions, so that all good things can be reflected in the region of home. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u58	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong it, but now we have to go back to this government proposal and this report. This is where the provisions of the reformed aid for school milk are presented, including the use of fruit and vegetables. This does not fund the whole course of school meals, but this is where the EU's school milk aid is directed, as a general rule, at organic products and, in addition, future fruit and vegetables. That now, however, this broader reform of school meals is not more than just this small part.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u59	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 10 May 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u60	Mr President! Today we are still discussing the EU CSD Regulation. It should be noted that this Regulation has been in force since 2014 and goes beyond national law. It is also noted that there is an exemption clause in this Regulation, Article 38, Chapter 5, which means that, in the absence of a management register for nation states in the past, the Regulation does not require the introduction of a management register. There has been no management register in Finland, and there will be no management register in Finland. Mr President! But let's go to the epistle of the day. Today, I have left one effort in the central office for an amendment and one new effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u65	The speakers will take the floor from Mr Andersson, Mr Ihalainen, Mr Skinner and Mr Mölsä, and then, if necessary, from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u66	Mr President! We will return to the twilight register again, fortunately this time in the light of day. Mr Kulmala has, in my opinion, crystallized the problem of this proposal in saying that 'I have not been elected to Parliament to promote crime but to prevent it from being committed'. That is, after all, what this is all about. In Finland, we could, if we wanted, adhere to the model of direct ownership, but the government, through this loophole, wants to abandon this model, which would mean facilitating tax evasion, corruption and insider relations. As we are well aware, this bill was before the Committee on Economic Affairs for a year. The EU Securities Regulation behind the reform and the EU Commission's comments on its application to Finland have been the same all along. The only thing that has changed this year is the position of the Finns of Peru. In December, as Chairman of the Turunen Economic Committee, he strongly announced that Finland does not need to change our legislation and accept the hiding of ownership in the management register abroad, but that Finland can continue to demand direct ownership from Finns. If Finland allows management registration through foreign countries, it makes it difficult to solve insider dealings and other financial crimes and reduces tax certainty and fairness," said Mr Turunen at the time. In fact, the position of Turkuen and the leadership of the Finns themselves was reversed under the spending limits bar. Since then, we have heard that previous interpretations were wrong, that the EU regulation requires Finland to make it possible to register vaguely. I would remind you, however, that no new guidance for application or interpretation came from the EU at this time. Norway, too, still considers that the Securities Regulation allows for the model of direct ownership they require, so no new information has fallen from that direction either. Mr President! In the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the government parties themselves recognised that there are serious problems with the draft law as a result of the lack of transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u75	Mr President! Surely it was a good thing that this matter was postponed from that night’s dark hours to this day. The further this preparation has been made, the more messy this will start to look. Ponsia Appears Day after Day
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u78	Mr President! As Mr Ihalainen said, we members of the Committee on Economic Affairs were not given much time to prepare for this issue, and I was on the way to the Constitutional Committee in the United States at the time. Of course, we were pleased that you, Minister, were in contact with Mr Häkkänen, whom you called Minister at the time — congratulations once again on that. But with regard to these statements: Thank you for the first attempt at unlisted companies. That is a good thing and should in fact have been more clearly involved from the outset. So we have to support it. But then this second proposal, Mr President, is, in fact, almost the same as the previous second step. I don't see much difference in content myself. What does this statement actually contain? How should this be read, and what should one once again find between its lines? So, what have you really thought about doing on this basis, Mr. Government? Is this the famous owner's register we've been talking about? If so, when will it be done, how will it be done, and what will it all cost?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u81	Mr President! "Administrative registry is a reason to maintain," writes Heinämäki in the Aamulehti opinion board on 10 May. At the same time, he goes on to say, "Now, in Alexander Stubb's time, The buried management register law has once again been plunged to the surface." There is no further misunderstanding about this. That is why we need to review what is going on. [Heckling — Laughing]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u88	As previously agreed, there can be a small debate in this context, and I would now ask those Members who wish to use the reply to speak, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u89	Mr President! It is not very honest to suggest that Finland should not adapt its own legislation to EU law. We are a member of the EU, to which the Social Democratic Party also led us. But I am concerned about the tone of the debate that the opposition is making. I get the impression that a Finnish investor, a Finnish entrepreneur, is trying to present it as if it were a vague entrepreneur, a shady investor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u92	Mr President! This debate also shows that it was very good that the opposition was able to move this government out of the night's twilight, you can say, right here to deal with Turmiolan Tommi. In fact, even after that, as the chairman of the committee acknowledged just now, there were still mistakes in these efforts that had to be corrected here today. This is at least the result of the fact that the opposition was awake at the time when the government tried, in the twilight of the evening, to extrude through this debate. But, Mr President, the problem here is that the Finns, in particular, are adopting a law that gives more tools to those who want to avoid laws and want to avoid taxes. [Kaj Turuse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u93	Congressman Lindtman, next time we'll be holding onto that minute. Now you had 1 minute, 32 seconds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u94	Mr. Speaker! Ministers Urpilainen and Rinne negotiated this EU regulation, which as such binds us, and it is bad for Finland because it allows this data to be encrypted. Fortunately, in the European Parliament, the Finns negotiated a deviation which even the Social Democratic Ministers did not want to negotiate. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u95	Mr President! While I have been following this debate for a long time, admittedly the opposition's point of view in the argument that the government would favour tax evaders and the government would like to hide some ownership of something behind... That the government would want that, isn't that an incredible claim to this kind of pattern? I can't believe what you're saying. You can really ask: why do you even say this? We are trying to find a low tax level and a broad tax base, and then you are thinking about this kind of perspective. We are simply implementing the Securities Regulation as well as we can, in the interests of transparency, do. An interesting comment was — if you have read Juhana Vartiainen’s blog — when she compared Sweden and Finland: in Sweden the tax authorities said that they could get information, it only makes it a little more difficult. Financial crime officials also said that they could solve it. They're thinking about corporate capital management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u96	Mr President! The discussion around the management register is in itself so incomprehensible that separate rhetoric is no longer needed. I'll get right to the point. As we all know, the Government's proposal does not directly allow the use of the management register in Finland. However, it makes it possible to hide assets through management registration for Finnish investors in foreign CSDs. Since the Government's proposal changes the status quo, Finland's exemption to the EU regulation no longer protects Finland's direct and open ownership system. One complaint to the EU Court of Justice in practice is sufficient that, after this proposal, management registration is considered to be permitted also in Finland. I would like to ask the Minister: why is Finland going backwards when the rest of Europe is moving towards the Finnish system, and why is there no well-meaning wish drive in the law itself?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u98	Mr President! Like the previous speaker here, words like 'hidden' are used here. We must now remember that from the beginning of this year a directive has entered into force which obliges all financial institutions to identify their customers. I'm sure everyone knows that when you've been to the bank, you've been asked a lot of questions. Banks, including CSDs and everyone else, have to identify their customers. There's nothing to hide. And then here are used such words as "promoting crimes". Representative Andersson spoke here that now this bill promotes crime, the management register promotes crime. Are you saying, Andersson, that all Germans are criminals? There is no possibility of conservation other than a management register, it is the only one, there is no system of direct ownership at all. Are all Germans criminals? And are half the Swedes criminals? There is a management register or a system of direct ownership, is half of the Swedish criminals in your opinion?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u99	Mr President! I've never said that. But are you, Mr Turunen, saying that this loophole, which is now included in this motion, does not make it easier to commit crimes and hide ownership for those who want it? I would now urge representatives of the government parties to listen, for example, to the concerns expressed by the Finnish police and the authorities as to where this proposal you are advocating will lead in practice. And let me repeat once again: It's been a year for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u102	Well, I will intervene now, Mr Andersson. We have agreed on the rules of the game, and they will be adhered to. And so, let me put it this way, it is bad manners to intervene, but I am obliged to do so if you continue for over a minute. And I will continue to ask both Mr Andersson and Mr Turunen to use the compliments of the representatives: we tend to call them names and not call them by name in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u103	Mr President! I think Dad's been found on the left side of the hall, and I think she's been sitting on that left side of the hall. In the summer of the 99 Left Alliances, it was suggested that Finland should also have the possibility to own shares through the management register. The Left Alliance would have liked to have resolved this more than 17 years ago. Direct quote, quote: "The matter must be settled during the current parliamentary term." The proposal would also have allowed Finnish investors to have access to the management register. So the Left Alliance would have wanted to solve it 17 years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u104	Mr President! Representative Heinonen has to dig up examples since 99 to find a left-wing ally, a former one today who has wanted to register in Finland. What is the latest example of a co-operative who has been pushing for permission to register in Finland? When did this happen? In 2015. It is not so long ago that this government's proposal, and the loophole in it, is also set;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u105	Mr President! Mr Turunen, you referred to the fact that new international regulations will improve access to information. I would like to remind your own committee of the opinion of the Tax Administration, which states on international access to information: 'The information available does not in any way replace existing annual declarations or any other national need for information on taxation'. So these are different questions. Your own committee has been informed that measures are still needed. Now I wonder why the ponies are trying to solve these issues. Surely all of us who have been involved in politics for a long time in one way or another know what a push is, in fact, often. The pony is easily a Band-Aid to try to patch things up that would otherwise be difficult to accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u108	Mr President! Mr Turusee indeed: There is no point in interfering with this identification of customers, since the customer of the CSD is the bank in the management registration model and not the direct shareholder. It doesn't make it safe with you. [Kaj Turuse’s interlude] But it is good to remember that the proposal by the Christian Democrats, on which Parliament is voting, is precisely that we are calling on investors and the custodians they use to declare their ownership in the public register of ownership. This is, in fact, the only way we can ensure that this information becomes public, because at the heart of this issue is not so much what the form of stock retention is, but above all transparency and information, not only information to the tax authority but also this public information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u109	Mr President! The discussion of this matter here in Parliament throughout this parliamentary term shows that, in terms of transparency and transparency, this is a terrible mess, a very poniesy mixture of words, after these last steps. There's no point in looking in the rearview mirror.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u112	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Ala-Nissilä made an unfavorable speech here and wondered a little about the way in which this whole government proposal has been dealt with. Half of the shares on the Helsinki Stock Exchange are dedicated through the management register. If the Finnish debate is transferred to Germany and France, for example, that means that there are all shady men there — the shady men are holding the Helsinki Stock Exchange up, the shady men are keeping the Finnish financial jobs up. I mean, it's kind of an unusual conversation. On the other hand, the government proposal is merciful in the sense that it gives everyone the opportunity to say anything, regardless of what is written here in the papers. We must understand that this is not a shady register or a vague bill; it is only a purely EU Member State that must comply with,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u113	Mr President! With interest I am following this debate, and I am indeed surprised that there are already almost half the strange people in Europe who dare to invest. I am myself — when it comes to the different authorities — the person who took the oath of a judge and so forth, but I do understand when it comes to twisting those things, and I am not trying to distort them. I am surprised that when the opposition is talking here about the urgency and the need to bury this issue, why do you have here in your motion for a statement that this will be returned to urgent preparation again, which is why you want it back here as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u115	Ah, Minister Orphan, from the toilet. Let's start with three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u116	Mr President! Just a few things. First of all, let's just say again that this proposal does not bring a management register to Finland, and secondly, there is no way we can get around, prevent Finns from using the management register elsewhere in Europe if the management registers are in use in that country. But with this effort, I know the state of will clearly, we are preparing a change in tax legislation which brings these holdings, which are in the foreign management register and which do not have ownership information, into the 50% advance tax, which makes it very, very unprofitable. But one thing I would like to say now is that it seems that, in this debate, we are now missing the fact that there have been a number of legislative changes in the EU which will significantly increase cooperation between international authorities, which will significantly increase the exchange of information for this year. Our authorities will receive very different information on foreign investments, dividends paid abroad and sales profits than they do today. I hope this will ease your pain, which you criticise. This will be a big change. Our tax office will receive much more information in the future than it does today. This performance doesn't change the state of being. Then there's the second thing: Tax evasion is a crime. It's a crime. We cannot by law prevent and ban criminals, crime from happening. If that were possible, we wouldn't need the police. So it is a crime, and if you catch it, you can get a maximum sentence of four years for serious tax evasion, and we will make a significant increase, as I said, in access to information for the authorities, and the criminal is most likely to be caught.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u119	Mr President! The first proposal of the Board of Directors included a domestic management register. It was buried. Now we have a proposal in which, originally without these pons, there has been a clear possibility to hide assets abroad for use in the management register, to make various insider arrangements in secret and so on. Now, then, these efforts have, as it were, improved this performance somewhat. What we Social Democrats have as a proposal now is to reinstate this matter, to take account of this directive on disclosure of shareholders' ownership and thus to build legislation into force at the same time as this whole is coming into force, so that we can reach a situation where these problems, which have been raised here in Parliament, will not become concrete. This legislation, which you are now proposing, will provide more opportunities for us to act wrongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u120	Mr President! We've been accused by the opposition that there's a jumble of ponies. My argument is that there is a confusion of different slogans and images here, what this situation in the truth is. It's very different. Last time on the Greens' side, Mr Touko Aalto said that Europe is going in a different direction than Finland. It might now be interesting to know how this Europe is going in the other direction, as already in 2014, for example, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, for example, said that everyone is required and hoped to go into the book-entry system in Europe. It just didn't come true in that respect. There is still this management register system in Europe, as you know. And I can say that, as Mr Orpo said, if you really want to hide and conceal, then you should not stay in Europe in the future when the genuine exchange of information comes. Europe is quite good, and Finland is still the best example of it when we do not even have a management register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u121	Mr President! First of all, I really must thank Mr Jaskar. A lot of progress has been made over the weekend, i.e. progress has been made, and the presentation has improved slightly. I am referring, therefore, to this status of unlisted companies, which for some reason had been obtained from someone's will. Now they want it out of there, that's good. But then to Mr Kankaanie: you spoke about why we, the members of the SDP in the Committee on Economic Affairs, have not done any more than we have done in the past year. How could we have done this when, suddenly, quite unexpectedly, it is brought to committee on a day and a half notice? How could we do that? In that sense, the whole process has been very substandard in terms of parliamentarianism. So I'm asking you, where's the triangle?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u122	Reply: Chairman of the committee, representative Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u123	Mr President! Mr Skinner here welcomed the fact that this effort has now been brought in to deal with unlisted companies, but then told us why it is now being taken away. It has been brought here today, it has been presented and it has been supported. I hope it will not be taken out of it. I refer to Mr Skinner's previous speech when he told me four things which are worth taking out on this CSD Regulation. Four things. But no, no, of course this is not how it works. We cannot pick raisins from the bundled EU regulations. If you are an EU member, then these EU member regulations must be fully implemented. And then I wonder, on the other hand, that you are disparaging these ponies: that the ponies have no meaning. Then, if these ponies are slighted, the parliament will also belittled, because the ponies always begin: "The government requires that the Government..." If such a text in the effort that the Parliament accepts is somehow disdainable, then it will be downgraded by the authority of the Parliament. And I certainly do not agree with this type of action, that the Members of Parliament in this Chamber are disparaging the authority of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u124	Mr President! Now that there is really this, could you say, the jumble of the ponies or even the jumble of the slogans, let's start now so that this feels a little bit like it when you listen to the wishes of the Finns and the will of the assembly that the snail, the snail, will show your horn whether the government register will come tomorrow? That's what this is all about. I think it's terribly difficult... At least I have not accused a Finnish entrepreneur of being a criminal here. I didn't say they were criminals. Not one German entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u125	Mr President! It is important that the regulations adopted by the European Union, which we are forced to recognise, are the right to apply as such and go beyond Finnish law at all times. Unfortunately, we don't have any chips on it. Finland has certainly been well suited to its own legislation in the form of the removal of a very large number of tax havens and many other things, such as the Spanish tax treaty, the Portuguese tax treaty, which chafed this house and have chafed like a stone on a shoe for a long time, and it has been said that tax refugees are going there and receive their pensions free of tax. Now that problem is about to go away. I am not sure whether it has already entered into force, whether it has already been approved by the other party in its Parliament, but yet those agreements have been concluded and will enter into force. So the real work to combat tax evasion has been done and with a serious face, seriously. I do not quite understand that, in the final analysis, you are always throwing stones and scraps at the wheel, that you have done wrong. Tax evasion, just as Minister Orpo said, is directly in the Criminal Code, and who is guilty of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u126	Mr President! This is a serious matter because, according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, legislative proposals must be brought in whole, in packages that take all the factors into account. Despite all that the government is saying, that how excellent this law is, here every day comes new ponies and patching-up attempts that dramatically change this entire finale. However, the starting point is, as has just been said here, that the EU is forcing and imposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u127	Mr President! We're here to suspect the importance of the ponies. Yes, they are those that the government has to bring to Parliament in its report, and then they will be dealt with, and the government will not get away with it simply by explaining it if it does not comply with Parliament's will. We have parliamentaryism at our disposal. Mr President! However, I would like to ask Mr Rinte: Why did you adopt such an EU regulation when you were responsible for allowing secret ownership in these management registers within the EU? Why? Why did you do this? Whose interests were you looking for back then? Here are two boosts that are extremely important. This 50 % advance tax, which will come, will produce taxes to the State incalculably if no information is provided. And leaving the unlisted out is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u128	Mr President! There has been a debate here about these ponies and their importance. It is good to see that this process is just a good example of what their meaning is: the ponies that were in force last week have now been corrected and those that were in force in the previous week [Heckling] Mr President! This is precisely the problem when the government has in the dark tried to crush this through without the possibility of putting this regulation into effect so that we would ensure a sufficient level of publicity, so that the authorities — the police, the prosecutor — would be adequately able to intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u129	Mr President! I shall now make a brief speech here, now that we have criticised these ponies and the number of ponies. There are four boosts here, I think four important and good boosts. But when it comes to the energy and climate strategy report, there are 10 boosts. Is it a jumble of ponies when the Social Democrats made three contributions to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u130	Reply by a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u131	Mr President! It is true that, on our initiative, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report on the strategy for energy and climate change has given rise to three more impetus in relation to the other forces. That is because they were good contributions and the whole committee is able to join them,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u133	Mr President! The problem with these ponies is actually the content of these ponies, because what emerges from these ponies is that, despite the attempts made by the people of the United States to create the impression that there is no problem here and that leaving this loophole does not lead to any kind of problems, it is clear from the content of these ponies, statements, that the government parties also see the flaws and potential problems to which this will lead if we adopt this bill in the form that has now been presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u136	Mr President! Throughout this process, the Christian Democrats have tried and tried to act realistically. Governance registration is the most common form of ownership in Europe at the moment. We contributed to the fact that we are able to bring about this Finland exception. We are now in a position to influence the fact that we are imposing an obligation on the investor to declare its ownership in the public register of ownership, because, as I have said many times, this transparency and information — not only on the tax authority, but also on the so-called public information — is at the heart of this issue. I hope that tomorrow Parliament will vote in favour of this effort by the Christian Democrats. I think it is all right that this 50% withholding has also been brought here and introduced. In particular, I welcome this first boost by Turuse, which now takes off these unlisted shares — an incomprehensible childhood, which was left behind in the report. I hope that these will improve this, but blame the government:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u137	Mr President! It seems that the social democrats have a little bit of an interest in applying for this whole thing. Representative Ihalainen here suggested that this is a subjective question: that if the efforts are good, then they are quite important and take things forward, are significant, and if they are not good for the subjective vision, then they are useless and meaningless — a very special view. On the other hand, Mr Rinne said that these efforts were somewhat as if they were improving this proposal. On the other hand, Mr Harakka said that they dramatically change the proposal. Come on, for God's sakes, decide what you think of these things. I do agree with Mr Haraka: dramatically change the proposal — for the better. Finally, as a member of the large committee, I have to say that the EU line of demarcation is worrying. Do you want to leave the EU or what do you want to do now that you have such a line that the EU regulations should not be applied here in any way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u138	Mr President! Yes, this debate shows that, you can say, the deck is a mess with its vigour with regard to the government's proposal. As Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs for the year, Mr Turunen sat on this motion, and even the claws of the opposition were unable to do so until then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u141	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski said here that he has not accused anyone of being a shadowy man, and that is indeed true, but, Mr Myllykoski, the party chairman you represent here has used on several occasions a term which, in a way, begins to classify these capital representatives behind the management register who hold the Helsinki Stock Exchange. You, Mr Andersson, have used the term 'dark record' — what kind of people are behind the Twilight Register? Can you tell me what kind of people are behind the Twilight Register? You've used the word "breathhole" to describe the management register — what kind of loophole? I'm glad you put that "pork" in front of you. In my opinion, this should be seen in the right light: what does this government's proposal contain? It includes the possibility and the right for a Finnish company to issue securities and shares in that foreign CSD, which they themselves want to choose not to have to go to monopolistic Euroclear Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I find that the passions about this issue in the debate are beginning to dry up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u143	Mr President! I am happy to respond to Mr Eestilä's arguments. This term of 'dark register', which has now been used for this proposal, relates above all to the political process that has surrounded it. After all, there have been so many strange twists. [Interjection] As far as the 'breathhole' is concerned, it refers to the fact that this proposal now under discussion, if adopted by the votes of the government parties, means that Finns will be able to use the management register through a CSD located abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u144	Mr President! Mr Andersson, I appreciate the fact that you made it clear in the speech that what you are talking about is political rhetoric. It's a good thing you're admitting it. I think that Minister Orpo has made an important point here, [Antti Lindtman’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u145	I have yet to send answers here to the representatives of Lindtman, Pirttilahti, Andersson, Parviainen and all the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u146	Mr President! We can probably go over this in those long speeches, but, for example, Rinne has consistently opposed the line of trying to hide these holdings. We do have black and white here, but here, Mr President, the government parties and Turunen said that this is as normal as it were, that there will always be new impetus from one sitting to the next. You're not getting the usual out of this trial. That is the situation with this management register so that these speeches have been heard before. In 2015, it was said that Finland is obliged to allow management registration, and after the opposition drew attention to the matter, the proposal was withdrawn. Now, again, this was taken in the dark, and again, when the opposition puts spotlights on the government, there will be corrections and corrections. The government has tried in the twilight to push this through, and whenever the lights have been turned on, the government has been like a rabbit in the headlights that have begun to make corrections to their own repairs, even earlier ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u147	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Mr Essayah for his work in the EU Parliament at that time and for his very constructive opposition work. But with regard to the rest of the opposition work, it cannot be said very constructively here that there has been a misconception of Tommia in Turmiolan — in the twilight of the evening, insider dealings are increasing, secrecy, twilight register, corruption, money laundering, tax evasion, concealment of property, illegal, criminal and so on — that is, very, very strongly. What image comes to the public of our conversation? We do indeed have 130 stock exchange companies, and half of their capital comes from different registers already at the moment. And a little bit of precision. Probably in the past many journalists and representatives have checked Stubb's proposal and this government's current proposal, and there is a considerable difference. Then the accuracy of the day as well. This process has not lasted a year here in Parliament. Its duration has been 1 year, 1 month and 17 days, and we have exactly three and a half months, 20 days to get
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u148	Mr President! The Left Alliance is not about political rhetoric when we are concerned about tax evasion and aggressive tax planning,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u151	I have also made contributions to the representatives of Lindtman, Turunen and Rinne. All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u152	Mr President! The opposition has been accused of intimidation when we have been concerned, for example, about the impact this bill will have on the authorities' ability to detect money laundering offences, for example. First of all, it must be said that such rhetoric — used by the government parties in their own line — has stated that they have not been elected to the parliament to promote crimes, Mr Pirttilahti, has been heard about the line of government parties, the line of the fundamental Finns, which today are not here to defend. And secondly: I am now, unfortunately, relying more on your political assessments here, fortunately on the central criminal police and the police, who have specifically stated in their statements to this bill, for example, the Central Criminal Police, that this involves the risk of opening up a channel for offenders, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u153	I will now comment on the answers that have been requested, which I will admit, at this point in time. Of course, Members will then receive as many speeches as they wish. Representatives Turunen, Rinne, Kopra, Vähämäki, Parviainen, and then the minister, if he wishes, gets 3 or 5 minutes of what he asks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u154	Mr President! As Mr Heinonen pointed out here, and what was really a surprise to me, the Left Alliance has been pushing for the registration of control in Finland in 1999. This was really a surprise to me, and I have to look at the basics that they were then. This is all very interesting. On the other hand, the finance minister was Rinne and Urpilainen, [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u155	Mr Turusen has been mentioned so strongly by the Left Alliance, I give Mr Andersson the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u156	Mr President! To Mr Turuse, I would like to say that the fact that Suvi-Anne Siimes, in 99 C.E., has said that he is in favour of the management register does not mean that the left-wing union has been driving the register to Finland. That's not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u159	Mr President! Now I hope that Mr Kankaanniemi will listen carefully. When this CSD Regulation was in preparation for the Board of Directors of Katainen, Minister Vapaavuori was the minister of responsibility. These things had been divided in such a way that securities matters belonged to Minister Vapaavuori. These were transferred to me after this whole package was in place and the entry into force regulation began to be defined in Finland. Since then, I have knocked out the control register in Finland, i.e. the Finnish management register and the possibility that Finnish ownership could be hidden abroad through management registers. So this is the fact that this has happened. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Vapaavuori, was responsible for these matters relating to CSDs at the time, and he was involved in this preparation, not the Social Democratic Minister Urplainen or Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u161	Mr President! Yes, I have understood that the party chairmen have quite a mandate to say such things as the chairman of the Left Alliance at the time, and he would have wanted to have a register of government in Finland, which is not now being brought to Finland by the current government. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u162	One last response to this theme, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u163	Mr President! Once again: While the party represented by Mr Heinonen still during this parliamentary term, while this government is sitting, has been driving the register to Finland, I find it rather strange and frankly ridiculous to dig up such examples.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u165	Mr President! This debate by Mr Heinonen certainly shows that the government is in real trouble with this issue. I think that if this debate were to continue a little longer, we would be in the '60s and there would be quotes. The fact is that this government, under the leadership of the National Coalition Party, and so that the Finnish ministers accepted in the Board of Directors, proposed allowing the registration of the administration in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u168	Mr President! Now that it has been established that there will not be a management register once it has been established that tax information exchange agreements have been concluded and concluded, when it has been established that there will be a 50% withholding of tax revenue for those who circumvent the rules, it can also be said that this bill does not offer any new means of criminalising. I am not a criminalising professional, but after talking to the police, I know, and I am sure many others know that there are many other ways of hiding money internationally that are easier than the framework in which we are working on this bill. We need to develop our financial system, we need to develop the movement of capital. We need foreign capital in Finland, Finns must be able to invest abroad. I believe that this understanding has traditionally been shared by the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u169	Congressman Kopra, you've exceeded your time very clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u170	Mr President! In fact, this is at the heart of this fact, an exchange agreement whereby banks and investment firms must identify their customers and the customer's home country and annually provide the home country with information on customers and account balances. So if anyone thinks that he sells the shares before paying a dividend and buys them back at a lower cost after paying a dividend, then there will be a balance on the account and those balance changes will then be reported to the home state. What is more, this identification, i.e. listed companies must identify their owners. This new legislation is also coming from the EU. This ponsi 2 presented today is a public publicity effort, and this is really good, increasing public publicity in relation to today's level considerably. I am now interested in what the opposition intends to vote on these positions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u171	As I said earlier, the following reply is from Mr Parviainen and then I will give the answers to the chairmen of the two opposition parties, that is, Mrs Rinte and Mrs Andersson, but not to the others. Then it is time for the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u172	Mr President! I will go back to what concerns us Greens especially now: I am sure we all want to make this proposal as waterproof as possible. In other words, we know that Finland has negotiated an exemption from the EU regulation on ownership systems. We know that this exception is tied to the current state of law. When the law changes, the exception ceases to apply. In other words, if, in the future, a Finnish party complains to the European Court of Justice that Finnish investors are treated unequally, can the European Court of Justice condemn that the registration of management should also be allowed for Finns in Finland now that the exemption we are negotiating will no longer be valid? Thus, this decision, which is now taken under this law, would indirectly lead to the adoption of a management register in Finland at a later date. I would ask that attention be paid to this, because we all certainly have the aim of ensuring that there are fewer loopholes. And the process itself: When you wonder why the people are so angry about this and the people are wondering and we in this Parliament are wondering, you can look in the mirror. This has been a very special procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u173	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Kopra that the SDP has no objection to strengthening the management of capital from the point of view of companies. These measures are sensible and good initiatives and measures in this as a whole. We are opposed to concealing ownership. We are opposed to allowing new ways of circumventing taxation, new ways of concealing ownership and new means of corruption, new ways of committing insider crimes. This government proposal means it. These efforts will improve this situation somewhat, but we think it would be sensible to do it again now in such a way as to restore this whole to preparation. We would then bring these legislative proposals as a whole in such a way that there would be no doubt that this problem would arise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u174	One last response to this debate, Mr Andersson, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u175	Mr President! As Mr Rinne has pointed out here, the main concern here is precisely about the publicity of ownership data and not creating practices that facilitate tax evasion compared to what it is at present. Moreover, these examples of the exchange of tax information do not guarantee public access to ownership information, which is extremely important from the point of view of various authorities, the police, but also, for example, investigative journalists, who need to have the opportunity to do their own work so that they can dig up interesting information about the financial links and potential financiers of party chairmen or responsible ministers. I would also like to reiterate that the problem here is not these statements as such, but that, although these statements show that government parties are also aware of the shortcomings and risks associated with this proposal before us, why are these shortcomings not addressed by legislation? I would like to ask the Minister once again whether it is possible to do so so that this whole package can be imported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u176	Minister, and on request, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u177	Mr President! I'll start with Congressman Andersson. We are aware of the fact that we do not have the means to prevent, for example in Germany, management registration as a system in place for them, and we cannot ban a resident of Finland from using it in Germany at that time, but we have made it unprofitable. We are aware of this and, in fact, this whole debate has revolved around this awareness, and the government parties together have been seeking until then the means by which we make it as unprofitable as possible. As the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs has said here, we have maximised transparency in this EU legal environment and also maximised the information of the tax payer and thus the legal protection of the Finnish taxpayer in order to maximise the collection of taxes in Finland. So we have done everything that I think and think can be done here. With regard to this debate on whose responsibility this has been, it is true what the representative, Mr Rinne, said. This was the responsibility of Minister Vapaavuori in the Katainen government when this EU regulation was adopted — certainly in the same government where you were. Then they moved to you, you certainly did not have time to make the legislation that would have denied this in Finland, or was there no way to ban it? That's what it's all about. Again, the same thing is happening: there is no way to prevent this management registration. But once again, on the basics: There is an EU legislative regulation in the background that creates the frame. We do not allow management registration in Finland. Finland is one of the world's top countries in terms of openness, access to information. In terms of investigative journalism, the authorities receive information, we are one of the world's top countries. This fact will not change, do not worry. In my view, most of the statements that are frequently referred to here refer to the earlier withdrawn proposal which contained the management register, the majority of them. Furthermore, the claim that Finland is going in a different direction than Europe is not based at least on any information I share. Is Germany changing its system? Not that I know of. Is France changing the system? Not that I know of. Finland is top in transparency. Now that we have the common legislation that is still in force, which will increase the information available to the public authorities and the tax authorities, as I have said, our situation is in fact even better and tax evasion is still a crime. We also have the best police officers and other authorities in the world, the tax authorities, who will be able to deal with these matters very well in the future. Finland is also a Member State of the European Union. We are bound by European legislation. It is the responsibility of this House and the government to bring this common European legislation home as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u178	I understand that this has been a very long debate, so I will no longer give many replies at this stage, but I will give the answers to the representatives of Lindtman and Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u179	Mr President! I would now like to say, when the Minister for Finance hinted a little that these quoted expert statements were not relevant to this bill and then later corrected when I asked for a reply: These statements by the Central Criminal Police and the police, which I am quoting, are precisely for this bill that is under discussion here today. And they clearly state that this involves a danger — once these words have been updated here, Mr Pirttila — for example, a large-scale concealment of money laundering and the proceeds of crime. And as far as the direction in which Finland is going is concerned, your own fellow party, Sirpa Pietikäinen, in the European Parliament, has today said in the paper: 'This project is a mistake and this is a deviation from the European line. The increasing pressure is just the other way." Today, your own partymate has overturned those very speeches,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u180	Mr President! I would like to give an example of the criticism and alternative offered by the opposition, because we have not given the kind of solution we have once before in this debate, as the Minister has now referred to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u183	All right, and there are still so many requests for answers that I will give the answers to the representatives of Pirttilahti and Turunen. Then the Minister's reply and then the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u184	Mr President! That's where Mr. Lindtman mentioned it by name. At least there's nothing on the police listings about this night of twilight, nor about Tomm and the twilight records of Turmiolan. Yes, these are your own inventions from the point of view of the opposition, and the image of what is being done here, that we are doing shady work. Here we are making genuine legislation for the Finnish financial sector, which is based mainly on honest conduct. And as I said, the Finnish stock exchange currently has half of the foreign capital financed by the management register. Indeed, the problem is this public information which has been improved at the moment by the automatic tax information system, BEPS and other international agreements. It has made the EU more open, but we have a problem with public access. The EU will not turn very easily in its own direction in terms of public access to the public, they are under very private protection. At the moment, there's actually this flagging system the only one,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u185	Mr President! I do not know what statements Mr Lindtman has now had in his hands, but you can believe that I have tried to look at the statements relating to this government proposal — police, justice and prosecution — but there is no support for any increase in the shadow economy or crime. And then, as far as the statement by MEP Sirpa Pietikäinen is concerned, it came to the Committee on Economic Affairs by telephone and, to put it nicely, was the mildest or less factual of all the statements that were. Why are the efforts here now, so the truth is that the government agreed to move this government's proposal forward because of the pressure on the timetable and agreed on the condition that we change that other legislation. That was agreed, and these efforts are now in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u186	Secretary Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u187	Mr President! To these further statements: When the proposal is based on the EU regulation of 2014, which will become a management registration in use in European countries that so desire, it will create the problem that has now been discussed here for days. And yes, there is a problem here, and that is what we have tried to find solutions to. But we have not found a solution to deny it. And this is the problem with the authorities. That is why this advance tax, a heavy one, and the maximum transparency and publicity of information are our answers. As far as the honourable Member Pietikäinen is concerned, he has said that in Europe the pressure is increasing towards transparency, that is, towards the traditional position of Finland, and that is a good thing. I hope that, in this direction in Europe, legislative projects will move forward, as they have done now, with reference to legislation that promotes information exchange agreements and transparency in the exchange of information, and I hope that this development will continue. Finland is therefore the leading country in transparency and access to information, and thus in the collection of tax resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u188	Now, at this stage, we will take a few list statements, and the debate can be continued later as necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u189	Mr President! Governance registration is widely used in Europe. The EU Regulation allows a listed company to issue its shares not only in its home country's securities depository, but also in dusk and sunshine. This EU regulation has been in force for Finland since 2014. The active party was Jutta Urpilainen, then Minister for Finance and Chairman of the Social Democrats. Finnish MEPs have negotiated an exemption, as has been said here, which allows a Member State to keep a register of non-compliance in its own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u192	Mr President! Yes, I would now like to say once again to Mr Elo and to everyone in this Chamber that this dossier, the securities regulation, was the responsibility of Minister Vapaavuori until August-September 2014. In no way has the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance been eager to promote this matter, so that half-truths are not now spoken around these matters. The fact is that, in all situations, the Social Democrats have opposed such a management registration model for use in Finland or outside Finland, which reduces transparency, reduces public access to the public, and for these things, both the Minister of Finance, Urplainen and Rinne have struggled here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u193	Mr President! If we are talking about decisions at EU level and about this regulation, the fact is that the previous government was the one who negotiated this exemption because it wanted to preserve and allow for the preservation of direct ownership in Finland. This government is the one who dares not hold to the Finnish interpretation so that the requirement of direct ownership is extended to CSDs abroad, as Norway has done, for example. This government is the one that goes behind the back of the EU when the previous government was the one who dared to negotiate derogations in the EU's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u194	Mr President! I find it gratifying that Mr Andersson wants to defend the current Mayor of Helsinki, Jan Vapaavuor, and apparently now here is the less active Jutta Urplainen and Antti Rinnetta. I must say that Mr Rinne has commented earlier that these efforts are improving this proposal a little bit. Next, he commented that these efforts somewhat improve this performance. Perhaps he will soon admit in the next speech the same as Mr Harakka that they 'dramatically change' this bill — and, as I said, dramatically improve and adopt it. In 2014, it was suggested during Stubb in 2015 that Finnish residents would also be able to register for control in Finland. In this government, the Finns have achieved what you did not achieve, that it will not come to the Finns. That is at least clear, and you could say thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u195	Mr President! There have been several speeches on the subject this evening. That's how dramatically it changes: it does. These efforts are absolutely excellent. In fact, I agree with the criticism of the opposition in the sense that these could have been created in the process at the time, but these good things are slowly being created through a good debate, and that is where we are now, and that is what we are dealing with. In other words, here Mr Turunen has made a good point, and I warmly support them in this regard, namely the change to this second point, namely the method of implementation, but also the fact that we have included in this legislation and we have examined this share of unlisted companies. Both changes are excellent. Here in the past, Harri Jaskari has also made a statement on withholding the advance and its direction. The withholding tax bites much better than the withholding tax base, and it finds these Finnish investors behind the management register, who are most likely also living in Finland. The model works even when the company has chosen a Finnish CSD, hides behind the Finnish management register, and when a listed company chooses a foreign CSD with the right to the EU Regulation. The tax is deducted at the time of the dividend payment by the listed company. It's clear. All in all to this problem: We have a great system in Finland, a good system, and the public publicity system for the ownership of the Finnish stock exchange is exceptional internationally. I was thinking about that when we discussed where the EU is going and where Finland is going. After all, Finland itself, through its own actions and with Mr Essayah, sought that the EU should have gone in the direction of Finland. However, an exception was granted to the stock exchange shares invested in Finland and the operations of listed companies, so that we have our own open system in Finland. There is a very strict level of privacy in the EU, and there is also the fact that there is really only this flagging system: if the share of shares changes in one direction or another, then regulations are required. But since the beginning of this year this automatic exchange of information between tax authorities has entered into force, which has improved significantly since the beginning of this year. It also provides information from behind the management register. There was quite a lot of talk about criminal activity and the related grey economy. It's definitely behind the crimes. 55 countries have already signed this tax agreement. But then this criminal activity: we have, even now, still, so that public authorities' access to information abroad is based on international agreements, EU regulation and requests for legal aid, so that information can be found through it, but it is more laborious, as has been said. Furthermore, this PEP system is under way and then money laundering legislation, which can influence this speculation and the various criminal activities mentioned by the opposition. The EU has developed in this year, it must be said. For this public access to the management register: It is perhaps more problematic, as I said before, that there is a strong level of privacy there. We also need to work hard on this, and that is why these efforts are there, and that is why we also need to look into this and put the government to work. I've been asked how strong a pony can be. That is a demonstration to the government by Parliament that you are doing this. It must have hard arguments on the government, if not as required by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u199	Mr President! Last week this management register was moved forward in the last hours of the evening. With joy, I greeted the solution that was thus brought to light. This debate has certainly proved useful also from the point of view of the citizens. This presentation allows Finns to use foreign management registers. As experts and public authorities have been consulted, this solution does not guarantee adequate public publicity or information about equity holdings. It had to be observed that the previous speaker, Mr Pirttilahti, had not done his homework. It is clear from the police statement: "The proposal under assessment, in its current form, presents a justified risk that the proposed possibility of multi-step and decentralised storage will open up more secure channels for offenders, for example, to large-scale money laundering and concealing the proceeds of crime." So these things and these concerns are not exactly the inventions of the opposition. The question is whether we want to ensure public access to ownership and information from the tax authorities. It is not a question of the EU forcing us into management registers or of us not being able to legislate on foreign countries. Last month, an amendment to the shareholders' rights directive was adopted which gave companies the right to identify all their shareholders, including those hiding behind the management register. And the directive does support efforts to increase transparency, when, as Mr Pietikäinen has said in this House today, we in Finland are going in the opposite direction with this management register and we are reducing these possibilities of access to information. That is why, even after this debate, I still believe that the best way and solution would have been for this proposal to be withdrawn and re-prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u200	Mr President! It is very important that the main content and spirit of the three proposals for statements contained in this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy be realised as effectively and as quickly as possible. Thus, the conditions for tax evasion can be amplified. The withholding tax rate mentioned in this first proposal for a statement is now being specified as a withholding tax and its value is being adjusted to 50%, which will safeguard the interests of honest taxpayers. It is precisely this high withholding rate that is the threat that constitutes a high barrier to tax evasion. Honest owners will continue to survive with a normal dividend tax. As Mr Elo said, with the expansion of automatic exchange of information, the stock holder should know and identify its customers. In this case, the custodian has information about the customer’s tax residence, and that is exactly what the 50% withholding rate proposed by the statement is based on. A similar implementation using withholding tax would be problematic as it would mainly target foreign owners and cause problems with the refund of withholding tax. Therefore, the way in which the draft statement is implemented is much more sensible, but it still takes the spirit of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy very well. The two statements made today by Mr Turunen continue to improve the conditions for public access to ownership data and prevent tax speculation by linking a non-listed Finnish limited liability company to a foreign book-entry system. In particular, this statement on unlisted companies is very important in terms of tax equality and is blocking the suspicions of loopholes raised in the public debate. That is what the opposition has been thanking us for today. With these changes and precision, the use of a foreign management register to preserve shares in Finnish limited liability companies becomes even more unlikely and unprofitable when the owner is liable to tax in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u201	Mr President! Interesting conversation and colorful conversation. I have to say that it has not occurred to me to fall asleep, that much has been waved out of the hives of the word. Now, first of all, I would like to say that it is hoped that this will be cleared up with honour, because there may now be such a contradiction in changing these positions that the President will have to wonder whether the Turunen 1 motion for a resolution and the report are at odds with the fact that the non-listed companies have not been excluded from the proposal. Has it become so unfortunate that, in this paragraph 1, the statement contradicts what we want now, when it is still included in the motion, so that it is not excluded? But then I guess this is...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u208	Mr President! What still confuses us in this debate is the contradictory messages about the direction of the government which does not give us confidence that this will actually lead to a solution which will satisfy the opposition and which will address all the problems that are involved. One government party wants to give the impression that there are no problems with this proposal, because there are no problems with the use of the holding register by the owners to manage the share ownership. The other government party, on the other hand, has been working hard to create statements that explicitly want to address the shortcomings associated with facilitating the use of the management register, i.e. it clearly sees that there are shortcomings and potential risks that need to be addressed. The second contradiction is that the minister responsible here says that everything has been done that can be done. Nevertheless, we now have a long series of statements here which would oblige the government to prepare quite a few legislative proposals which would then address the transparency of shareholdings and, for example, the direct exclusion of non-listed companies from this system, which is indeed still included in this proposal. These contradictions do not inspire confidence in me that this whole entity is in the hands of the government. I would also like to ask the question: why do we not have any proposals here for these corrective measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u211	Mr President! I'm going to give you another explanation of how I'm here in the voice. When we once discussed energy, an important energy reform project, I had been involved in preparing it earlier, I therefore took the floor. This was the case during the last parliamentary term, as Mrs Harakka said the last time this day, in the course of the Committee on Economic Affairs of that time, and I was actually writing the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and that opinion went to the Committee of EU Ministers, on which the position of the Committee of Ministers of the European Union was the message and the greeting with which the Ministers of Finland negotiated in Brussels. Above all, when a minister makes a proposal, an EU proposal, it is a minister's proposal, but ultimately all the rest of the government, the Government, bears the responsibility for it, because it is a Government proposal when it comes here and not a single minister's proposal. One detail relates to unlisted companies. I'm sure it's a good thing that this is the kind of push that's going to be approved tomorrow. But the possibility that the loophole in it would be blocked would be described in a more or less such way that the probability that a Finnish company, an unlisted company, would go to France and go there as a CSD and go there to the unlisted company in France for money in the securities system there, the probability that a Finnish company would do so is as small as M. Pekkarinen would one day become President of the United States. It's more or less the same, all of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u216	Mr President! I will reply directly to the speech by Mr Pekkarinen. The solution that the opposition has advocated here is not to prevent companies from issuing securities abroad, nor have we introduced legislation which in some way obliges foreign authorities to take certain types of legislative action. Of course, that's impossible. The solutions on which the opposition has spoken here are, first of all, models which oblige Finnish investors to have direct ownership, for example, at the risk of sanctions, even when using foreign CSDs. Secondly, we have also called for solutions that oblige Finnish companies — note — to identify all their owners directly. For example, Norway has interpreted this derogation from the EU Regulation in such a way that this model of direct ownership has also been extended to foreign CSDs for Norwegian owners and companies. In addition, the opposition has also called for a real-time and public register of owners because this automatic exchange of tax information between tax authorities does not yet guarantee public access to ownership, which is another major concern in relation to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u217	Mr President! Referring to the speech by President Pekkarinen, who had a very good speech, on how much is actually known about this issue, what is being discussed: when something has been said in this Chamber a short time ago that has not even been said, how do we know about this matter outside this Chamber? In my opinion, the following is descriptive: Last night I was at a meeting of the Savonlinna City Council, which was the last meeting of the council and then a little bit of aggravation. Not to mention the lack of time for which there has been an uproar, there was a long-standing delegation from the Left Alliance, who is now excluded from the council, for decades in politics, who has been elected for decades. Since the council hall is a public space, I can tell you this. He talked about overthrowing Sipilä's government, but added that while those holdings are hidden there behind the administrative law. I was sitting in the front seat and I said, "I'm sorry, behind what law?" Administrative law, he answered strongly. [Li Andersson's interlude] This is an example, this is a real account of how this issue has been internalized. It's been several months for me to know what's going on. This is not a simple matter. It can be titled easily, said in two or three words, but this is not the case. One of the most important elements of this kind is why this Regulation has been adopted: this has been done in the EU because companies are given the right to choose a CSD. That is the Commission's idea. I would like to raise two points here, in fact. One is this correspondence with the Commission, and the other is these statements. As I said earlier in the day, I have looked very carefully at the statements made on this government proposal, up to every little comma, and looked there for only one thing: that I might get the legal back of a statement not to have to accept this government proposal. I've been sitting on this thing for a year looking for it. Unfortunately, however, it is as President Pekkarinen said: it has not been found, not in the statements made by the Ministry of Justice. [Li Andersson's interlude] At some point, then, I took up the fact that, OK, this must now be cleared up by the Commission. I have had correspondence with the Commission. Questions I have asked the Commission: does this regulation, the CSD Regulation, require something from Finnish legislation? Does it deny anything? In practice, the Commission has replied that they do not say how Finland must legislate. And I have interpreted the answer so that if the Commission says that it does not dictate how to legislate in Finland, we can do it then how we want to do it. This has been my interpretation. And the answer of the Commission is that the final decision will be taken by the European Court of Justice. I have also been prepared to look at the outcome of the European Court of Justice. But looking at it in practice in the EU Court would have meant that in Finland, a single CSD operating here would not have been authorised in practice. I personally do not believe in this fine procedure. It may be possible, but it is a long process of fines. But we must remember that the regulation has already entered into force in 2014 and we are living in 2017. This fine procedure would have been entirely possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u218	Mr President! I have to say that this example of the local active opinion of the Left Alliance, used by Mr Turuse, was indeed the most understated comment during this whole debate. I can give you just how many examples of the various statements made by local authorities or councillors in different municipalities of Peruvian origin on matters that are not at all true, but I really do not feel that it is up to me in this Chamber or in connection with such proceedings to do or not feel that it is appropriate at all. [Kaj Turuse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u219	And we will return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u220	Mr President! I would like to thank Vice-President Pekkar for his speech with a deep sense of experience. You could have said at the beginning that let me tell you this in less than ten minutes — that's what happened. And I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Turus, for his excellent speech at the beginning of this evening. Although I'm not as coy as Vice-President Pekkarinen. I note that what he said, specifically referring to the Finns, is not the same as what Stubb presented in 2015. That is why we do not, of course, take the same view of it as we did of Mr Stubb's proposal at the time. Especially with these ponies, this is a much better performance than it was then. And it bothers me, too, that there are quite a few occasions when you hear feedback from citizens and even in the media at the level of the headlines, that the government accepts the management register. That is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u223	Mr President! I would like to thank President Pekkar for his excellent speech and analysis. And I would also like to thank the President for the work he has done here, which is also the basis of this proposal. There was Mrs Myllykoski leaving, but it was a question of what it would mean if Finland did not introduce this regulation. The first thing we have is that our CSD is not licensed. We must first adopt the new legislation and then the CSD Euroclear Finland must apply for authorisation. It is now calculated precisely today at approximately 3.5 months. In other words, by the beginning of October there must be a permit applied for, and summer holidays are still between here and there, and it will probably be one day when this legislation will be strengthened. If nothing is done, we do not have a CSD in Finland, to put it in Finnish. The second thing, of course, is that when the regulation is not introduced in Finland, sanctions will come. And Mr Mölsä made a very good speech about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u224	Mr President! Mr Andersson: First of all, it is good that you specify what you are saying in such a way that you do not claim — as I understand you at least — that Finland could deny that a Finnish company could go to France, for example, and operate there with the securities centre there. I now understand that you interpret that the derogation from Finland does not apply to this — good. But then you say that the law should provide that its Finnish ownership, for example, the ownership of a Finnish citizen there in France, should be direct ownership and that the Finnish exception would apply to this. I cannot find, nor can those experts find, any mention that this derogation from Finland applies to this either. There's no such thing. There the regulation states that each country must have an individualised and community-specific alternative. And the concept content of the individualized option is not the same as that of a personal book-entry account. We cannot find a point in the regulation that says that a Finnish can only go to France, for example, when he makes his investment, which is shown in a French book-entry account. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Andersson if you really think so, that we can provide that the only way a Finn can do it when he owns it is so that it is shown in a personal book-entry account in France, even though there is no such book-entry account in France — or if there is no such thing in Germany, how his personal book-entry account can be in Germany, for example, when the system there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u225	Mr President! First of all, with regard to the comments that have now been made here regarding this concession date and the time constraints, the opposition has also argued that the Finnish authorities and the government could designate this licensing authority before September, and in this respect there would be no time-bound problem or risk, and otherwise bring this whole together, prepared to bring these other solutions which are now being pursued, in the form of draft laws, to this end. Then, with regard to the points raised by Mr Pekkarinen, how this exception is interpreted — this is a question of interpretation. It sums up this: how do we interpret the deviation from this regulation? For example, with regard to this individual account, how can direct ownership be interpreted, what does it include? We think that Finland should stick to the model that we have been driving – or at least some of the parties here – internally, too, when we talk about these foreign CSDs, so that we really oblige Finns to have direct ownership of Finnish companies' shares and then Finnish companies to recognise their Finnish owners directly. In this respect, Norway — and it is not a question of whether Norway is within the legislative powers of this regulation in the same way as Finland — but of how Norway has interpreted the content of this derogation and how Finland could take a model from Norway if we want to maintain the similarity of this model compared to it. Then, as far as Mr Elo's comments are concerned, let me just say that the position of the Finns on this proposal has also changed as regards what it was at the end of last year, when a similar presentation was discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u226	Mr President! I admire when a person has a very strong will, as Mr Andersson does. But do you think that's enough? If there is a country where, for example, there is no system with a personal book-entry account system, if there is a CSD that has no knowledge of a personal book-entry account that provides accurate information, who owns, what owns, how much and so away, then how can it deny Finnish ownership in such a country? In practice, in such a country, a Finnish cannot own at all? If this were to be prohibited, I understand and these experts believe that it is unequivocally contrary to the content of that regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u227	Mr President! Like Mr Elo, I would also like to thank the Vice-President. On Mr Pekkar, on his rather long and excellent speech earlier, in which he described very well and extensively the details of this bill and, among other things, the framework conditions set by the EU regulation for us legislators in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the basis of the experience acquired last season. In particular, we cannot intervene in the legislation of other countries here in the Finnish Parliament, even though it is obviously a task that some of the representatives here want to do. [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u228	Mr President! For the information of Mr Andersson and everyone else, there is no provision in this government proposal that says that Finns could use the register of management abroad. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And why isn't it? There was no need for this government proposal, nor could there have been any. And this is an example of what EU legislation is at regulation level, that is what it is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-16-ps-54.u231	Mr President! This is where Vice-President Pekkarinen spoke of strong will. It is true, therefore, with regard to our party, and it was also the strong will through which
