ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u1	For the purpose of presenting the interim question, item 2 of the order of business is presented. Representative Harry Wallin and 70 other representatives have put a question to the Government about the current state and future of rail transport in question VK 3/2017. I now turn to the first signatory of the interim question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Following the presentation by Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order in which I am considering it, I will issue replies of up to 1 or 2 minutes. There will be a debate on this subject until 4.15 p.m., that is, for two hours. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the matter will be suspended and the debate will continue once the other points of the agenda have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item in the order of business is paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u3	Mr President! There is a medium-term climate plan or, more briefly, a climate plan to implement the Paris climate agreement and the EU's 2030 climate targets for Finland. After all, Finland acts internationally as a very active promoter of climate policy. I myself had the pleasure of being one of the EU's ministerial negotiators during the negotiations on the Paris Agreement over the last week, and we also contributed with a very constructive, strong contribution to the formulation of the EU's common objectives for the implementation of climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u10	The next round of group talks will be opened by Mr Honkonen, representative of the parliamentary group in the centre. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u11	Madam President! The country must be left to future generations in a better condition than it has received itself. This phrase describes the values of the centre and directs to the overgeneration and sustainable nature relationship. Nature is cultivated and preserved but not museumed. These values are also the cornerstone of this ambitious and realistic climate plan. By implementing it together, we Finns are doing our part in the fight against climate change, building a sustainable bio- and circular economy based on the use of renewable natural resources throughout the country, enabling sustainable choices in everyday life, both in cities and in rural areas. Mr President! Finland is already firmly on the right track. For the first time this year, renewable energy accounts for more than half of all energy consumed. It's a historic situation. This change has been achieved precisely under the leadership of the ministers of the city centre, under the leadership of the centre-driven government. Beautiful speeches about stopping climate change, good greens, are no longer enough. It's time for action. Realistic greenness is needed. Hopefully, we will be able to work together beyond government and opposition boundaries to implement this plan. We are moving from foreign fossil fuel to domestic renewable energy and to a wider bio- and circular economy. This means more euros, more jobs and more livelihoods in Finland and especially throughout the country. In the future, we will be both more self-sufficient and economically stronger. Finland must continue to work well together to achieve the goals that we have set in relation to renewable energy. This requires, for example, a good dialogue with the European Parliament and the Commission on the Renewable Energy Directive. Mr President! Finland will phase out the use of coal by 2030. Thanks to the Sipilä government, dark and memory piles of coal should no longer be found in the back yards of any Finnish city. The goal is carbon neutral Finland in 2045. This means that there will then be no more carbon emissions than our society will be able to tie them up, just as Mr Tiilikainen said earlier. Our forests also play a major role in this. As part of the change, the use of foreign imported oil will be halved. There is an increasing shift in transport to renewable fuels. The fastest emission reductions are achieved with renewable fuels, as has been done in Sweden and other Nordic countries. The number of electric cars and biogas cars will be increased. Wood construction will be promoted. These both enable sustainable urban development and create living conditions and, above all, jobs elsewhere in Finland. This is the practical construction of a balanced Finland. Mr President! Each of us can promote change through our own choices in our everyday lives. It is a matter of daily decisions, such as the use of a bike or the provision of food produced nearby. In most cases, climate-friendly alternatives also contribute to health and save money. More than half of the emission reduction targets are achieved by reducing transport emissions. That is why a great deal is being invested in the change in transport. In the future, driving will produce less emissions and the use of public transport, walking and cycling will be more attractive. This is overgeneration and a sustainable relationship with nature and realistic greenness. The scrapping premium, the aid to turn a petrol car into a gas or ethanol car and the aid to electric cars will speed up the renewal of cars in a more environmentally friendly direction. Cities and municipalities play an important role in improving access to light transport and in developing public transport. Mr President! The medium-term climate policy plan is a step in the direction of a low-carbon society for citizens. By strengthening our own strengths, we will succeed. Change is going on, and it's going to take all of us. The Central Parliamentary Group strongly supports the implementation of this plan. By acting now, our children and grandchildren will also thank us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u12	Madam President! "Atmospheric change, the climate change in the North In time, none of us can escape its devastating effects. In addition to direct environmental impacts, it affects safety and forces people to move from their neighbourhoods." So said President Niinistö of the Republic in his speech to the UN General Assembly last week. Today we are dealing with a medium-term climate policy plan, which is the first of its kind. Your review extends to 2030. The guidelines defined by the Climate Change Act and the EU's emission reduction target are in the background. The aim is to ensure consistency and long-term sustainability in our climate policy. It is worth reviewing why we have adopted the Climate Change Act, why we have adopted the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and why we are now discussing our climate policy. As we can see from the sitat at the beginning, climate policy is a security policy, but also an immigration policy. If immigration is of concern, it is worth taking an interest in climate policy. There are tens of millions of refugees in the world. Climate change can make things worse faster than we can imagine. Climate change, population growth, soil degradation, political instability, collapsed states and conflicts are interlinked. No country is immune to the effects. No fence or wall can stop extreme weather phenomena and rising water levels. The fight against climate change must be at the heart of policy. Mr President! Finland will phase out the use of coal by 2030. There is a shift in traffic that compares with the invention of an internal combustion engine. The goal is that in 2030 there will be 250,000 electric cars in Finland. The intensity of change is easily overestimated over a year or two, but in the medium term it is underestimated. The Government's draft budget is courageously looking to the future. We are investing in the fight against climate change by implementing the proposals made by the parliamentary working group on emissions reductions in transport. The construction of wood will be accelerated and investments in energy technology will be accelerated. Finland's environmental and climate-related efforts have also been criticised. The top of the criticism lies in the costs and benefits we receive. Many studies show that increased environmental governance has increased company profits and competitiveness. Of course, there are also the opposite examples. However, we cannot stop the inevitable development. Companies that do not want to reform will step out of the way of those who have internalised the global opportunities associated with climate change. Nivos Oy, who recycles waste heat, and Chemigate, which tightens chemical industry exports with its environmental expertise, are excellent business examples of new thinking. We can create new business in a way that is sustainable for the climate and enhances our well-being. Another way is to detract from the knowledge that has been studied, to seek to protect polluting policies and ultimately to decline into a welfare state of the past. Madam President! In addition to the state, municipalities, businesses and citizens have their own responsibility for the success of climate policy. On average, we are rather slow to make concrete changes in our own choices. There is a need for training and guidance, encouraging tax decisions and, for example, legislation on construction. A good example is the continuation of the scrapping premium programme to reduce transport emissions. At best, the values and wallet are synchronized so that decision-making is easy for consumers. In my home town of Valkeakoski, a discount has been offered to the buyer or renter of the property if renewable energy is used in heating the house. Significant emission reduction solutions are related to the urban structure and functioning of urban areas. Urbanisation is a trend that needs to be reacted to from a climate perspective. The coordination of land use, housing and transport will be promoted through MAL agreements. The state has made agreements with the four largest urban regions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u13	Mr President! Today we are talking about one of the most important issues that affects everything else. The success of climate policy does not only define the skill and responsibility of politicians; it defines the future of our planet. Finland must be a bigger player in international climate policy. We need international cooperation in order to achieve the Paris climate agreement's objective of curbing warming to 1.5°C. As part of the European Union, Finland must set an example for other countries. We have high emission reduction targets, because we also have high emissions. This report under the Climate Change Act is a good way to monitor widely what is being done in the various administrative sectors and what is needed more. From now on, all efforts must focus on stopping global warming. Climate change increases refugees. Africa’s population will double to 2.5 billion by 2050. Half of them are under 25. When people have no clean water and food, no prospects for the future or job opportunities through education, it is clear that they are moving. The fact that borders are being closed does not help the situation; it is necessary to address the causes of misery and hopelessness. Europe must be the leading force in promoting social stability, in investing in food production and clean water, and in improving education and training. This will enable us to strengthen economically and socially and environmentally sustainable development. I suggest that Finland is moving towards a strong and rapid drive for EU cooperation, which will also prioritise the target areas for assistance and pool resources. The EU is already the world's largest development cooperation player. The funds can and must be used more efficiently to give people a view of the future. That will improve people's living conditions and believe in a better future, and it will also relieve pressure on Europe. Mr President! The disadvantages of a carbon - rich lifestyle will be borne jointly by all countries. It is not only an economic issue but also an ecological and human cost. When assessing actions, attention must be paid to their social sustainability. However, costs must be distributed fairly. The effectiveness of these measures must also be assessed: only a tonne of carbon dioxide that is actually leaving our atmosphere will curb climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u16	Mr President! Climate change is a scientific fact and it requires — and requires — global measures to contain it. Man-made global warming must also be curbed for us Finns. The Government has issued a communication on a medium-term climate plan which, together with the previously adopted energy and climate strategy, will define the means by which we can achieve the objectives set out in the Government Programme, the EU and the Paris Climate Agreement. In order to avoid the most fatal climate impacts, global warming must be halted by less than two degrees. The path to a global climate agreement has been long and rocky. Like the Minister, I myself participated in the last week of the Paris climate conference as a representative of the Parliamentary Economic Committee and thus witnessed the creation of an historic agreement on the ground. Having seen with my own eyes how challenging it is to negotiate a global agreement, I cannot overemphasize the importance of commitment. But that is what happened when the United States announced its resignation from the Paris Agreement. I believe that the United States is making a far-reaching mistake here. Unlike President Trump, the climate agreement is not a bad deal. On the contrary, a bad deal is a non-agreement. As a small aside, the presidential elections in the United States will be one day before the final withdrawal from the Paris Agreement can take place. Last week it was announced that Nicaragua intends to sign the Paris climate agreement. So if the U.S. were to break out of the deal, it would be joining Syria. In this case, the USA and Syria would be the only UN countries not included in the agreement. That'd be a real twosome! In order to achieve global emission reductions, it is very important that free travel is not allowed. In order to reduce emissions, the actions to be taken must be fair, fairly implemented, economically and correctly targeted at the world level. The simultaneous timing of emission reduction measures is important in order to prevent, as far as possible, carbon leakage, i.e. the relocation of industry to countries where emissions are less penalised. Mr President! The climate plan concerns the non-emission trading sector, i.e. transport, agriculture, heating and waste management. According to the EU's internal burden sharing, emissions in Finland should be reduced by 39% from 2005 levels by 2030. The goal is challenging. According to VTT, the cost of the emission reduction target of more than 36% will increase significantly compared to the target of less than 36%. The Blue Parliamentary Group considers it important that in future emissions reduction targets are set at a fairer level within the EU for Member States. In the future, we must no longer be in a situation where Finland has to reduce its emissions by 39% and Poland, for example, by only 7%. In Estonia, too, a 13% cut is sufficient. The calculation criteria should therefore be changed in the future so that the reduction in emissions will be more targeted at those countries that produce more of them. The European Commission is making it possible to achieve a 2% one-off flexibility in the implementation of emission reductions. We in the Blue Parliamentary Group welcome the fact that this flexibility is being proposed in this report. The use of flexibility makes sense risk management and at the same time reduces our emission reduction burden in transport, agriculture and also housing. However, it must be borne in mind that the use of flexibility is not free of charge, but costs. Finland’s long-term goal is to be carbon neutral, i.e. to bind the same amount of carbon as we produce. The Blue Parliamentary Group welcomes the fact that the emissions reduction measures in the report are consistent with this objective. It is also important that the measures set out in the report do not significantly undermine our economic growth, which we have finally come on the path of thanks to the government's many painful economic recovery measures. It is also good that the report encourages citizens to reduce their emissions through their own actions. Each of us is capable of climate action and each of us is relevant. Last Thursday, September 21st, an international emission-free day was celebrated, Zero Emissions Day. I hope that this day will be taken more into account in our country in the future. Mr President! Finally, the implementation of the Climate Plan will be monitored every calendar year in the form of the Government's Annual Report on Climate Change. Climate work will continue at home as well as at EU airports. There is no long time until 2030 and much work still needs to be done to slow global warming down.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u17	Mr President! The energy and climate policy of our country has been translated into a more stable and predictable course during this parliamentary term and under the leadership of the sitting government. Prior to this, the decision-making sector did not have the stability that served the overall interests of our society and, at the same time, brought it more than lasting consistency over the parliamentary term. Now there's stability and predictability, and that's a good thing. In the big picture, an excellent example of this is the medium-term climate policy plan we are discussing right now, which goes almost hand in hand with the national climate and energy strategy. Mr President! The Group of the Finnish People's Party sees that the recent energy and climate policy strategy and now the climate policy plan can continue to increase the overall governance and social visibility and weight of the policy sectors concerned. These can thus also increase business opportunities based on environmental technology in the strong cleantech sector already in Finland, as the predictability of climate policy is further improved. One of these potential regional conquests is precisely the transport sector and its many potentials in the future. Mr President! As is well known, the best way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport is to replace existing fuels with either renewable biofuels or lower-emission fuels over time. The Group of the Finnish People's Party sees it as important in this development, through negotiations, to ensure that the European Union's regulation or any other regulation does not lock in the development of certain solutions. This will ensure the success of domestic operators in the sector in the future. Similarly, the Finnish Parliament Group sees that, alongside renewable biofuels, development must also be taken forward on the front of electric and gas vehicles. In order to do so in the future, this will require the decision-makers to take bold decisions. Such decisions are needed, for example, when deciding on the development, financing or improvement of the transport system at all of charging and refuelling points. True Finns are confident that the public opinion and the diversity of our country will not be ignored when the sector is developed in the future. In addition to the above actions, the Finns of Peru flag quite strongly for wood construction. We want more wood construction in our country, because wood construction has a lot to offer both in terms of jobs and in terms of the export sector. In addition, wood construction also serves as a good carbon reserve, which also plays a major role in climate policy. Wood construction also supports the goals of the Government's energy and climate strategy, as well as the climate plan. Finland as a whole could thus be the guide for wood construction throughout Europe. Mr President! When it comes to energy and climate policy, we must also remember the fact that the sector is also strongly affected by various international emission targets and various agreements, the most recent global climate agreement concluded at the Paris climate conference, which aims to limit the rise in average temperature on the planet to below 2°C. This approach is appropriate for the Finnish Parliament Group when it is ensured that domestic industry and other key players in the sector are not subject to excessive regulation or to the development of the sector as payment agents. In the case of new buildings, too, care must be taken not to over-emphasise construction costs due to the very new possible regulation at European level in the sector. Mr President! When we talk about climate policy and the climate plan that is closely linked to it, we can never ignore agriculture and its importance for our country. The Finnish Parliament Group attaches particular importance to the fact that the agricultural and forestry sector in our country, for example, will not be further hampered by over-ambitious emission reduction targets. It is true that in Finland, agriculture has a certain load on our waters, but this does not happen too much, given the current technologies, because a number of precautions have already dramatically reduced the nutrient load. Of course, we Finns continue our efforts to ensure that the whole of Finland will also be able to live and practise agriculture and agricultural entrepreneurship comprehensively in the future. Mr President! Finally, in the opinion of the Finns Party, the cornerstones of our country's energy and climate policy must be the highest level of self-sufficiency, security of production and supply, and affordability and low emissions. When these perspectives are taken into account, we have much more to gain in Finland in both the energy and climate sectors than to lose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u18	Mr President! The weather phenomena of recent years have shown that we are standing at the edge of the abyss. 2016 was the warmest year ever, as was 2015 before, and 2014 was the year before. I hear more and more researchers repeating the same phrase: climate change is moving faster than we have believed. The sea level will rise more, the heat levels will grow faster, the winds will blow more strongly. The rise of 2 degrees will cause more damage than we have previously understood. Finland is believed to be a model student of climate policy, but unfortunately the reality is different. The medium-term climate plan is based on the EU's target to reduce emissions by 39% in sectors outside emissions trading by 2030 and on the 80% target set in the Climate Act by 2050. However, the Government's forestry and bioenergy policy threatens to water down these objectives. In the EU, Finland is taking an unprecedented stance to allow Member States to reduce their carbon sinks without consequences, such as the purchase of allowances or further action in other sectors. Because of the bioenergy targets, the carbon sink of our forests threatens to halve, which would undermine all emission reduction measures in other sectors. The result would be that Finland would not reduce its total emissions by 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u21	Mr President! If we want the conditions for living on earth to be maintained, those decisions must be made now. That is why practically all the countries of the world signed the Paris climate agreement. That is why we are now trying to agree common rules in the EU in order to achieve the Paris objectives. In order for the earth to remain viable, we need to turn our greenhouse gas emissions down globally very soon and be completely carbon neutral by the year 50. These The decisions of the Paris climate agreement will not be achieved without changes in our production, consumption and lifestyle. Climate change is a fact, and right now we are deciding whether change is controlled or uncontrolled. Uncontrollable change leads to drought, hurricanes and, through it, massive refugeeism. In the EU we have agreed to reduce our emissions by 40% by 30 compared to 90. However, we already know that the current commitments are not sufficient and will be tightened up. Right now, you should be able to look close and far at the same time. Unfortunately, however, the government does not see far enough ahead. Therefore, reading the medium-term plan is frustrating. There are many good ways to do this, but the fact that emissions are being reduced is not enough; they must be reduced enough. On paper, it seems that we are achieving the objectives set, although in fact these objectives are not sufficient. The only sector where the objectives of the report are ambitious is transport, but there, too, we are focusing on mixing fuel poured into a gas tank from the forest rather than setting a genuinely ambitious objective for a zero-emission transport system. If forest sinks are to be reduced with increasing fellings, emissions must be reduced further elsewhere. In the case of liquid biofuels, this equation does not materialise, as when replacing oil with wood, the climate benefits are modest. President! Due to our cold winters, the energy consumption of our buildings is high and the energy efficiency of the existing building stock should therefore be supported more strongly. Climate impacts should be taken into account throughout the life cycle of the building, without forgetting the health and price of living. As far as agriculture is concerned, this report has for the first time set out important ways of reducing climate emissions: improving soil soil soils and raising the surface of groundwater by moving to crop-covered farming. Thank you, too, for the fact that the report has well identified the importance of public procurement. The Left Alliance has long called for a stronger climate perspective for public procurement. This is where municipalities and cities play an important role. The full potential of the circular economy and the sharing economy should also be genuinely understood and determined to reduce the consumption of natural resources. The principles of the circular economy give us more of the same: the prevention of waste at the design stage, the permanent valuable raw materials in circulation, the creation of new business, new jobs. But investment must support the development of the circular economy in order to guarantee us sustainable economic growth. Mr President! And then there's the woods. Finland and Finns live in forests and forests, but we must remember that the whole earth breathes thanks to forests. The northern coniferous forest is a vital carbon storage and carbon sink. Taking care of this carbon sink over the next few years and decades is our global responsibility, which cannot be avoided. The forest guidelines of this report and Finland’s objectives in the negotiations for EU regulation are a risk game. The reduction in carbon sinks is the same from an atmospheric point of view as the same amount of emissions elsewhere. We only have a few years to control the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. That is why we cannot think of cutting the carbon sink in forests now and then growing it again in decades' time. We simply do not have time for this. Even if fellings are measured sustainably in terms of the climate, Finland can continue to exploit its forests. The most important thing is that valuable wood raw material is used for high value added products. It is best for climate, the environment, the economy and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u25	Irade the Talman! Mr President! Hurricanes Andrew, Katrina, Irma, Jose. There is a drought in Syria that leads to unrest and civil war. Permafrost melts in Siberia and threatens to accelerate climate change. Deserts are expanding in Africa, and more and more people are no longer living in the country where they grew up. No one can turn a blind eye to what we see happening. We need long-term measures, but we also need immediate action now. There's no time to lose. The Government's medium-term climate policy plan is a concrete document that draws attention to the challenges facing us. The objective is carbon neutrality in 2045 and strong emission reductions by 2030. All of this is very good — it is just a question of how to implement it. Do we have the will, and are we on the right track? There are many indications that we do not see the seriousness of the situation. We're just seeing some of the problems, and we're blindfolding the whole thing. What are we doing right now? We're directing emissions trading revenue back to industry. We are not dealing with fuel taxation from the point of view of climate policy, but we consider it a pawn in regional policy. We will look at the budget book's investments in public transport as a fiscal exercise when we should look at them as part of climate policy. Part-optimization is not enough, but a holistic approach is needed here. Those who dare to face up to the challenges are also winners from an economic point of view. The sulphur directive temporarily increased costs, but it also offered new opportunities for the Finnish cleantech industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u28	Madam President! The Climate Policy Plan shall implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and shall aim at the forward-looking nature of the Action Plan, the active nature of the action to be taken, the long-term nature of the action and the consistency of policies. The challenges of sustainable development must be turned into opportunities for sustainable, job-creating growth. This means, among other things, a determined and long-term development of the environmental business, the bio- and circular economy and various ecosystem services. The new technology highlights consumer-driven bottom-up activities, which has been better taken into account in this plan. The energy and technology revolution makes us active players in the energy market in many different roles: consumers, producers and investors, including demand response and energy storage. It should be borne in mind that households also have significant energy saving and efficiency potential. However, making use of consumer-driven opportunities requires the determined development of an intelligent electricity network and energy system, as well as service design that understands consumers' needs and new user cultures. Decisions must be made on a consumer-oriented basis. One objective to reduce emissions from road transport is to promote the production and use of biogas. The KD has taken a number of initiatives in this regard. Working machines also want biogas to be propulsion, which requires hundreds of biogas plants for farms. However, there is a gap between objectives and funding in the report. For example, only EUR 6 million will be invested in electricity, ethanol and gas conversions in cars next year and only EUR 3 million in transport infrastructure. The plans are good, but with these efforts their implementation threatens to remain with the next governments. The report places a great deal of emphasis on the increasing share of heating oil, machinery and transport biofuels. At the same time, the extensive transition to biomaterials must ensure the biodiversity, food security and biodiversity of forests and seas. After transport, the emission reduction estimate for waste management development is the second largest. The Waste Management Act therefore allows municipal waste management companies to sell on market terms at least 10 % so that they can effectively develop their activities. Finland also has significant export potential in a circular economy that uses waste. In order to promote exports, national references to Finnish energy and environmental know-how are needed, which can and must be promoted through innovative public procurement. There is also a need for demonstration facilities and courageous private and public investment. Good procurement and operating models need to be put into practice. Export potentials must also be taken into account in education and science policies to develop and maintain knowledge. Technological developments in many sectors will enable the best and most cost-effective climate action. Right now, both companies and public authorities must invest in research, development and innovation. It is a major mistake that R & D funding in relation to GDP has fallen from 3.8 to 2.6% over the last eight years. We must not jeopardise the competitiveness of the domestic clean technology industry and its development, otherwise production will be transferred to more polluting plants abroad. Madam President! 75% of consumer-related emissions come from food, housing and passenger transport. When small-scale residents in particular have to invest to improve the energy efficiency of their homes, invest in new energy solutions and pay more for heating oil, it is all the more important that income disparities are not broken down and that these measures are also made available to more deprived households. The report also notes that economic governance and financing models suitable for energy renovations have not been developed. The extension of the household allowance has also not been clarified. The energy review, fitness assessment, fitness examination and the planning of repairs should be included in the household allowance. We look forward to correcting these matters as soon as possible. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u29	Before the debate, I would like to speak to the ministers. Secretary Berner first, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u30	Mr President! The EU emission reduction target concerns the entire burden-sharing sector. Transport is currently considered to have the highest emission reduction potential. The burden-sharing decision applies only to domestic transport. International transport is outside its scope. In domestic transport, road transport accounts for the largest share of emissions, i.e. 90%. Therefore, emission reduction measures must also be targeted at road transport. The main means are transport system plans in urban areas, measures to promote walking and cycling and public transport, and the coordination of land use and transport. A key action is also to improve the supply of alternatives to passenger cars by modernising the transport market, including by promoting services provided by the Transport Services Act. The aim of the Act is to promote the emergence of new service models and thus better respond to the needs of users. The law promotes the introduction of new technologies, digitalisation and new business models. Open data and better use of data resources create conditions for new business ideas. At the same time, attractive alternatives are being created for the ownership and use of a passenger car. However, freedom of movement is not to be restricted. Existing and future mobility needs will be implemented more efficiently, economically and with less energy consumption in ways other than driving alone. In spring 2017, the Ministry of Transport and Communications launched a project to promote walking and cycling. During the project, the Ministry prepares the Government's decision in principle to promote walking and cycling, and the promotion programme also includes a walking and cycling investment programme for municipalities. The Act on Transport Services is the most important means of promoting public transport. Providing better services to the consumer and various digitalised and compatible route and payment service models have already brought new users to public transport. KAISU has also stated that efforts are being made to promote the change in people's mobility patterns through the development of public transport in large urban areas and the promotion of rail transport. The Finnish fleet of cars is renewing very slowly. Already, through the energy and climate strategy, the target of 250,000 electric cars requires approximately 20% sales of new cars every year from 2020 onwards. KAISU states that 6 million would be allocated to the State budget for the purchase of full electric cars and the conversion of gas and ethanol into old cars. The proposal is based on the proposal of the parliamentary working group on emissions reductions in transport. KAISU also proposes a return to the scrapping premium for 2018. A total of EUR 8 million was earmarked for the scrapping premium in the autumn budget line. EUR 4.5 million has been earmarked for the promotion of the transport infrastructure for electronic transport and biogas use in KAISU and the State budget for 2018. Today, the government has presented its proposals for a consultation. Finland is currently ranked third in the EU comparison in terms of the share of electric cars in sales of new cars. Only Sweden and Belgium are mentioned above. However, the problem has been the slow start and the slow renewal of the car fleet overall. Biofuels can be mixed with existing fuels and used in existing cars. Biofuel therefore has the potential to achieve rapid emission reductions in relation to other options. After 2030, however, the relative importance of biofuels in reducing emissions will decrease, while measures to improve the efficiency of electric cars and the transport system will increase. Therefore, all measures are necessary. The emissions reduction targets in transport are very ambitious, and the more we deepen them, the more challenging they are, the entity we should be able to perceive and be able to make decisions on. We've got 12 years. This means that each of us, but also every business organization, society, the municipality, must take part in these decisions and decisions. The biggest influences are us people and the people who make daily choices around our traffic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u31	And Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u32	Mr President! I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their contributions. It became clear that Finland’s active international approach and concrete measures to combat climate change enjoyed unreserved support among the parliamentary parties. It was nice to see you. Many of you, in your speeches, identified the global problems that the lack of climate change would bring in the form of climate refugees, food and water shortages, and their reflections also as a wavering factor in societies outside those crisis areas. Very well, it underlines the importance of what we need to do. When the government presents 57 measures, I did not really hear concrete proposals that no one would have made more or otherwise. Mr Tanus suggested a slightly broader use of the household allowance for some activities. It may have been a further step, but here's the good thing. But it is good that many highlighted the issues that the government has already taken up. For example, several speeches wanted to speed up the construction of wood, and yes, we will change those building regulations so that the wood is on the same line with other building materials from the beginning of next year. Additional investments presented by the Board of Directors in the development of expertise in wood construction from next year's budget onwards are welcome. We have a good speed here, and that speed should be put forward, because the wooden building is a carbon storage facility. That's where the coal tied up by the tree really doesn't get anywhere, it stays for as long as the building's still standing. I would like to address one slightly incorrect point of view. Mr Modig, as such a good speaker, a strong defence against climate policy, but that renewable fuels would somehow be wood-based or wood-based, I would say that virtually all renewable fuels currently produced in Finland are based on waste materials, various waste fats, or, of course, pine oil produced as a by-product of the pulp industry. But it is precisely in the spirit of the circular economy, as many of you pointed out, that the most efficient use of these waste materials in renewable fuels will continue. I thank the groups for their strong support for this ambitious climate work that the government is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u33	It is now possible to use the answers in this debate. I'd like to ask your representatives to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u34	Madam President! The climate policy of the Sipilä Government is ambitious, as we heard here. Minister for Climate Change Mr Tiilikainen has just said in his own speech that Sweden and Finland are the only countries on this ball who have decided to make their own country carbon neutral by 2045. We must remember this long-term ambition, which is now being pursued by this short-term programme. There has now been a great deal of debate on biofuels in these speeches. The Finnish line is both—and. We will allow an increase in the number of electric cars and then a rapid reduction in emissions with a blending obligation for biofuels. Let me get this straight: both the Greens and the Left have the line that, in the short term, we will continue to use fossil oil in the current model and not seek rapid emission reductions, which are possible through the extension of this blending obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u36	Madam President! Thank you to the ministers, Mr Berner and Mr Tiilikainen, for taking this important matter forward. This transport issue has come up from a number of different points of view, and that is the crucial role to be played. As one of the details of transport, I am raising the issue of cycling, which you also addressed somewhat. Yesterday we visited Tampere University of Technology with the Environment Committee, where the Verne unit of transport research also went through urban cycling. With this urban cycle system here in the capital region and a good reception in Helsinki, citizens will like it, there will be little vandalism, there will be many miles, and I am concerned that this system will not be fragmented as if it were different in different cities — or would it be possible for it to be scaled across the country? The wheels may be different, but the flag, the PIN codes, etc. would be the same everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u37	Mr President! I would also like to raise the question here that when change is made and a change is needed to create green quality jobs and to invest in low-carbon technology and research, attention must also be paid to these jobs and their quality. At the same time, I would also like to stress that we should also talk about how to invest in the skills of employees. In other words, when the world changes, there is also a need to update knowledge, which is why from the climate perspective it is important to also pay attention to updating the skills of employees whose livelihood depends on the fossil economy. With this I would like to call for this change to be socially sustainable, and I would like this to be a key element in the Government's action programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u38	Mr President! However, when I listened to these group speeches, the result is that the conclusion is that all the parliamentary groups are involved in these climate negotiations and that this climate plan is also on the side. Perhaps, of course, are such schedule questions or weighting differences a little. One cannot fail to comment on the Greens' speech that Finland's emissions are still so small that it will not help anything, even if we turn off the lights from Finland. It's not gonna save the world. We must remember that Finland is part of Europe and the EU, and the EU is one of the parties to the Paris climate agreement. That is why, in my own group speech, I also stressed the need for these reductions to be made in a timely and timely manner so that there would be no carbon leakage. Now that Mr Haatainen has also referred to these jobs, this is a great opportunity to find new jobs in the cleantech sector. But let us not do this structural change too quickly, so that we lose traditional jobs and then wait for these cleantech jobs, but this restructuring in these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u39	Mr President! First of all,thiscircumstancesarepromotedin every way,andit is often said that another wasteis another raw material. Secondly, I would like to point out that now everyone should give up coal in the 2030s. I will take just one aspect of this: do we have any energy supply? It is precisely in terms of security of supply that we know today that if there are hard frosts in January, then the energy spike is high, i.e. it is known that it is good to store coal in such exceptional conditions so that it is not quite finished with coal. Thirdly, I would like to highlight these logging. That is the truth of the day, but I also say that a proper forester does not leave that hole but plant it in his time. For example, pine is already cornered after 50 to 60 years, i.e. industry
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u43	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen, when you said that there were no proposals in these group speeches as to what should be done, I said that peat is still taxed lightly, even though it is more harmful than coal, I said that a new aid for pollution, emissions trading compensation, was created, and I said that the tax revenue from fossil energy is still hundreds of millions a year. So my proposal now is: do the exact opposite, because these will, however, have a much greater impact, and describe the scale: the compensation of emissions trading and the refund of energy taxes totals 257 million per year, with 48 million earmarked for the implementation of the energy and climate strategy, and these will lead in the opposite direction. This is a choice of values that I do not believe would be made if we had a better understanding of the consequences of climate change at its worst in this Chamber. The question to Mr Turusee: if China were to be divided into 100 parts, could we say that emissions from the Chinese countries would not matter at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u44	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen: It was precisely for this reason that I used biofuels as an example, to which Mr Vartia referred. The stake must be where the benefit is greatest. That is what I disagree with the government's choices. Mr Honkonen asked what would then be the short-term vision of the Left Alliance with regard to transport. I guess we're more ambitious than you are. Let's see how the technology of electric cars develops, how the batteries develop, how the price of the electric car comes down.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u48	Mr President! The Paris climate conference has concluded the latest global climate agreement aimed at limiting the global average temperature increase to below 2°C. This calls for radical measures which may give rise to concern about the success of domestic industry in the midst of ever-increasing regulations. In addition to this, the directives coming from the European Union and the tightening emission targets may lead to building costs, for example, starting to get out of hand if regulation is too strict in the sector. Mr President! I would like to ask the minister concerned: how will the success of Finnish industry and the maintenance of construction costs be taken into account, for example, in the preparation of future legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u49	Ärade talman, Mr President! Climate work is, of course, a national issue, but, to the greatest extent, international. Development cooperation for climate sustainability in 2015 amounted to 245 million, the following year to 189 million, and for this year it seems to stop reading EUR 165 million — the direction here is clearly wrong. Despite the Paris climate agreement, the financing of Finland’s climate sustainability development cooperation has fallen. The drop has been EUR 80 million over the last few years. How does the government respond to this? How do you see these international obligations as part of this climate policy programme? Do we have an international responsibility here, an international task, or are we just looking at the situation within the borders of our own country?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u50	Mr President! Finland has energy and environmental expertise. However, national references are needed to promote exports to Finnish energy and environmental expertise. References can be promoted through innovative public procurements, and good experiences with such new procurement and operating models have been gained, for example, through the Hinku-, or Towards a Carbon Neutral Municipality project conducted by the Finnish Environment Agency and also through the SIB funds supporting Sitra’s impact investments. I would like to ask the Minister how the government promotes and seeks to disseminate these good procurement and operating models as good practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, a round was just to be held in the order of the group speakers. There were two speeches in a row from a group in my file, but hopefully there was no terrible damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u52	Mr President! We are talking about the fate of both Finland and Europe and the world when we talk about how this climate change is taking over. This time I want to pay tribute to the government. It is often said that the opposition always presents all those shortcomings. This is not perfect either, but the basic career that the government has chosen here is the right one, and it is also important that this debate here can take place under very broad conditions of consensus. None of these measures is sufficient for a parliamentary term, but it is a task for several parliamentary periods, and when this objective is set in common, I believe that it will also result in practical action after this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u53	Mr President! Now that this issue has also been raised, I would like to say that Finland's long line in climate policy during the various environment ministers, Hassi, Niinistö and Tiilikainen, has been the same, i.e. to try to grow sinks and yet to make use of some of this growing amount of wood. It is interesting now that this debate is in the sense that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u54	Mr President! We need different measures in the short and long term, and now, in the long term, in transforming transport into low-emission and zero-emission, an excellent measure is, for example, to support the transition to electric cars and biogas-fuelled cars. However, I understand that there are not very many players in this area who are doing this. How does the Minister estimate: what volumes can be reached in this area? My second question concerns the objective of increasing walking and cycling trips. To this end, an operational programme is being drawn up in cooperation with municipalities. What measures will this involve?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u55	Mr President! The Government proposes an increase in the blending obligation for biofuels in transport to 30% and a 10% blending obligation for machinery and separate heating. These measures will prolong the use of oil-based technologies instead of faster switching to electricity and biogas. [Anne Kalmar’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u56	Mr President! When deciding on the land use climate impact calculation rule, the categorical imperative of Immanuel Kant should be kept in mind: act in such a way as to make your policy a general law applicable to everyone. In this case, it means that Finland's position on the calculation of the climate impacts of land use must be such that it is sustainable from the point of view of combating climate change, even if all countries in the world act accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u59	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Greens: For example, what would they like to put in the combined heat and power boiler in Helsinki? Why is it bad that the car moves with liquid-recyclable biofuels versus coal or electricity produced with Hanhikivi's future nuclear power? I would like to clarify the diversity of forests in this Chamber as follows: Finland has 20 million hectares of good economic forest. If we have about 100,000 hectares of forest that are being harvested, we have 90,000,000 hectares of forest that are not being touched, plus all the protected sites. Think about how little of that forest will eventually be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u61	Mr President! Of course, it is difficult to take a position on the municipal policy of Helsinki as the municipal decision-makers of Northern Ostrobothnia,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u64	That is definitely the last thing I have to say to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u65	Mr President! It is indeed good that Metso funds were increased, but I would also like to tell you the fact that about 33% of protected species are in Finnish forests. For example, almost as much is found in natural meadows. I would like the Greens to be equally concerned, for example, with the safeguarding of livestock farming, which will enable us to protect these highly endangered species.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u68	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Immos, who raised the concerns of the Finns and also the need to ensure that we maintain employment in Finland with people. That's why I would have asked the minister: How much work is being done to ensure that we get this win-win situation? So when we have, just as you told us, this fuel from waste material and, among other things, in African countries there is a huge waste problem, how can we bring technology to it? That would be the best development aid: both win. You don't always have to take all the money. How are projects like this coming along? Something tells me that they are not really being talked about, but that they are always talking about the amount of aid that is being provided for in the gross domestic product of the euro. Would such projects be a question, and how could they be promoted? I'm sure we've got a hell of a lot of expertise. Could the Minister now tell us how everyone will win, both Finland and Africa and climate change as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u69	At this stage in the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Paatero and Mr Kiuru and then to the Minister for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u70	Mr President! It is great to discuss climate issues here now, because the 2030 Agenda was discussed the other week and these are very closely linked. We have a lot of work to do to improve the different skills and understanding of consumers in order to change the behaviour of all of us, but political decisions are also the ones that guide consumer behaviour. For this reason, it is a very good example that the Climate Act came into force in 2015, and that is why the Social Democrats have been very closely involved in the themes of the circular economy and the new guidelines for it, in order to bring all waste streams and others into the best possible cycle. I am a little concerned — but we have international responsibility in this climate issue too — about our contribution to climate funds in our development cooperation and, on the other hand, about our development cooperation money, so that in those countries where we actually have much lower emissions today, food production, jobs and so on can be created.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u71	Mr President! I'll take it from cycling. Mr Tiilikainen, what means do you think could be that would help to promote cycling in the fastest and most effective way? I have heard ideas about extending the household allowance to part of bicycle maintenance and reviewing the mileage allowance. And then to the urban cycle system: if it is scaled more widely, could you think of bringing an e - bike along with it in some way? Mr Modig then pointed out that the government's objective of promoting electric motoring is unambitious. 250,000 cars in 2030 is a good minimum target. I'd love to hear what you think is the right goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u72	And Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u73	Mr President! A few answers to concrete questions: Congressman Kiuru asked about the promotion of cycling and the urban cycle issue. Minister Berner, when he left, asked to point out that the next reform of the transport package contains the idea of obliging compatible urban cycle systems across the country. Other ways of promoting cycling are, of course, the construction of light transport routes and information. Will there be various financial incentives, for example, for commuting things or so, its time will show. With interest, we'll accept the ideas. I would like to thank the representatives of Heinäluoma and Paatero, who have made an excellent point of long-termism. Now the climate law has been adopted, it enjoyed extensive support last season, now it has a climate plan, and, as has been said here, we need long-term action from now on. That's right. On industrial competitiveness, construction costs, Mr Immonen asked. Controlling the cost of building, if energy efficiency requirements were to be tightened, is an appropriate issue. That is why, at the Ministry of the Environment, we have launched the idea of developing a standard for construction, which looks at the carbon footprint throughout the life cycle. This path to energy efficiency has in a certain way been brought to an end. Now we need to see how, in terms of building materials and their production and also the dismantling phase, we can reduce the carbon footprint as a whole in the future. Some people were worried about industrial competitiveness here. It has to do with emissions trading, of course, but I will answer that now too. So I am very pleased with that emissions trading solution, which has been achieved within the EU, because it will reduce emissions quickly enough, but at the same time the energy-intensive industries that are important to us Finns will receive sufficient free allowances. This is good. Of course, new technologies and their export potential will hopefully be realised. For example, next week I will be going to India with a business delegation on a trip specifically related to energy technology. But then, Mr Vartia, you are considering the taxation of various forms of fuel. That too goes mainly to the emissions trading sector, but I am concerned about how emissions could also be rapidly reduced in the emissions trading sector. In 2016, emissions in district heat production increased due to increased use of coal. It underlines the need for the government to move forward with this carbon ban law until 2030, because otherwise the cities will not appear to be making rapid progress. At the same time, however, I regret to say that the Greens and the Left, together with you last season, were raising the rate of electricity tax recovery, extending it to new areas, and now you are criticising it as environmentally harmful aid. But why did you raise it last season?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u74	Two hours had been set aside for this debate at this stage. The debate will then be resumed after other matters have been dealt with in the order of business, but since the debate was brought forward 15 minutes late due to the mid-term question, we will now continue for less than 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u75	Mr President! The North Forests and their protection were raised here. As a Lapp, it must be said that when one third of the area is protected in our province, we think that when some of the remaining land is forested and only about 50% of it is used, we will be able to accommodate units, bioeconomy plants, which, among other things, would produce transport fuels from the bioeconomy and make a little more use of the annual forest growth that is constantly increasing in the north. If we are going to take such a tough target as the government has now taken that Finland is carbon neutral, then we need a long-term overall plan for this, and if it involves, for example, increasing wood construction, which is a very good objective, then it cannot be thought that forests are not being cut at all when timber is obtained from the sawmill. There is no need for agriculture when milk is obtained from the store — this kind of thinking cannot be included in this. That's why I'm very happy to accept this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u76	Mr President! The goal of carbon neutral Finland 2045 is good. The solution cannot be postponed until after 2030. It is quite clear that the coming years 2018 to 2020 will be quite critical. It is now important to invest in changing people’s attitudes, and it is important to strengthen the consumer’s view of climate-wise decisions. It is important to put domesticity at the forefront, including housing and regional construction, close housing, the development of public transport and the potential of urban policy. But, Minister, I am interested in the fact that, now that it seems that electric motoring is the winning energy form in cars, the winning technology, many countries are banning internal combustion cars. Now that Finland is so heavily equipped with biofuels for passenger cars, how do you see this electric car?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u77	Mr President! I sit in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and we often deal there with issues relating to energy policy. Among other things, there is talk of emissions trading — even if it is outside of this, but now that it has been mentioned, I say this — and with one voice we repeat that climate change is the greatest threat of our time. One voice we say is that emissions trading must be made to work in order for emissions to fall more quickly. But the majority always say that we must not do anything that increases the cost of energy for industry. If we want emissions trading to work, we need to reduce the number of allowances in order to increase the price of allowances in order to have some sort of steering effect. This is the problem. We always end up against measures to reduce emissions. The same applies to today's debate: forests are to be cut, but if they are to be cut so much that, in reality, our emissions are not to be reduced while they are in a hurry, it must be compensated by concrete measures elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u78	Mr President! Mr Vartia has already asked me a question which is no longer relevant — but, in fact, what has just been said is timely. I would stress that, when these emissions are reduced, this co-existence plays a major role so that there will be no carbon leakage. Or if, for example, Finland is ambitious in its early years to make decisions that in practice take away international competitiveness, then we Finns will have a bone in their hands. Finland is part of the EU, and in the Paris climate agreement the EU is one of the parties, and then, when we are negotiating these emission restrictions, reductions — well, now we have a slight unfair percentage, but we are getting along with it — this reduction must take place at the same time within the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u79	Mr President! According to the calculations made by MIT, one of the best universities in the world, the measures announced in Paris would slow down the estimated global warming by 0.2°C by 2100. Emissions from Finnish industry, households and agriculture and transport are already minimal compared to Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, even Germany and Denmark. And this performance has a heavy price tag. According to Pellervo's economic survey, the price of district heating will increase by around 40% for residents, between EUR 400 million and EUR 600 million per year for households, between EUR 800 million and EUR 1200 million for industry, and an additional decrease in traffic is estimated by LM at EUR 800 million per year, so these must be fair and fair. I would like to ask the Minister now that he is here: could we replace coal with peat?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u80	Mr President! This long-term climate policy plan contains a lot of important priorities. Of course, the share of road transport is significant, and Minister Berner was well involved in the transport sector. I would have asked him again — when he said that freedom of movement was not intended to be restricted — what was the attitude towards congestion charges in the future and, on the other hand, when there was also a debate on the more environmentally friendly direction of the car fleet, what was the idea of making the car fleet low-emission, but he had already left. On the other hand, food loss became important and what is important is for people to be encouraged and changed in attitudes in such a way that action can be taken to reduce this food loss itself. However, I would have asked Mr Tiilikainen: do we have these regulatory issues, standards that in some way prevent this food loss?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u81	Mr President! Indeed, the government has acted decisively and consistently and has set hard targets and has also decided on practical ways of reducing emissions. This is important not only to talk but also to do things. Still, I would have returned a little to that green line of carbon sinks. It is a pity that this line has now changed from government times to green, because during the last season and during previous governments all Finland's environment ministers, including Hassi and Niinistö, have been pushing for this Finnish model to be able to increase fellings if this carbon sink issue does not deteriorate. In other words, our forests are growing more than they will continue to be used in the future, even when harvesting levels are raised, and it is amazing that this line has now changed in the opposition. I wonder what's going on here. At the same time, the Swedish Greens also supported the Finnish model so that what is the situation with the Finnish Greens?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u82	Mr President! To this claim that my line as Minister of the Environment in forest sinks would have been the same as that of the current government: I've written a detailed report online. Between 1999 and 2002, when I was Minister of the Environment, the carbon sink of Finnish forests grew, [Interjection from the Centre Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u83	We now have a response from Mrs Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u84	Mr President! Public procurement is carried out in many tens of billions of euros, and I would have liked this good report to have placed greater emphasis on the importance of public procurement. They require these innovative procurements, a 5% share of public procurement, and could then also guarantee quality, sustainable and innovative procurement, which also serves these climate objectives. I would hope that this government will make a powerful point now, because the municipalities, the state, the public sector, are a truly important player in many different areas of life. Overall, the whole ethical life cycle of these procurements could be more strongly involved in these procurements. Of course, the municipalities decide for themselves, but in this kind of government good direction and pampering is always in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u85	At this stage in the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Modig and Adlercreutz and then to the Minister for 2 minutes, and then we will move on to the amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u86	Mr President! To Mr Kiuru, I would like to say when you asked whether this objective is not ambitious enough: well, there are currently 100,000 electric cars in Norway. Where the Left Alliance's view may differ from that of the Government is that the charging network, so that its electric car can be loaded, is absolutely essential in order to make electric cars more widespread. The Government has decided that it will take place and that its network must, as a rule, be created on market terms. I believe it will succeed here in the densely populated Helsinki, the capital region, but I wonder about the inhabitants of remote areas. Yes, it would require greater public investment to make it really possible for everyone, regardless of their place of residence and level of income. Once again, this picture is being painted that our entire industry is going to die and we are going to go bankrupt if we now take up this challenge, which is actually taking away our chance of living. If you are genuinely concerned about Finnish jobs, you have to see the fact that jobs in the forest sector will not look the same in the future as they are now. We have a lot of new innovations, new ways, new products from wood, and these must be supported — this research, development and innovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u87	Well, let me give Mr Jarva the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u88	Mr President! Fortunately, the government is working on this investment to develop the activities and products of the forestry industry in particular. From an environmental point of view, it is unacceptable that at the moment our wood is being taken round, especially from those northern regions, long distances to industrial plants. For this reason, it is precisely processing that should be brought close to where the tree is growing, and it is making products that are being made, for example, in connection with the bioproduct plant planned for Kainuu, in order to replace, for example, water-intensive cotton and, in the future, in the process of the Chinese viscous industry, to replace sulphur-carbon — a major global problem — that can be helped — and can be replaced by oil-based plastic, and so on. This requires that we also be able to increase the level of felling. Those carbon sinks are coming back, and they're starting to grow after 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u91	Reply Mr Adlercreutz, and even after him, I will give the reply to Mr Kiuru, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u92	Irade the Talman! Sometimes it seems that the concepts of carbon sink and carbon storage are confused. Now we are working on our own to create a line that really halves the carbon sink, and that may be all right, but then we have to compensate for it in some other way. It's just math. You have to accept it and dare to see it. The theory of carbon leakage — not everyone agrees with it or agrees with it. Mr Kiuru mentioned yesterday's visit to Tampere, and there we heard a transport presentation in which the rapporteur said that private car transport was being supported by the most hidden, including the fact that there are different rates for private cars and even for public transport. He considered this to be a support for private cars and felt that the rate should be travel-dependent and not dependent on the means of transport used. Do you have any thoughts on this matter? Could this contribute to the use of public transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u93	Mr President! True, as Mr Modig said, Norway is considerably longer in electric motoring, but, as Mr Modig well knows, Norway is much longer in oil pumping than in Finland, and this economic mobility, which Norway has, makes it possible to make quite different contributions from the state to any good thing. In that respect, we are not in an equal position. But I would like to stress again: in 2030, the goal is 250,000 electric cars. It is a truly significant paradigm shift, and when it starts, the development is staggering. I would like to remind you that the state budget for next year will have a budget for the promotion of electronic transport, that is, there will be an effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u94	And, Minister Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u95	Mr President! A number of representatives have spoken about the need to speed up the action to be taken. In transport, the speed is precisely that the renewable component is mixed with all transport fuels, so that nearly 3 million cars on the roads in Finland can get their emissions down. If we consider that, thanks to the ambitious blending legislation that Mr Pekkarinen has decided on in his time, we have already had more than 10% of fuels as a bio-component in some years, this means that we would have 300,000 completely emission-free cars compared to the fact that there are now just under 2000 electric cars. That is precisely the blending obligation that we have been able to achieve so far and that we will be able to quickly drive down emissions over the next 10 to 20 years, while giving room for the growth of electric cars, a boost to it. And I believe that the market may turn to electric cars more quickly than we can imagine, so that this objective may prove to be too low.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u98	The case shall be suspended. The debate will continue at this session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u99	We shall now proceed to the third reading of this item, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue and the maximum duration of the speeches will therefore be 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u100	Mr President! Rapid action is needed to stop climate change — now. The main objective is to achieve zero total emissions. The objective is not to compromise so that polluting activities can continue for as long as possible and that emission reduction solutions are not fully implemented. The goal is to stop global warming. It is the task of the state to direct the whole of society, the entire public sector and private business towards effective climate action, not just to hope for it. Mr President! Over the last few weeks, there has been a great deal of noise that the final distribution of the European Commission's emissions and the inclusion of the agricultural and forestry sectors in the fight against climate change would pose major risks to our nation as a whole. Mr President! The greatest risk is the acceleration of global warming. We now need to make decisions that will lead to the best outcome for the entire world’s living conditions. Forests and their carbon stocks from the atmosphere are slowly renewable in Finland, around 60 to 100 years. We can't wait for that time. The felling targets must be set in reasonable proportions. It is important to use our forests for long-lived and high-processing products, such as wood construction. Forest energy is also needed. However, the government is already basing itself on it too strongly and is driving chips in the EU where EU Member States would not have to compensate for the reduction of carbon sinks by cutting emissions from other sectors at all. It doesn't make any sense. This is what nearly 200 scientists in environmental and climate sciences said this week when they called on EU ministers to avoid fully watering down the climate impacts of forest felling and land use. Carbon neutrality by 2045 means both a rapid reduction in emissions and a strengthening of carbon sinks, not a further 20 years. Mr President! When the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change came into force in 94 C.E., I prepared for the next spring matriculation examination of the future of the earth in my mind. When the Kyoto Protocol on the reduction of emissions entered into force in 2005, the world seemed to have hope. I was expecting my firstborn. In order for the countries of the world to now remain within the targets agreed in Paris in 2015, in order to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees in relation to pre-industrial time, nothing mediocre is enough. According to Sitra, the Finnish Fund for Independence would require a reduction of at least 130 per cent of Finland’s emissions by 2050 compared to the level of 90. The new contributions must correspond to the highest possible target level. We have promised that cooperation here will be based on transparency and must not water down the emission reduction targets. We are. In Paris, they promised me this. Mr President! Many of us also make promises to our children. Many of them have been heard in the speeches made in this Chamber today. I've promised to do my best, too. In 2050, when emissions and sinks must be in balance to prevent a climate disaster, my children will be 45, 43, 40 and 34 years old. I'm probably a 74-year-old who's retired. Mr President! Let each of us in this Chamber do our best to safeguard our common earth and the life prospects of mankind. Let's do the future now. We are responsible for our share, no less.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u101	Mr President! It is now 11 years since Sir Nicholas Stern, former Chief Economist of the World Bank, published a report telling us that climate change mitigation will become incomparably cheaper than letting it go. This report has caused many companies, including large international companies, to wake up to the fact that this is a real issue, and also to the economists of many governments. It is now 10 years since the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) published its fourth report, the main message of which was that the scientific dispute over climate change is over: there is no explanation for the changes that have taken place in recent decades other than the emissions caused by humanity. It is now five years since the World Bank published the Turn Down the Heat report, according to which today we are going to a world four degrees warmer where climate change has become disastrous for societies. In Finland, too, such climate change can undo all our dreams and ambitions. It is almost three years since the governments of the world reached an agreement in Paris that climate change must be contained below 2°C, closer to 1.5°C. The same governments stated that the combined emission pledges of the world countries are not enough to achieve this, but that all countries must tighten up their emissions targets until then. This also applies to the EU. This was signed by the same Sipilä government that is still sitting. During the same government, we have experienced two successive hottest years of measurement history, the year before which was a record year. In spite of all this, the medium-term climate plan, KAISU, is still showing the attitude that the government is more afraid of the cost of climate protection than climate change itself. Let us just do what we have already committed ourselves to in the EU, and that too is just a touch-up with all the so-called flexibility. The government does not say anything about what should actually be done to curb climate change to 1.5 degrees. When Finland’s independence was 50 years old, Sitra, the Finnish Year of Independence Fund, was established. Now, in the centenary year, the same Sitra advises us political decision-makers that reducing climate change to 1.5 degrees would require Finland to reduce its emissions by 60% by 2030 and move to negative emissions by the middle of the century, i.e. that in the middle of the century our carbon sinks are bigger than our emissions. The government report says nothing about this. Instead, the government is focusing on using all the influence of our country in the EU so that we can hide the decline in carbon sinks of forests resulting from the drastic, planned growing of fellings, which would undermine most of the emission reductions in other sectors. The government is doing this despite the fact that 68 Finnish researchers, our domestic climate panel, European Academy of Sciences and, most recently, nearly 200 top researchers from Europe and the rest of the world have warned of the impact of excessive felling growth on the climate and also on forest biodiversity. The Government report contains a large number of good and necessary things, but unfortunately not enough. In addition, the report, as well as last year's energy and climate strategy, is marked by too much reliance on forest biomass, biofuels and gambling by the fact that these will continue to be considered emission-free. Mr President! Let me remind you that we have a wonderful experience in the power of pioneering. Finland was one of the first countries in the world to open mobile calls to competition, without which Nokia’s telephones would hardly have been successful, which raised our country from the recession of the 1990s and has for a long time brought our country great economic benefits. As I watched the domestic climate debate, I wondered if this so-called Nokia miracle could ever have happened if, for example, the forest industry or the MTK had felt that the competition for mobile calls was contrary to their own interests. Mr President! Biofuels and biofuels have their place. They will continue to be needed. But biodiversity and the preservation of carbon sinks place limits on the level of responsible use. We now need to look and have faith in the future and have the courage to introduce means that force many established actors to change their operating models.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u102	Mr President! I'd like a representative here. As a follow-up to Mr Hassi's speech, I would like to take a look at this debate on diversity, which you raised and which is a very important topic, but which I may not have been able to see sufficiently what the government has also done about it. When it was examined how, in fact, the increase in felling volumes in the last parliamentary term could be achieved by somehow ensuring that forest biodiversity is met, the Finnish Environment Agency and The Natural Resources Agency reported that yes, the biodiversity of forests can be managed even though felling volumes are increased, but it requires, of course, measures. And such is the fact, for example, that the development of endangered forest species has been slowed down. It calls for better conservation of dead trees in fellings, the addition of some living trees in regeneration fellings, natural shelling, of course, the avoidance of logging from valuable natural sites and Metso funds
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u103	And then there is the reply, Mr Hassi, and then there is the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u104	Mr President! What the representative will do My corner listed, nothing at all, the fact that the authoritative and large teams of scientists I listed have warned of the increase in fellings of the size that the Finnish Government is planning and on which many plans supported by the government are based. Nor does it change the fact that this government has, in relative terms, made the biggest cuts in appropriations, on the one hand, in development aid and, on the other hand, precisely in nature conservation and protection of forests, which is one of the things that was first taken with the bucket and, then, little was given back with the spoon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u105	Mr President! This report is a broad package which complements the previous report on energy and climate policy, on which the Committee on the Future also gave its opinion at the time. I would like to comment on this report mainly from the point of view of the Committee on the Future. The basic message of the Committee on the Future has long been the need to turn the challenges of sustainable development into opportunities for sustainable employment growth. This means, among other things, a determined and long-term development of environmental business, cleantech, bio-economy and circular economy, as well as various ecosystem services. To combine employmentable growth and sustainability, we need creativity and bold pioneering, the Dazzles Policy programme, which translates the challenges of ecologically, economically, socially and culturally sustainable development into opportunities and a sustainable way of life for jobs. In the report on Agenda 2030, the Committee on the Future put it this way: "Agenda 2030 can be the most important decision of our time that will change the course of human development. However, the importance of this decision depends on the determination of the nations to commit themselves to the implementation of the action plan. That is why Finland and also the EU have a leading role to play and an active role in launching measures are an important example for the world as a whole." The plan now in the referral debate will certainly contribute to sustainable development, but it will not be enough, but the aim must be to set a precedent in which investment in sustainable development will turn into sustainable employment growth. In Finland, for example, solutions related to solar and wind energy, intelligent transport, photonics and smart electricity networks can be better taken into account in the promotion of exports and the objectives of sustainable employment growth, even if their weight on the Finnish domestic market is still very marginal. Finland also has significant export potential in a circular economy that uses waste. Export potentials must also be taken into account in education and science policies to maintain and develop knowledge. Mr President! The plan states that it has been carried out in parallel with the Energy and Climate Strategy, which was completed at the end of 2016, and thus implements the climate policy objectives of the Government Programme. The medium-term objectives should also take into account the measures of the 2030 Agenda and the 2030 Parliament Report. The key question is whether the medium-term plan will also implement the 2030 Agenda. Is it aiming at the forward-looking approach defined in the 2030 Agenda and contributing to policy coherence in sustainable development? Agenda 2030 targets are mentioned in the report in the context of reducing food waste, not much elsewhere. It is also mentioned that data on the follow-up to the report on climate change will be used in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, but should this medium-term climate policy plan for 2030 not be implemented under the 2030 Agenda of Action? Now this connection is becoming unclear. My question is: what does Agenda 2030 mean for the government, and what does it say about policy coherence? I hope that the committee will consider the links between these two programmes in greater detail, because it is very unclear here. Mr President! There are a lot of good things in the plan, and I particularly thank you for emphasising consumer-oriented action. After all, consumers are not only passive recipients of information and users of services, but a technological and energy revolution makes them active players in the energy market in many different roles: consumers, producers and even investors. Households have significant energy saving and efficiency potential: for example, heat exchangers, heat pumps, insulation and smart control systems have the potential to generate large savings in household electricity and heat consumption. In addition to laying foot on the citizens, municipalities and regions must take this issue on their own. Sustainable development and related climate policy must be brought into the strategies and policies of municipalities and regions. The concept of a carbon neutral municipality, or municipality of Hinku, is a good example of this. Mr President! At the end of the day: In the report under discussion, Nordic cooperation is mainly related to the development of sustainable transport. However, the needs and challenges of Nordic cooperation are greater. During the hearings of the Future Committee, experts stressed, among other things, the importance of developing and maintaining the Nordic electricity network as part of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u106	Mr President! Together with the energy and climate strategy already adopted, the report defines the means to achieve the climate objectives agreed in the Government Programme, the EU and the Paris Climate Agreement. The report focuses on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the burden-sharing sector, including transport, agriculture, heating and waste management. The report is also an important step towards carbon neutrality. Finland's long-term target is to reduce emissions by at least 80% by 2050 from 1990 levels. It is clear that efforts to reduce emissions must be fair, timely, economic and properly targeted on a global scale. The USA must also be committed to reducing emissions. Equally important is the simultaneous timing of emission reduction measures. In this way, we can as far as possible prevent carbon leakage, i.e. the relocation of industry, to countries where emissions are less or less penalised. As far as emissions are concerned, it would seem extraordinary if Finland had to reduce its emissions by 39% and Estonia had to cut its emissions by 13% and, for example, Poland and Croatia had to reduce their emissions by only 7% from the 2005 level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u110	Mr President! Today, when we deal with the medium-term climate plan, it is not really a question of how to make climate policy in industry or on the energy side; it is a question of what we all, everyone, can make in our own lives, decisions that affect the climate through our own consumption. When you think about the long curve, The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is soon to be two years away, and, for example, this debate we had, in fact, the Finnish guidelines when we live in a forested country in the middle of forests, and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change will be able to meet Finland's objectives and current guidelines perfectly by our actions, and we will also be able to provide many, many other countries with knowledge of renewable energy and knowledge of how to get rid of fossil fuels. Mr President! I was thinking of talking about transport first, because it is, however, the majority of the sectors outside the emissions trading sector, and every day we use traffic in some way. The fact that, for the first time, very significant investments have been made in electric cars, for example, shows that we are now moving from talk to concrete and putting millions of euros in order to electrify our fleet. But of course it's not enough. We must take swift action, we must do so economically, socially, in every way sustainable, ecologically, and it also requires that we be able to increase the obligation to mix biofuels, for example. Above all, there is no such battery technology for heavy industry and air transport. If you think that there is some kind of mixing obligation in the 25 EU countries, then in Finland it is quite ambitious, as in our neighbouring country Sweden too, and if you think of perhaps the most advanced regions in the world in climate issues, such as California, then San Francisco and Sacramento are probably Finnish. The main customers of the liquid are because they have decided to switch to 100% renewable fuels. As regards the importance of biofuels in Finland and the importance of biogas production potential and car conversion, this is particularly important in rural and sparsely populated areas. And it is not insignificant that large players, large companies, are also interested in investing in Finland. The fact that my own country is Chinese Kaidi is planning a large biorefinery, explains how the issue is so important globally that Chinese capital also seeks to enter Finland and is in the midst of the resources of Finnish technological know-how. There has also been a great deal of discussion about how much climate change mitigation and economic interests would somehow conflict. I do not think that they are in conflict if we act intelligently and take care of all kinds of sustainability. But we also need to think about what the climate minister, Mr Tiilikainen, said here that when our atmosphere does not know where the logging of forests, for example, is carried out, we need to see that it is done in such areas where forests are growing more and more than they are used and where, in fact, carbon sinks, carbon sinks are growing all the time. It does not make sense for a Finnish employee, Finnish industry or the Finnish economy to move those activities elsewhere where environmental sustainability is not at all of the same concern. Finally, I would like to say that everyone is also able to do climate action in their own housing and eating habits on a daily basis. The fact that waste food can be reduced is very important, and indeed the fact that cities, as was mentioned in KAISU, are able to switch to renewable energy. Frankly, I have been saddened to see how the capital of my own country, whenever I come here, is greeted by a pile of coal. In Stockholm, a long time ago, the neighbouring country has moved to 80% carbon-free. And in Copenhagen, another neighbouring country, too, invests in a completely new bio-CHP plant, whose investment was built by Finnish Valmet. This is good news from other neighbouring countries. Hopefully, Finland will also be followed in the same direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u111	Mr President! Representative Kulmuni said that in Finland forests grow more than they are being cut, but the Government's own climate and energy strategy aims to halve the carbon sinks of forests by 2030. Although we live here in the middle of the northern forests to which you yourself referred, we cannot achieve the Paris climate objectives if we do not comply with the carbon sink conservation rules of Paris' climate obligations. The question is that the rules must be globally sustainable, the same for all, based on actual emissions and the development of carbon sinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u112	Reply, Mr Kulmuni, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u113	As Mr Karimäki well knows, Finland's carbon sink, Finland's carbon stock will grow, but the fact that we increase fellings based on the decision of its forestry strategy for the previous parliamentary term means that a little time from the expected increase in our carbon sink will decrease but they will return. In fact, as a whole, they are growing. According to the latest figures, for example, Natural Resources Finland estimates that the carbon sink of Finnish forests would be between 20 and 30 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2030 and not, for example, 13.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, such as: The Natural Resources Agency has also previously evaluated. It is very important that Finland is able to have a forest industry, that it is able to have wood construction in Finland, and even those things, such as waste, which are not going there for wood construction or long-term products, must be able to use something in the name of a circular economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u114	Mr President! This is the first time I've ever been here. Nice to see you, this is a wonderful hall — and there are handsome MPs there. During the negotiations on the application of the EU climate agreement, Finland forgot its own programme. The Government is committed to the market-based implementation of the 2030 climate and energy package. International competitiveness of industry and the fight against carbon leakage are key elements of climate policy. The Commission's proposal cannot be implemented on a market-based basis and would jeopardise the competitiveness of our industry and would further accelerate the flagging out of Finnish industry in the EU, i.e. in Finnish: carbon leakage would increase within the EU, Finnish workers would be forced into a kilometer factory and would pay additional taxes and higher prices for petrol and electricity. As a result of the calmness of the previous two governments, the competitiveness of Finnish industry has already been sacrificed to the altar of EU climate policy at 30% in relation to the main competitor countries. This is one of the key reasons why we now had to improve our competitiveness through internal devaluation, a wage-lowering kiky agreement. This road has now been completed and Finland must defend the competitiveness of our industry at the EU climate table. The economic madness of EU climate policy continues and is worsening. Countries where emission reduction investments would be most advantageous aim to achieve minimal emission reductions. Countries with the highest investment costs aim to achieve maximum emission reductions. The True Finns have been the only political force that has tried to prevent this catastrophe. Emissions from Finnish industry, households, agriculture and transport are already minimal compared to Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and even Germany and Denmark. Why does the government not publish the actual price tag of its proposal? According to Pellervo’s economic survey, the price of district heating for residents will rise by about 40 per cent. On an annual basis, households will receive an additional EUR 400 to EUR 600 million, from EUR 800 to EUR 1200 million for industry. And on transport: according to the LVM's own estimates, it is EUR 800 million per year. Mr President! According to the calculations made by MIT, one of the best universities in the world, the measures announced in Paris would slow down the estimated global warming by 0.2°C by 2100.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u115	Mr President! Many winters have been low in Southern Finland. Ski season is short and children's snow games are short. Hurricanes Irma and Harvey have wiped out widespread destruction in America. Their human need is great, and the cost of rebuilding billions of people was left behind. Yet mankind is slowing down in the fight against climate change. I wonder if the wise lessons of Stern's report have been forgotten. Climate change must be combated as early as possible. Otherwise, it will cost a lot of money. One question of fate is the implementation of the Paris agreement on climate change. As a new step, the agreement will bring global protection for carbon sinks. Forest sinks need to be grown, not reduced. The actual climate impacts of land use must be taken into account in determining the reference level of forest use. Countries should not be able to set national reference levels on their own, as it is arbitrary and globally unsustainable from a scientific point of view. The calculation rules must be based on the actual evolution of emissions. But the Sipilä Government plans to halve the carbon sinks of Finnish forests by 2030. Many forest and climate scientists have expressed concern about the government's oversized bio-energy targets. As they materialise, climate emissions will not decrease in the next few years and biodiversity will be threatened. As a high-tech country, Finland can promote green technology, the production of long-term wood products and increased wind and solar energy. Sustainable bioeconomy is also part of the solution — within the limits of moderation and sustainability. Greening cars cannot be based solely on biofuels, but additional support is needed for electric and biogas cars. The Government's energy and climate strategy does not propose rapidly effective measures to reduce the use of coal, and the government even intends to increase the combustion of peat. Carbon-neutral Finland is possible as early as the 2030s and the use of coal in heating must be discontinued as early as 2025. The Government does not propose concrete support for small-scale electricity production. The Green Small Energy Programme would boost biogas plants, geothermal heat and low solar energy production in farms. In particular, there is potential for the conversion of public buildings to geothermal heat, and solar energy must also be made an attractive alternative to housing companies, blocks of flats and terraced houses. It requires amendments to the Electricity Market Act and an extension of the household allowance. Climate work in municipalities is central. Invest in promoting walking and cycling and efficient public transport. More shifts and connections are needed for public transport and more rail traffic for cities and between cities. People's climate-friendly choices, such as recycling, must be made easy. Minister Tiilikainen mentioned food waste reduction as a key act of climate change. I hope that the Minister will promote the efforts adopted in the context of the food policy report to reduce food waste. It is appropriate to set numerical targets for reducing food loss in different parts of the food chain and to identify the need for renewal of food dates in order to reduce losses. What we eat is also essential for reducing climate emissions. The carbon footprint of vegetable proteins is much smaller than that of meat. A weekly vegetarian day in national schools would have a major climate impact. In the fight against climate change, it is a good thing for our children and their children to live on earth. There is no time to lose, as global warming of one and a half degrees will be achieved already in 2024 if emissions are not cut quickly. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an explanation for why the carbon sinks of forests should not be reduced either: we do not have time to wait for the growth of the growing stock when emissions have to be reduced today. Finland and the EU must cut emissions by 60% by 2030 in order to meet the Paris obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u116	Mr President! I do not know whether I heard it correctly, but I was left with enough regret to have to comment on this issue of coal. However, when the government is proposing a law prohibiting the use of coal, I would not be the first to criticise the government for not taking measures to prevent the use of coal. The first country in the world to ban it by law. On this biodiversity of forests, I would like to mention a very interesting Greenpeace study from the beginning of this millennium, 2000-2013. It compared the deforestation of the pristine forests in the north, and in this period the deforestation rate in Finland was 0.2 per cent. The same figure was 7.2 in Russia, 5.9 in Alaska and 4.5 in Canada. However, the forest industry moves to something when there is demand for products. We certainly do not want it to move away from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u117	Reply, Mr Karimäki, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u118	Mr President! The government's objective of abandoning coal is important and worthwhile, but it has progressed very slowly. The government has done nothing about it so far, and the use of coal has increased by 3% since the beginning of this year. This is truly regrettable when we have had two years to prepare the law and bring it here for consideration. Unfortunately, forest biodiversity is dwindling rapidly. Scientists have reported the sixth extinction wave. In particular, decay-dependent species are suffering, and genetic variation between populations is threatened when the areas are small and fragmented. Here in Southern Finland in particular there are very few natural, protected old forests, which is why the Greens present significant additional contributions to the procurement budget for nature conservation areas, including the budget for the coming year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u119	Mr President! It seems that all but the Finns have stumbled on that green thread and everyone seems to believe that Finland will save the whole world. But I think that you can hit and jump high, hit a hairless chest and say that you wash here — nothing happens. I don't care if we make a reservation about this Finland – climate change is irrelevant. Finland has the cleanest industry in the world in terms of emissions, and if it moves to Russia, it can be made a hole the size of Finland — that is, all the trees — and then the disadvantages may come. But that is something that the Green Left does not care about, because it wants unemployment and misery here, and then comrade populism and green populism bite right here. In the Government Programme, it was agreed that the basic Finns' demand was that: Finland participates only on market terms in the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. This was supposed to mean that Finland will not enter into burden-sharing or support packages for energy production. However, Finland accepted the emission obligations of the EU's most polluting countries, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, because otherwise they would not have ratified the Paris Agreement and the EU would have been excluded. Mr President! This solidarity means an additional EUR 500 million for Finnish households and EUR 800 to 1200 million for industry on an annual basis, according to Pellervo’s financial research institute. Expensive for Finnish employees and entrepreneurs such agreements. And the additional bills will not remain here, because the central-driven government, on the basis of the climate agreement, is planning to carry out the transfer of billions of euros to private operators. How they are close to the decision-makers! For example, we are looking for a new aid package of around EUR 1 billion for wind power, which will be in addition to feed-in tariffs of between EUR 2 and EUR 3 billion. Finland therefore adopted the emission shares of Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. Is there any bold investigative journalism in our country that would expose this structural corruption? It is interesting to note now that the parties in the government before June agreed that even the drafting of renewable energy support packages will not be started until the health studies of wind power infrasounds have been carried out. It's only stage one that's come true. It is only phase two that will determine whether the infrasound has caused the symptoms of those living near the wind farm or not. Is this the basis of values and morals in the government now that it does not even follow its own decisions when it rushes to distribute billions of euros to its own good brother network? Where do we cut out the extra billions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u120	Mr President! It's great that representatives Savio, Hakkarainen and Mäkelä, the Finns of Finland, are here so they don't have to talk to empty walls. It would always be good to have a plan for the future. Today's topic is the climate policy plan for 2030. Clear objectives help to make things and decisions in the right direction, including in the policy field. The Government's Action Plan "Finland for Sustainable Development" aims at better social justice, a more environmentally friendly future and a more sustainable economy. Sustainable development is a hugely important theme. We must try to find environmentally friendly solutions, but at the same time we must take care of the wheels of the economy and the well-being of people. The previous sentence summarises the views of the Finns on energy and climate policy very well. Sustainable development must be focused on the national interest. In this respect, Finland must be wary of large-scale climate policy projects in the EU region, so that we do not swallow particularly harmful proposals. We Finns are in favour of strengthening the use of domestic energy sources. For example, peat and wood are key pieces of Finnish energy policy. It is justified to strive for the highest possible level of energy self-sufficiency. Nor can the importance of domestic energy sources be sufficiently emphasised as a security of supply factor. As regards the renewables of energy sources, good planning makes it possible to make convenient use of domestic natural energy sources. In the case of various energy-related subsidies, the position of Finnish traders must be defended. The aid must not lead to a biased distribution of different energy production methods. With regard to greenhouse gas emissions, replacing existing fuels with renewable biofuels is a sensible policy, and in this area Finland has expertise at a good level. The Finnish cleantech sector has developed in recent years by leaps and steps, and Finnish companies must be encouraged to seize the business opportunities linked to climate policy. Electric cars are the future, and in the future, we will be happy to produce electric cars at the Uusikaupunki car factory. There will be jobs for Finns and exports will pull if there is demand for electric cars. Electric motoring and other more environmentally friendly mobility must be promoted, but in this area too much should not be done, for example, by allocating excessive taxes to Finnish motorists or by cutting kilometric compensation on the basis of environmental protection. Mr President! Globally, population growth, especially in poor countries, continues. Nor can the earth endure this development indefinitely. There are huge numbers of people dying of hunger every day. There is talk of climate change; emission reductions should be the responsibility of each country. Some countries in Europe are also free passengers in this area. Finland assumes its responsibility in climate policy, but we cannot put on our shoulders the obligations of others. Representative Immonen also raised the issue of wood construction in his speech. Finland could really be a model country for wood construction. Similarly, the talk by the Group of Finns of Finland highlighted the importance and role of agriculture in our country. Finland’s agriculture in terms of emissions is often heavily accused. However, for our agriculture, very good reforms have often been made over the last few years, including with regard to our water systems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u121	Mr President! With regard to this climate policy, our problem with these commitments, which we have made, is precisely this starting point, which Finland has already had quite well in advance. Now that we are going to implement stricter emission standards, we are in particular in the transport sector. With any knowledge of the matter, it sounds impossible for any realism to achieve those goals of transport emissions, because the fleet of cars that we are currently buying as new is only halfway through its life cycle in 2030. For example, we can talk about giving up diesel, but we will not give up diesel until 2040, even if we do not sell any diesel cars today. If, as of 2020, an electric motor, or hybrids, is installed in all cars by a manufacturer, that means that the car fleet has only been renewed over decades. The technology of electric cars is expensive, semi-manufactured and it is questionable how environmentally friendly it is throughout its entire life cycle. On the other hand, where would hundreds of thousands of electric cars come from when they are so expensive that only a small part of the population can afford to buy new ones and when used they are not on the market? There are certain doubts as to how this battery technology will last, for example, after 10 to 15 years even to recycle those cars when used for new owners. However, Finland is a country of long distances where a car is a necessary commodity. It is a prerequisite for mobility and work, and without it we have no money for environmental protection either. These are the conditions that we must preserve for Finns that we can use cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u122	Mr President! Energy policy is very important for Finland's industry, economy, development and must continue to be managed sensibly and economically. Mr Hakkarainen has just mentioned, among other things, the feed-in tariff for wind power. This feed-in tariff has unfortunately cost taxpayers a great deal of money over the years. Fortunately, it has fallen slightly, but its level is still EUR 83 per 50 cent per megawatt hour, and this, despite the fact that wind power is a highly uncertain source of energy. In the Government Programme, it was decided to limit the feed-in tariff quota to 2500 megavolts, but this quota will continue to cause an additional bill of hundreds of millions of euros for citizens, taxpayers, for years to come. As Mr Hakkarainen has just said, the government is still planning new subsidies for the production of renewable energy. Mr President! Unfortunately, the impact of wind power on the public has also been underestimated. Many people feel that they have fallen ill, that they are suffering from health problems in the areas of wind power production. For years they may even have been laughed at, at least their problems have been underestimated, and this has caused people with symptoms a great deal of pain. However, the True Finns take these people’s problems seriously, and we call for a large-scale, impartial analysis of these effects of the infrastructure, especially on health. Mr President! Finally, it is clear to me, of course, that new technologies need to continue to be developed, but they must continue to be market-based, not based on social support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u123	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u124	Mr President! We are now dealing with the second amending budget of the year and it is dealt with in much better feelings than the previous ones that have been made here. According to VM's forecast, economic growth will reach 2.9% this year, and this economic growth, which is, could be said, strong and wide-ranging, is now reflected in the fact that we are raising the overall revenue estimate by around one billion, slightly over, and this again means that the need for borrowing will be reduced by about one billion, which is excellent news. The background is the increase in the tax estimate to 1.35 billion, where the biggest items are found: EUR 810 million in the corporate tax estimate and EUR 200 million in inheritance tax and gift tax. In addition, the value added tax estimate will be increased by EUR 158 million and the car tax revenue will be increased by 32. These are, of course, excellent news from the point of view that this is about growth on the one hand, but on the other hand, about the need for debt reduction on the other. A billion less debt is a huge sum when you think about what that billion will be able to do for the services of Finnish people in the future. But perhaps the biggest single thing in this amending budget is to increase and secure the level of funding for veterans. I believe that in this Chamber we have a very strong consensus that the veterans who fought for the independence of this country deserve valuable and good care in the last years of life and are guaranteed it. Parliament made its solemn decision, and together we decided to add EUR 20 million to the home care services of veterans for 2017. According to the original budget, the appropriations for the rehabilitation and open services of veterans amounted to EUR 41 million for this year, but when Parliament decided in its wisdom, it required the government to monitor the adequacy of the appropriations allocated to the rehabilitation of veterans and to the services to be taken home, the functioning of the services, and that the government should take action if necessary to enable all veterans to access the services intended for them. Based on a study by the Treasury, it has been shown that the budget allocated for this year will not be sufficient for all veterans in need of services, and therefore an additional budget of EUR 11.6 million is proposed for the rehabilitation of veterans and services to be taken home, with around EUR 3 million allocated for the rehabilitation of front veterans and around EUR 8.5 million for services supporting the home of veterans. Mr President! We're here to pay the debt of honor. I think this is an extremely important issue, and I am proud that Parliament has taken this solemn decision together, and I say that the government is doing the task that Parliament has given it here, ensuring that this money is sufficient to carry out the most important services, namely the services that the veterans bring home. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u125	If the Minister of Finance's speech gives rise to a small debate, there is now an opportunity to do so. I would ask those of you who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u126	Mr President! It is great that tax revenue estimates are rising and will, of course, have an impact on debt-taking. I hope the government will also consider the partial use of these funds to combat inequality. It is also great that the Government invests in the home services of veterans. A bit of concern is that after this jubilee year, I wonder if a rough week is coming, because in next year's budget, the government will reduce the total number of veterans by 42 million. Do you think this jubilee year will end with the beginning of a harsh weekday and the total funding of veterans going down by EUR 42 million? I would like to ask the Minister for a comment on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u127	Mr President! I guess there hasn't been such a positive amending budget in a long time. Tax revenue is now estimated to increase by more than one billion, and correspondingly, net borrowing can be reduced by roughly the same amount. The fruits of economic growth are reflected in the strong growth of corporate tax. This may even exceed 3% this year, and these corporate tax estimates are still rising. All in all, this budget is great news for Finland and all of us, who have been in the recession for a long time. Many tax revenues are on the increase. In addition to the corporation tax, the estimate of revenue from VAT, transfer tax and car tax will be raised in this amending budget. Of course, it is very important to add this to the rehabilitation of front veterans and home services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u128	Mr President! My father, who spent five years in the war and died a couple of years ago, became bitter — not because of war, but because he heard on television a prominent Turkish politician who was not an orphan say why you went there. Today we can spend our 100th birthday for why we went there. I would like to thank the other Turku politician for preparing the matter in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u129	Mr President! The Government's additional financial projections state that central government finances are growing rapidly and this is also reflected in tax revenues. This is a good thing. At the same time, however, the government is proposing new cuts in its budget for low incomes, such as the EUR 30 million cut in general housing allowance, which is just about the lowest income. Minister, will you continue to insist, among other things, on the new cuts in housing allowance, even if the economic situation is a new option?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u130	Mr President! Finland 100 years of independence — it is a wonderful, wonderful thing to celebrate. The sacrifices of our war veterans will be well known. What kind of country would we have without their input? We all know it's not better. It is very good that there will be additional funding for the services and rehabilitation that will be taken home. But the reality is that yesterday, when the veteran organizations visited again — they come every year — they said that this money, which is now promised, is not enough to provide adequate services. Now there's a bill waiting for you. I therefore hope that a large number of Members will sign their names in order to eliminate the percentages of disadvantages that prevent everyone from getting all the services they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u131	Mr President! It is very important that the economic transition has finally taken place. As we can see from this draft amending budget, almost one billion will be able to increase tax revenue. [Column Group : Over! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u132	Mr President! The good rate of economic growth is not, as we know, solely due to the current government, but government policy has had its own stabilising and growth-supporting role. We see that the line of work demanded by the coalition and followed by the government — i.e. support for work and entrepreneurship, including through taxation — works and tax revenue increases. Thus, tax revenues are increasing even though tax reductions have been made, as economic growth brings more work and thus increases tax revenues. It is therefore good that next year the taxation of employees — ordinary employed, hard-working, middle-income employees — will also be reduced and offset by the tightening of charges. This way, Mr Rinne, when we get employment forward, we also get income from inequality
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u133	Mr President! It is great that tax revenues have increased and that the economy is doing better than forecast. It can now be seen that as a group of people, students are the one who has now been cut most of all in recent years and whose income in euros has declined most. However, there is now a new proposal to cut the housing allowance, which is about to make additional cuts to housing support, which would be particularly targeted, and I think it would also be rather absurd for the group of people living together, often young people and students. It is also questionable whether this will ultimately even result in savings for the state budget if young people and students switch from living together to studios and then demand for studios will increase, the pressure on rent will increase further and the need for general housing allowance will increase. So now that the economic situation is so good, could these additional cuts in student housing support not be cancelled?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u134	Mr President! In the second amending budget, it is of particular importance that this decision of the centenary year should be accompanied by an additional allocation for the rehabilitation of veterans. Especially when their numbers are falling significantly now because of their high age, it is understandable that these other funds are needed less, but for those who are left and have reached a long age, we are investing now and the debt of honour we owe them is paid. But, Mr President, with regard to this general housing allowance and this housing allowance expenditure, I would like to point out that, in particular for students, when a good decision has been made to transfer students to the general housing allowance, it is precisely for low-income students — it seems that the majority of students — their cash in hand, the money in the account during their studies and the support from the state — that is bigger than in the past, especially in relation to this housing allowance. Although this kind of measure is now made in this context, so students will receive more support —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u135	At this point, I would like to respond to Minister Orpo if he had anything to say. Let us continue with the debate for a while, not for very long, there are not many answers on the list anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u136	Mr President! First of all, it is good that Parliament is so strongly in agreement with this additional allowance for the rehabilitation of veterans. This is a matter that needs to be dealt with. Mr Rinne asked about these extension years. I believe that the spirit of the solemn decision is that and the will of Parliament is that these matters will also be dealt with in the coming years. It is known that the number of veterans of our wars and our heroes is falling at a rather dramatic pace at the moment. That is why this budgeted amount is calculated to fall. But I think that from now on, both the government and Parliament should assess annually the real need for the spirit that already exists in the 100th anniversary decision to be realised. I think this is the spirit that has prevailed in this house. Then I would like to continue to point out that, although the economy is growing very rapidly, which I am extremely pleased about, next year's budget will continue to be built on a loan of EUR 3 billion. This year's budget for borrowing could now be reduced by one billion, but it still stands at 4.4 billion. It's a huge amount of money, considering that our children will then pay them back. Unfortunately, therefore, this is not the time to cancel the savings. If we start to cancel the savings, then we will remove ourselves from the strict and responsible fiscal policy line by which we are in a position to reduce borrowing. This is not only due to economic growth but also to efforts to curb public spending. In the case of the housing allowance changes referred to by Mr Yanar, the intention is precisely that changes to the housing allowance system would also curb the huge increase in housing allowance expenditure that we have seen over the last few years — housing allowance expenditure of EUR 2 billion. At the same time as the government took this structural decision on this housing allowance scheme, it was decided that for the most low incomes this would be compensated for the rest of the way. I think we've liked this and we've got to stick to it. With regard to students, it is noteworthy that when students moved from the student housing allowance system to the general housing allowance system, this decision was taken with the idea that it is cost-neutral. However, according to my memory, it increased expenditure by EUR 50 million, and I see that it has nevertheless been in the best interests of the students. It has been a very good decision for students and their organisations. But maybe in conclusion, we have to hold on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u137	If necessary, I will give two or three replies, if any. I can see that those present have a real speech here, almost all of them. I will give you the answers. I would now ask those representatives who insist on using the reply in this context, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u138	Mr President! This second amending budget shows that the Government's line of work is being dismantled. Even Mr Rinne will probably no longer want to see a turnaround when tax estimates can be raised by EUR 1 billion and the need for debt is reduced by about EUR 1 billion. However, I would remind Minister Orpo that at the end of the year the government debt will amount to EUR 107 billion. It's an expensive bill for our children. It is important for the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party that there has been a turnaround in the economy, but also a turnaround in the fact that the Minister of Finance listens strongly to Parliament's wishes. We've heard our statement. It is wonderful that there will be $11.6 million in funding for the rehabilitation of veterans, and it is particularly important when veterans age that this comes to the services to be taken home. Thank you for that. We are following this closely in the Committee on Budgets, and it is important to assess that every veteran receives the services he deserves. Thanks to them, without veterans, we would not celebrate 100-year-old Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u139	And I can see that Mr Yanari has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u140	Mr President! Of course, debt reduction is important, but the fight against inequality must not be forgotten. And, as I have just pointed out, these new cuts in the general housing allowance proposed by the government are most painful for low incomes and, in fact, through the standard of part-time housing, especially for students living in cellular dwellings, that is to say, the group whose basic income has already been cut big.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u141	I will give the floor to the representatives of Juvonen and Heinonen, and then turn to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u142	Mr President! Here, the general explanatory statement of the supplementary budget states that growth in private consumption will continue to be supported by an increase in employment. I'd like to ask you, Minister, a little bit about this. One of its underlying ideas was that it creates jobs. Is there any idea of the way in which jobs have been created and, in fact, of the way in which the extra 24-hour working time will then be used at the workplace? Thank you for remembering war veterans, front veterans. That is a very important issue. All the money that is being allocated to them they have earned. However, the concern now is that, although this money has been given, the services will not be delivered. So now, for example, I have been informed by myself that there is no provision of services. It would be desirable to have enough money for the rest of the year and to send the message to the municipalities and cities to ensure that the services are available and that the people who provide the services are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u143	In order for everyone to have an answer, representatives of Heinonen and Jarva, and then cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u144	Mr President! To this veteran situation. This is a clear change in the way the budget has been made in the past. If you now look at the way this year is being done, it is being done here that, when it seems that money is not enough, it will be increased in accordance with the impetus of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and the budget statement approved by Parliament. It has been agreed that if money is not enough, it will automatically be increased. And that is what the Secretary of Finance, Orpo, is doing at the moment. How does he work on next year's budget? He does things differently than his predecessors. In his day, it will not be cut but will be brought to a close the amount proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. So the calculation they have made as experts has been respected. If that is not enough next year, then again we will respect this Parliament's solemn decision and increase the money so that every single one of us
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u145	Mr President! Still on this housing allowance. Indeed, it is worth noting that in the past students have received this housing allowance as part of the study grant and the amount has been about EUR 200 at maximum, and now, for example, in Helsinki, it seems that the maximum allowance that you can now receive in part-time housing, i.e. in these groups, seems to be EUR 324 in the future, EUR 315 in Vantaa. So the students are really getting... After all, housing costs have been the biggest item of expenditure for students, so that good in this change, this change in the overall system, is precisely that students will receive more housing support than before. After this change, which is now being made, there will certainly not be so much support, but the total amount of money available to students will increase now, from August onwards, and now in this housing allowance system the low-income students will actually win and have more money left in their account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u146	And the minister, one minute, from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u147	Mr President! First of all, it has been a challenge in these cases to take the services of veterans to them, that they have not all been found, and they have not been able to provide them. In this regard, municipalities have been encouraged, especially in the last few years — and especially now — to do everything possible to ensure that these veterans of our wars actually receive these services. And since they have been found and brought within the scope of the services to which they are indeed entitled, this need for funding is increasing and has been met with this amending budget. Then there's this other thing, a little pain, briefly. In due course, more detailed calculations will then be made from researchers as to what has been the impact of kiky on the increase in the number of jobs, but I think it is quite clear that kiky has genuinely improved the competitiveness of our exports, and when our exports started out in a broad and strong way towards the end of 2016, it will certainly be an explanatory factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u148	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u149	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for that reply. You answered about the pain I was asking about. In reality, however, the message to us decision-makers is that the money available to the private economy has not necessarily increased. Maybe it doesn't feel like there's money in there to spend. And that is why only — when this introduction refers to the continuing increase in consumption and the increase in employment — questions arise as to whether jobs have actually been created, how they are recorded, how they are measured, how many people, for example, are involved in labour market training, and how it shows whether there is work or not. The situation of veterans is really worrying at the moment. I wonder if everyone — here, Mr Lehti told me about his own father who was in the war — experienced war in some way not a veteran, whether it was the little boy, the little girl who has experienced the bombings of war. I think that they too should be given even more attention in the future, so that they are also directed and provided with services, in a way the door is open, because the traumas and thoughts of war will follow for the rest of their lives. We should all also make sure, as municipal decision-makers, that we send a message to the municipalities, to the cities that those services are actually delivered to, to the home, and that there are resources for those who take the services: workers are employed there, rehabilitation staff and home assistants are employed there, so that this good goes where it is meant to be. Finland is 100 years old, and certainly we would not be here if young men had not sacrificed their lives to ensure that we have a free and good country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u150	Mr President! The economy is growing. The latest forecast is 2.9 per cent, and the employees' research institute actually predicted an increase as high as 3.6 per cent this year. For the first time in seven years, this growth is now widespread, and it is also reflected in an increase in employment, and the conditions for growth in exports are also improving. This proposal increases the estimate of revenue by more than one billion and, of course, it also means that borrowing will be reduced by more than one billion for this year. These are good signals, and also the fact that the consumer's attitude, the positive economic situation, is reflected in the increase in VAT revenues, the increase in car tax revenues, i.e. people's consumption and confidence in the positive development of their own economy. As far as the rehabilitation of veterans is concerned, that is what I said briefly in the debat. This will now add the EUR 11.6 million which will ensure that every veteran will be able to access the services intended for them. The budget statement has been made in such a way that governments will continue to act in the same way as in this amending budget, that the money will be increased as necessary, and that is right. Congressman Elomaa, your bill is a good one. I myself have raised the same issue, and this government has now moved from 15% to 10% of this handicap. I fully agree with you that now we no longer need to look at the handicaps, but every honourable citizen would be on the same page. Let us hope that we will have the next joint decision, that we will no longer have to look at the handicaps of veterans and war-qualifieds, but promise everyone the services they need for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u151	Mr President! As I have already said in my reply, this additional budget reflects the success of the government's economic policy. Under the leadership of the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, there has been an economic policy which, on the one hand, has made the necessary expenditure cuts but, on the other hand, has sought to encourage work and entrepreneurship through tax solutions. This year there will be a billion more tax revenues than previously estimated. The government's economic policy is producing results. In fact, I dare to say that if, instead of this policy, there had been a policy of the Greens and the rest of the Left, which avoids spending savings but does not shy away from tax evasion, the results of economic policy would not be so positive at all. So, while I rightly admit that the government cannot take all economic growth on its side — the world around it and Europe of course — I am saying that there would not have been any risk of spending being cut, but that taxes would have been raised. Now they want to cancel the savings that have been made in this courtroom. We've been talking about students, we've been talking about housing support. As regards housing allowance,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u154	I would like to respond to Mr Marin and Mr Sarkkinen, although the situation is a little peculiar, because there is only one request for a list. This time, I saw it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u155	Mr President! In response to Mr Zyskowicz's speech, we are forced to comment that we actually have some research into the fact that housing subsidies do not so much increase rents, but there are other reasons for increasing rents. On the contrary, it is the cutting of housing subsidies that weakens the position of those who are currently receiving housing subsidies, that is to say, it can be said that, now that the general housing allowance is being weakened again by the government, this will be reflected in the deepening of the plight of these people. That is why we have constantly called for a change in the political course so that the situation of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable people is made easier, that these emerging economic growth opportunities are spread more evenly, and that we are finally starting to make a policy that would actually help people with low incomes,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u156	Mr President! Let's go over the facts: The new proposal in the opinion round to cut the housing allowance would cut the housing allowance for group residents in such a way that in the future the housing allowance for group residents would be 80 per cent of the housing allowance for single persons. This would particularly affect students living in cheap and good groups and force and drive them to move to the studio market, which could further increase the demand for studios and thus also the prices of studios and hence the cost of housing support. In other words, this cut is not only very unfair to students and group residents, but it is not necessarily economically sensible either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u157	Let's move back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u158	Mr President! There is no doubt that the economy is growing, but the reasons for this can already be a little more uncertain. In time, when the Finnish economy crashed, it was customary to do a devaluation. Now the euro in relation to the dollar: not only is the dollar traded in America but also, to a large extent, China's trade, in fact, almost all of it. Devaluation has depended on the exchange rate of the euro vis-à-vis the dollar. However, there has been at least 10% devaluation over a couple of years, probably closer to 20%. Among the international boom, Finland was the last country to participate in it. Those who are in business know that the order books are filled in in the places, in the companies, in the countries with the highest competitiveness in terms of quality and price. When Finland is the last one here, it does not promise a very good future. The dollar and euro exchange rates have tended to vary. It has been at its worst 0.80 and at its best 1.60, depending on which side it is viewed, i.e. one to two has already had a range. We've been in 1.04, now I think we're in 1.20, and for a long time we were in 1.40. The fact that Finland has now been involved means that we are on a rather wobbly basis and that we have little or no influence on the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar. We have tried to influence our own competitiveness through government measures together with the social partners, but the margin is in relation to what is the dollar and the euro, which of course applies to the whole euro area to which Finland is taking. Finland exports semi-finished products, equipment, machinery, which are then processed further in other countries and exported to the country of destination. Of course, at the time of the government program, the creation of 110,000 new jobs was a step in the right direction. But I think there is only one person in the Chamber who remembers a time when there was only structural unemployment in Finland, that is, unemployment due to students entering the market who have graduated, or other labour force who have decided to enter the labour market and which in a country the size of Finland and in a country such as Finland perhaps has 2, 3, 4 % of the labour force at most. After this typical situation in the '60s and '70s began to change, other unemployment arose, and it is worth asking where it came from and to whom it belongs or to whom it belongs. At present, according to these old formulas, we are likely to have about 600,000 people without work, of which 80,000 can be attributed to this structural unemployment group. It is a national failure which is a very heavy burden on this economy, on this industry, on this people who live in this country. In practice, it means that one way or another, however, these people must be fed, cared for and given housing and certainly many other services. If 400,000 people were employed from those who are now unemployed, Finland’s economic situation would be in surplus. We would immediately be able to shorten this EUR 100 billion loan at a completely different pace than these speculations are at the moment. Why is it not really such an objective that we accept structural unemployment but that we do not accept it? Yesterday, a letter was published in which Lasse Quality, an important negotiator on the employers' side, presented what a good system we have. However, this is not used in any other country as it is in Finland, and I have not noticed that trade unions have made very significant efforts to export it to other countries. In our rival countries, this has been dismantled. Germany dismantled this 20 years ago and made its labour market work, made its economy work and is a major engine in the economy and certainly the most important engine in Europe. We accept this as if we could view it as an acquired advantage or as one for whom nothing can be done. In reality, there is no labour market. The threshold for giving work has increased a lot over the last 40 years. It is also about the same for the worker in certain situations as for the worker, and in many cases he receives the same amount of benefits as he does otherwise in the form of income transfers, when many people think why I would work. Finland has fallen into serious problems, under pressure from them, and there does not seem to be a group in Parliament or in a government that would genuinely dare to take up this major burden that is weighing on the Finnish people. This is a very bad situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u159	Mr President! It's a veteran thing. The situation is that municipalities are still returning part of the rehabilitation money when veterans have not been caught. You have to invest in it and pick them up or take this information home to them. You have to invest in the staff that does this. Since the money is being returned, it will then not be given enough money again. That is a great deficit, and it has been presented by all the veteran organizations. Their average age is currently under 93 years. This means that this disadvantage rate is completely useless for such elderly people. There should be no obstacles to accessing services anymore. Just as Mr Lehti put it here, so was my own father at war, and that is why this matter is very close too. Many grandfathers have been at war so that I believe that everyone will probably think positively about things, but it still somehow offends that in the 60s, the 70s, the 80s they actually told these people who were there on the front that you went there. Some politicians have even said this. But those things have changed and they have taken back their words, which is good. I would also like to thank Mrs Heinos for her positive attitude towards this bill. I already noticed that Mr Kiviranta had already gone to put his own name on it, so that thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u160	Mr President! Mr Sarkkinen has to admit that I do not know the details of the proposal you presented in your speech, but I believe that if the students had still been covered by a separate housing allowance scheme compared to the fact that they have now become covered by general housing allowance, the students would have received millions of euros less than they are now receiving when they move into the general housing allowance and, for example, in the summer months housing allowance is paid in contrast to the old system. Then, Mr Marin's speech that housing subsidies do not raise rents: I too have seen and read about the limitations in these studies. It is quite clear that demand and supply have a very central impact on the level of rents, but the impression that when we pay around 2 billion taxpayers' money as housing subsidies, this would not affect the overall rent level is, in my view, absolutely scandalous. That's how much I understand about capitalism that if we support tenants' ability to pay rent on a 2 billion annual basis, then of course it will affect rents. I have read interviews with several tenants who say that this housing allowance will not help them, that this will only help Sato or Kojamo or whose apartment they are living in at any time. Congressman Lehti brought up a big picture, and it's good to remind you of it. However, I would like to stress that in the context in which Finland's economic policy is being implemented in practice today, the government has made the right decisions. If this tax policy of the Greens and the rest of the Left had won, it would not be in such a good situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u161	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to those who have long been waiting here for the actual speech, and only then will we have the debate later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u162	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the government for the second draft amending budget for 2017. Despite this positive economic development, we still have a deficit until the end of this decade, and due to the ageing population, Finland's financial position should be well in surplus from 2020. I wanted to remind you of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u163	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz took the floor just now by saying that he has not been familiar with the details of the matter, but has nevertheless commented. Through the standard of part-time residence, this cut in the housing allowance for group residents, especially those living in cellular dwellings, is unfair, and there is no way out of it. This is a really bad reform, which is difficult to explain by the rise in housing allowance expenditure. Is this the coalition reform policy that is so unequal? Moreover, if the Greens had been in the government, we would have reformed the economy, cut out inefficient corporate subsidies, reformed family-free, focused on ambitious education and research policies, and made sure that economic policy is not unfair.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u164	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is forced to say, in connection with housing subsidies, that, above all, rents have raised other reasons, such as the lack of housing in growing urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u167	Mr President! I continue to admit that I am not familiar with this group house, and I do not comment specifically on it, but that, in my view — and you can correct this if this is wrong — the overall benefit of students from moving from a separate housing allowance system to a general housing allowance is a plus. This is what I have in mind, but if I'm wrong, correct me. Mr Yanar, as far as the Greens' policy is concerned, it is true that your line during this parliamentary term has been that you are opposed to virtually all savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u170	Mr President! Once again, let us look at the consequences of transferring students to the general housing allowance. One of the reasons why it is problematic to assess the consequences is that they have been different for different students. I checked again the data published by the Federation of Finnish Student Unions that the housing allowance will be maintained or increased by approximately 120,000 students and the average increase will be EUR 59, which is less than what was cut on average per student when the study grant was cut. Then the surgery was closer to 90 euros a month per student. About 40,000 students lose support for housing altogether, lost this reform. They are thus affected both by the cut in the student grant and by the total loss of housing support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u171	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to inform you that the Italian President, Sergio Matarilla, and his party have arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of the Parliament, I welcome the distinguished guests to this house, the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u172	Mr President! There's been talk of housing production and housing shortages. It is true that housing prices are rising. Rents will rise if there are not enough apartments. Fortunately, however, it has now been possible to increase housing production during this government. Land use, housing and transport — MAL contracts — have been updated. They have also been made for the growth corridors. In the Committee on Finance's Housing and Environment, it has been well pointed out that this updating of the MALs has increased the supply of land. The supply of land has improved and construction has been mobilised. At the same time, one of the key points of deregulation has been construction, and it is also reflected here. Planning has been facilitated, but unnecessary regulation of construction has also been dismantled and has facilitated the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u175	Here, ladies and gentlemen, we have asked for the floor: Mr Hassi, Mr Paloniemi, Mr Marin, Mr Räsänen and Mr Andersson. Then, if there is any cause for further debatation, then we will have a short debatation afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u176	Mr President! I'm not sure if I can say this in two minutes, that's why I got in this toilet. First of all, this student housing allowance. Mr Andersson has already explained that Mr Zyskowicz is partly right. For a large number of students, the recent change has increased housing allowance, but there are also significant groups of students from whom it has taken the housing allowance completely away or weakened it. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which was the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this change in housing allowance, drew attention to this particular block house and stated that the concept of food should be clarified so that housing allowance does not lead to people who are willing to share housing — which is not just students but also students — making the structure of housing allowance impossible. After all, our household has traditionally meant the same thing as the family, and the law speaks of "permanently living together". This has been used, among other things, to the interpretation in Kela that people who live together, even if it is tied to a particular dwelling, will be interpreted as a single household if these people do not have a separate lease. However, families are groups of people who also live together normally when moving from one dwelling to another. For example, as Mrs Marin has already said, there is no point in the structure of social support forcing people to go to studios. Nor do I think it is reasonable for people to be interpreted as living together or as a food establishment to depend on whether there is a landlord who agrees to make a separate lease agreement with every resident. After all, these tenants are often between wood and bark. It would be advantageous for them to make a lease for each individual, but for the lessor it is more advantageous that there is only one lease and one main tenant. I hope this clarified this issue of housing allowance. And now that there has been quite a lot of shooting in the direction of the Greens, I would just like to say that we are the first parliamentary group which, even at the end of the 1980s, started to announce that we were always in the opposition when we had our own alternative budget, which showed where we were taking the money to compensate for the expenditure increases that we are proposing. We have therefore begun the practice which has since become a well-established issue of the fact that opposition groups are making their own shadow budget public. An excellent reform, which has taken place in the 21st century, is the availability of a parliamentary information service to review these calculations. But also this year the Green Parliamentary Group will publish its own alternative budget, and it will be, as always, an alternative budget that clearly shows where we would spend more money than the government proposes and where the money will be taken from, and whose background calculations have been revised in the Parliamentary Information Service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u178	Mr President! A few words about veterans. Fortunately, the rehabilitation and home service budgets of veterans have been increased over the years. That is a very important issue and, of course, we must continue to ensure that the money is sufficient. But I would like to say — when Mrs Elomaa said that there is a lot of money left unused — that I would remind you that the situation in different municipalities is very different and that this situation is no longer as bad in this respect as it was some years ago. I know that when I sit there in the negotiating council of the Front Veterans and, among other things, this issue has been considered there. But I would like to say that, in this case, service guidance needs to be stepped up in municipalities. It is up to the municipalities to find the veterans who need these services. And what do they want? They want family members to be involved in making their service plans, because veterans and their loved ones know best what kind of services veterans need today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u179	Mr President! I would like to thank both Mr Hassi and Mr Andersson for their excellent contributions. I hope that these, too, clarified to Mr Zyskowicz what is at stake. But in order for this group housing issue and the problems associated with this housing support proposal to be resolved, I forwarded to you a newsletter on the subject sent to you last week by the Federation of Finnish Student Unions. And I'm sure the president of the union, Riina Lumme, or the social policy expert, Silja. If any further questions arise, Silva can tell you more about this. This is a concern that is currently on the mind of the Federation of Finnish Student Unions and students, and hopefully this government proposal will be made more sensible so that we do not drive low-income students into deeper distress. But as far as Mr Heinonen's speech is concerned, I agree that it is excellent that a policy is currently being adopted in many growing urban areas and in many cities that has increased housing production and especially for those who are asked for and who are sensible from the point of view of housing policy. In Tampere, for example, the tram transport project decided by the City Council of Tampere, i.e. the construction of a tram in the city, will significantly support our housing production in Tampere. In it we can combine public transport and land use and housing policy in an effective way, and thus bring people together in affordable homes along good public transport connections and thus more widely supported by sustainable urban development — that is, when people move to growing urban areas, this growth can be taken over as sustainably as possible. Cities are currently making a good policy and it is certainly worth supporting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u180	Mr President! So let me repeat once again before the representatives of the government parties once again make their voice heard: It is therefore possible that there are individual students living alone who have benefited financially as a whole from this transfer to the general housing allowance, but it is therefore the case of persons living alone who are likely to have a relatively large dwelling, probably in the capital region. Looking at the situation of 120,000 students who thus benefit from this reform, Kela estimates that housing support has improved by an average of EUR 59 per month, which is therefore less than what the reduction in student funding means for students as a monthly loss of support. It was closer to 90 euros. Returning the standard for part-time housing to housing allowance is unfair and bad for two reasons. Firstly, it undermines the livelihood of students living in small dwellings, i.e. it is estimated that this cut would be over EUR 80 in Helsinki — i.e. more than the average of what students have benefited from this transfer — and over EUR 60 in other large university places, i.e. still more than the average of what students have benefited from this transfer to the general housing allowance. Above all, this proposal is absurd because it actually weakens the position of students living in a group of students as well as students living in small dwellings of less than 20 square metres. In other words, this change encourages students to move to larger studios in large cities, and that means, indeed, that as a result of this change, we are very likely to increase housing support expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u181	Mr President! I have actually been informed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health about this change in housing allowance, and indeed, in Helsinki, for example, an acceptable housing cost of about 15 square metres would be in this change... For part-time residences, this maximum allowance will be EUR 324 in the future, as the student has previously been able to receive a housing allowance of EUR 200 in the course of study support. In Vantaa, this maximum support will be approximately EUR 315 in future, when it has indeed been EUR 200 about what the student has received in the past. It is true that student money is being cut, it is true, it is one of the austerity measures in this austerity policy that has had to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u186	Mr Räsänen, and then, if there is any reason to do so, let us proceed with one minute's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u187	Mr President! To this speech by Mr Jarva: when you listened to it, you felt that now, as a result of government measures, the lowest-income students would then be on the winning side. But when you look at the report published today, for example, by Nordea's economist Kärkkäinen has done, he states quite clearly that it is precisely the lowest-income students whose annual income is falling by just under four per cent, or EUR 279, who are the most affected by this government's economic policy. So the fact that here now somehow the government of low-income students defends. By the way, the government's cuts in study social benefits have been a little bit like these crazy blankets, as we have already heard here. At first, almost EUR 90 will be taken out of student support, then some of the students will be returned as general housing allowance a little more, but a very large part will disappear now that this decision on housing allowance has been made, and this will mean that the student should move from a smaller cell dwelling to a larger unit, for example, when the total cost of our general housing allowance will increase. Then you have to ask what the point is behind this, but when you listen to the government’s speeches and now listen to this whispering, there will probably be someone coming up to tell you what the point is when you actually remember that these government decisions explicitly eliminate the lowest-income students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u188	And now, the debut phase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u189	Mr President! Once again, if the benefits — i.e. those students who have benefited financially — have benefited on average EUR 59 per month, then since then the cut in the student grant was about EUR 90 per month, then it does not look very rosy from the point of view of their low-income students. In addition, I myself am concerned about student couples, i.e. those who have now completely lost the right to housing allowance as a result of this change. We also have a lot of low-paid households, which are now assumed to be supported by one of the partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u190	Mr President! Indeed, 59 may be the average sum, but who are the winners there at the other end? They're low-income students. Since income now affects this within the framework of general housing allowance, as well as those couples and those living alone, is it not right that if a couple’s common income goes beyond a certain income limit, as in the case of the whole general housing allowance scheme, that state support will be less in support of housing? This is the general housing allowance system that has been fully supported by student organisations. Then there are also different estimates of how this has affected income levels. Now we have asked the Parliamentary Information Service for this information, how these have affected the different income levels of students. Then here we get that fact and then we can have this debate and then we can get rid of these false images.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u191	Mr President! Mr Jarva now clearly selects the decisions of the government he wants to talk about and does not want to look at the overall picture. [MarisannaJarva shouts]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u192	Mr President! I will come back to this overall picture and to the way in which government decisions then treat different people in different categories of income. It is great that new calculations have been ordered from the Parliamentary Information Service again. Probably even the new calculations are similar to the older calculations ordered by, for example, the left-wing parliamentary group, which have demonstrated quite well these revenue effects that this government policy has. I would like to return to this report, published today by economist Kärkkäinen, which quite clearly stated that the most low-income students have suffered most of all from this government policy. If it can be demonstrated that on an annual basis they will lose about EUR 280, then now I do not quite understand when Mr Jarva refers here to the idea that the lowest incomes would somehow have won in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u195	Mr President! I would like to make it clear that student organisations also raised concerns about the transfer of students to the general housing allowance. Samok, among others, made it very clear that they are concerned about how this affects, among other things, the 40,000 students who lose the right to housing support as a whole. Then I would also like to remind the representatives of the government parties that the transfer of students to the general housing allowance was financed by cutting the general housing allowance from all other beneficiaries, which does indicate a great deal about the commitment of this government to make a fair income distribution policy or to ensure the survival of low-income Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u196	Mr President! This is the first time I have read this report by Mr Kärkkäinen. I had not really been able to get to grips with this yet, but it is quite interesting that we are talking here about low-income students, who would have lost the most: there is still a reference here, as Mrs Marin has said in her speech, to a mere cut in student money in this context. It's weird. If improvements are made to other parts of the student allowance and one part is cut and if the whole is positive, I do not understand how it can be made negative if the money that comes into the person's account increases. For example, now from the beginning of August, when this change was made, the support of low-income students from the state — study aid plus this housing allowance — will increase the available money for those specifically on low incomes. Also, when discussing the student loan, there is no obligation to withdraw it. More is also available, but this calculation has been made without this share of the student loan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u197	Mr President! I am speaking here with the certainty of what ignorance of the details is at least capable of giving. That is the fact that the student allowance, to be precise, has been substantially cut, no one is denying it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u201	Mr President! I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that the whole family is determined and that the one who earns at the time of one's study also pays as much as he can for the student's expenses. At national level, you could say that the study periods are embarrassingly long also for the person who completed their studies. He gets into the labour market slowly, and in international competition he has fewer years of work, he easily gets second or third place. I am surprised that the study organisations are not paying attention to the fact that university entrance exams and so on take time, when in many countries the choice is made directly with the matriculation examination, so that it is easy to reach even a more rapid graduation time of one year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u202	Mr President! The representative, Mr Marin, accused the representatives of the centre of parliament that they only share the partiality — that is what Mr Marin seems to be doing. He did not say at all that this government will increase student financial support for family students. The maintenance increase will come next year, it will be EUR 75, and it will be a significant increase. Mr Marin kept his mouth shut about it, but we're here on the right side of the hall, on the right side of the board, we'll tell you about it. It is an important issue for family students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u203	Mr President! I described this overall situation from the students' point of view. There are some good reforms, as Mr Heinonen mentioned, and also some of the students from the point of view of this transition to general housing allowance has been a good thing. However, there are also interlopers in these changes: from the point of view of family students, there are problems, for example, with this change in housing allowance, or, for example, with regard to this so-called package of study aid to which Mr Jarva referred, there are also losers, and precisely because of the cut in student money. And now there is an ideological difference between the need to develop learning more in a loan-oriented direction — whether it is an improvement, as it were, that students should be allowed to raise more loans to enable them to live in practice — or whether student aid should, above all, be developed in this financial direction. I myself am in favour of this latter. There are differences as to whether this leverage is seen as an improvement or a weakening. I see it as a weakening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u204	Mr President! Indeed, when these speeches are so short, I did not remember to mention this in the speech, for example, that it was with this move to general housing allowance that a family student, for example, received an increase in the number of guardians. It was wanted to take account of this deficit that would have arisen as regards the livelihood of family students,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u207	Mr President! This is a very important debate. I would like to thank the representatives of the opposition for also defending the interests of the students. We must recognise the fact that students were also cut off. But on the other hand, there have also been improvements. What I am very much in favour of and what may be the answer to the situation of students in the future is a basic income experiment. It is an excellent thing that the government is going to do this too — the first government in Finland will ever do this. So it is good that we have a broad perspective on the social security system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u209	Then we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u210	Mr President! Obviously, how I understood this support for student housing was right, because at least now no one has presented any different ideas. So, if I understand correctly, this transfer will give students millions of euros a year more money to live than would have been supported in the old system. This does not undermine the fact that, as I said in my speech and admitted, the student allowance itself has been cut. Then there has been a very interesting debate here on this principle: whether the student's spouse's income should be taken into account when assessing his or her housing allowance. Now that students are covered by the general housing allowance system, the income of the spouse is affected, as is the case with all other citizens. Is this wrong? Well, certainly some students and others feel that it is so wrong that the spouse’s income is affected. Apparently, their idea is that the spouse’s income is intended for himself and then it is up to the taxpayer to take care of the housing costs of the student and the incomeless spouse. I see it quite differently. Its working spouse’s income is not only intended for him or herself, so that he or she spends the money, goes to restaurants alone to eat with that money and so on, but is also intended to support his or her neighbors, such as his or her spouse, if the spouse himself, for example, does not have any income because of his studies. This is probably an old-fashioned idea that the money is not just meant for itself but also for the good of its own neighbors and the family. But I myself will continue to stand behind this idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u211	Mr President! A rather important debate is taking place on the principle of what the income and what it costs in the family. Each family itself decides how to spend its money, but if we live together in a family, which principle is right: to take joint responsibility for the housing costs and that life together, or to impose an obligation on the state to pay for this? This is certainly an ideological debate which can happen for many years, but this is also the case in other families, and I do not understand why a student should be responsible for the shared life and the sharing of costs in this matter. But, as a big policy and as a big goal, the city centre also has the idea of getting rid of this complex support system on the social security side in the future and of making a comprehensive, major social security reform, where the income of students can also be rationalised so that it is also worth working, that it is also worth choosing whether, for example, you want to take out a student loan instead of having to do so much work. But full-time studies must be possible, and this transition to general housing allowance has also made this easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u212	Mr President! I will continue with a few calculations and how these changes, which the government has made, will affect the income of the students. I think that the increase in guardianship was a very welcome reform because it is important, structurally, to make the increase in guardianship part of our student support system. It will also provide opportunities in the future to raise it to the level it should be so that we can genuinely support low-income learning families. This time, the government decided to spend EUR 10 million on the separation of custody. The maintenance increase is therefore EUR 75 per student, which can once again be compared to this cut of almost EUR 90, which was made for student money. [MarisannaJarva shouts] If you look at how the government has spent any money to support students or low-income Finns, this student allowance cut was, as far as I know, the biggest single benefit cut this season, 112 million, if I don't misremember. 112 million was cut directly from the lowest-income population group in Finland when the government is ready to invest 10 million in the care-sharing increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u213	Mr President! Now that we have adopted such a general economic debate, I thought that I would now speak a little longer on the general economic situation, since the debate has not only been in this amending budget. That is why it is essential that there has been a clear change to what the situation was when, for example, the party represented by Mr Li Andersson was in the government. Then the country became heavily indebted. Today, action has caused and led to economic growth. These solutions have been difficult, but the economic direction has been reversed. After nine years, growth is wide-ranging. This year's latest forecasts indicate an increase of as much as 3%, The Finnish Labour Research Institute has predicted an increase of more than 3.6 per cent, and the Ministry of Finance revised its own growth forecast to 2.9 per cent. But next year the forecasts will be slightly weaker, and we will probably not be able to reach that employment target of 72% by means of these measures. We will, hopefully, get close to it, but in order to achieve that objective or an adequate target of perhaps 75%, we need more measures. But now the economy is growing, unemployment is falling and employment is improving. This government chose the line of work when it started. The tax burden on labour has been reduced, contrary to what the previous government did, which chose a line under the leadership of the then Minister for Finance, the Minister for Demari, to tighten taxation. The tax burden on labour has now been reduced and it has made work even more profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u216	Mr President! In addition to this overall good economic development, I would also like to return to these structural issues, which the government has been able to do despite the extremely difficult and painful economic savings that have been made. In this debate, when we talked a lot about students, there is no denying that, of course, students have also been cut off from student study money, but there have been two very important structural reforms that will make the status and situation easier for students, and hopefully they will remain there from one electoral term to the next, whoever was in the government during the next term. Students are finally moving to general housing support, which is widely promoted by student organisations for many years, and it will actually increase the amount of money spent on student housing at national level. Secondly, we have been talking about the separation of custody for a long period of time, and we are finally also going to have to raise the guardian. These are structural reforms. Perhaps in this ideological debate I would also like to raise the point that it is, of course, a pity that students have been cut, as many other groups have done, but during a time when a person is a student and low-income and there is hardly any money, it will also make it easier when there is no money, that the student loan can be taken out a little more and then make more money available while there is no money. As far as this housing supplement is concerned, the general housing allowance for transfer: It is rather bizarre that, on the left side of the hall, there is now concern that those students who have been on good income — even those who have been in this country — will no longer receive the housing allowance, but will be allocated to those who are the lowest-income students under the leadership of the central government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u217	Mr President! It was wonderful that this Parliament, led by all the groups, unanimously made a promise that if the money for the rehabilitation of veterans is not enough, it will be increased. This is how the government's proposal works: EUR 11.6 million for the rehabilitation of veterans and services to be taken home. This is great. A delegation from the Finnish Veterans' Unions visited Parliament in the traditional way, and I personally support the renewal of this promise next year and take it to the Blue Parliamentary Group. I believe that in this Parliament there may be a very broad common view. As far as this debate on students is concerned, we must also look at where we have left. My own 72-year-old mother has been wondering a little bit about the conversation she's having right now. When she left the Tornio River Valley from Pello to study at Ateneum in Helsinki, she did not have student financial aid and the terms of the student loan were so bad that it was not worth taking, and then we went to a small aunt's place to live and studied and worked with her. Now we have free education — I say free of charge, because free is not known to exist — student support, student loan on favourable terms, which is even worth taking, support student meals, comprehensive student health care and other good things, especially good things that no one in themselves opposes and which are financially motivated by state support, and this government has invested more in these. But that question for the left-wing opposition is: where does that limit go? They seem to have no limit on how much services can be added all the time, nor do they have any understanding of where we left Finland. This great situation has come out of difficult conditions, but the money must continue to be found. Without money we will not be able to provide these excellent services on a world scale for our veterans and students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u218	Mr President! Representative Heinonen well described the state of the state of the state of the state of the economy today. It contained some of the good features of how well the economy has started to improve in relation to the state treasury. In this way, when you look at the budget and this situation, you would have thought that there would be room for manoeuvre now to return to student study aid, to cancel these cuts in student aid and thus to invest in the future. When we talk about students, it is a contribution to the future and to what Finland will be like in the future. These people need to be encouraged to attend schools. I think it was the wrong line at this point that the student allowance has been cut. Now would have been a chance for the government to patch it up in this better economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u219	Mr President! This debate on students' study social benefits and then, more generally, the question of funding education has been somewhat troubled by the fact that first the bucket is taken and then the spoon is returned. That is the question, which I am sure there is a great deal of criticism about here. Representative My corner referred to precisely this distribution of income between students, who are now benefiting from this. This was the question I was going to ask, since now the latest studies show that although there has been an explicit desire to support all the most vulnerable students, it is precisely in that income category that the most people lose because of these government decisions. This was the question I was trying to ask why this has been done. Perhaps later we will come back to this subject. My second question is this: the speech that Mrs Elo has made here, which is entirely in order as such, but I would like to think that we are thinking about the future in a way that we are leaving this country in a slightly better shape for posterity than it was in the situation when we have received it ourselves. This is the idea of this policy that progress should be made. I would hope that, at least in the future, if we ever have another debate in this Chamber, we will not assume that there is nothing we can do about it, because it was never there before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u221	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u222	Mr President! This is a very welcome reform. This is something we've been talking about for a long time. Let me start by saying that I want to underline in the parliamentary minutes that I am no longer in favour of electronic voting, at least for the time being, for example on the Internet. In the past, I have supported electronic voting, including internet voting in Estonia, for example, but now I am not in favour of what has happened in the world following these events. But in a certain way, this performance is a bit patching it up. I myself thought that this electronic vote or an online vote would have been the answer to the fact that the Finns living abroad, regardless of their place of residence, could have been able to vote, but it is currently not safe and could possibly be influenced by foreign powers, for example, and that is why this vote by letter from abroad is very justified. I would like to use that right to vote in the run-up to the election, but that would mean, for me, first a train trip there, then a flight here and then uncertainty and waiting in line and everything else. That is why it is good that such an opportunity is offered to expatriate Finns. Their voting turnout is exceptionally low, in the 2011 Parliamentary elections of 10,6, in the 13.9th presidential elections last time and in the European Parliament elections of just over 4 %, and I know that there would be a lot more willing voters there, and that is why it is good to do so. There is also, in a way, the background to the fact that this is not being introduced in countries such as:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u223	Mr President! The Act amending the electoral law before us is very much to be welcomed and welcomed. This presentation fulfils the long-term wish of Finns living abroad, i.e. this presentation gives persons residing abroad and temporarily residing abroad the right to vote in letters in all general elections. The purpose of this vote is indeed to improve voting opportunities for those entitled to vote abroad. Today, foreign Finns are able to vote in Finnish diplomatic missions, and often the long, expensive and time-consuming journeys at the polling station, i.e. the practical reasons, many of them, can prevent voting even if there is a will to vote. Mr Heinonen's speech has already stated that voting turnout among Finns abroad has been rather low: we have been reading from 8 to 12 per cent. Indeed, the creation of the possibility of a letter vote guarantees more equal opportunities for Finns abroad to exercise their right to vote and also to influence the affairs of their home country. It is also positive that voting by letter has been estimated to reduce costs in foreign delegations. It is good that this proposal finally comes to Finland because, as many of us know, the possibility of a letter vote is available in most other European countries. In Sweden, the possibility of voting by letter has been seen to increase voting turnout, so the turnout has indeed increased. In my opinion, this is a kind of welcome democratic leap, which is a very important reform in terms of the realisation of democracy, when, in fact, this vote of letters is finally made available to the Finns. It is also good to say here, Mr President, that the number of Finns living abroad has been expected to continue to increase, so that more people will benefit from this reform. As a member of the Board of Directors of the Finnish Society itself, I have been actively among those MPs who, together and in cooperation with the Finnish Society and the Finnish Expatriate Parliament, have promoted this reform. This has actually been 17 years on the agency and in the resolutions of the Finnish Expatriate Parliament from one sitting to another, and it is good that this matter is now here in the Finnish Parliament's session. I note that, according to this bill, a person entitled to vote for a letter would order the voting documents from Finland to his foreign address and, upon receiving them, would vote and return his or her vote by post to the Central Election Board of his own municipality. The possibility of voting in advance in certain foreign missions in accordance with the law in force would continue to exist, i.e. a person entitled to vote abroad would be free to decide whether to vote by letter or, for example, by going to an advance polling station. According to this proposal, this letter vote would be applied for the first time since the 2019 Parliamentary elections and the law would actually come into force as early as November 2018. I welcome and support this proposal, but it is good that this is being carefully examined in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u224	Mr President! When there is perhaps some criticism of these government proposals from this opposition, it must now be said that this is a proper improvement in how the Finns living abroad can participate in this common democracy of ours. So this presentation makes it possible to vote on the letter of the foreign Finns. It is precisely this technical difficulty of the vote that has also been studied as the main reason for Finns abroad not to vote when they have then been forced to travel to these embassies. It is known that, due to the embassy network, someone will then have a slightly shorter journey, and something else will be longer, and one can assume that this will increase the voting turnout of Finns abroad, at least in part. In that sense, it is also an interesting moment to review this electoral law a little more generally, as we know that we are at the same time considering the clarification of the online vote, the so-called online vote, which the study group is working on, and there is also a parliamentary monitoring group. And now there has also been quite a lot of debate about the elections recently. Perhaps we can say at the end of this speech that there is now quite a lot of thought in Finland as to how it might be easier to vote for ourselves, but we have very little to think about whether we could make life a little easier for people in the election days and be able to combine these different elections. Once the public debate has followed, it seems that this has again been an insurmountable difficulty for the party secretaries, that we will not be able to unite the elections in Finland, even if we are able to increase the turnout, in principle it would also be a sensible way of moving forward, reducing the number of election days and concentrating more elections on the same day, as is the case in other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u225	Mr President! This government proposal on the possibility for expatriate Finns to vote by post, by letter, is very welcome. Even my own cow is in the ditch that my sister lives permanently in Israel and is a double citizen, and in her case, for example, she has been an active voter in the Finnish elections, and it has required her to go two hours in one direction to Tel Aviv. In other words, the person must have gone to a great deal of trouble at this point if he really wanted to take a stand in our democratic system as an expatriate Finn. So this will remove a lot of obstacles. But with a little reference to what the representative is saying. Mrs Räsänen raised the issue of electoral law in general and related issues, so if we are to lower the threshold to vote and consider solutions, we must also consider solutions to lower the threshold to stand as a candidate. It's the party that's going to be there. The blue future has taken a stand with regard to this election funding so that such a campaign ceiling should be set, because the power of money has grown ever greater in the campaign. The financial size has risen and is a direct threat to democracy and then one threshold to stand as a candidate. In other words, we have argued that in municipal elections the campaign ceiling would be EUR 15,000, in regional elections it would be EUR 30,000, in Parliamentary elections it would be 40,000 and then in European Parliament elections it would be 80000. In addition, there would be a mandatory prior notification of election funding, which is currently optional. I am sure that the electorate will know as precisely as possible what you can now know in advance about the candidate's electoral funding and thereby serve the decision-making process of the electorate. This would be an adequate, open and transparent system for lowering the threshold to stand as a candidate and thereby strengthening democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u226	Mr President! It is welcome that voting for expatriate Finns is facilitated. However, I think it is important in this context to carefully examine the impact of such a vote of letters on electoral secrecy as well. I agree with Mr Heinonen that what we have learned from the harassment of the Internet, including the harassment of elections in many countries of the world, is an important warning signal for us, and for precisely the same reasons, I myself am very reserved for moving on to electronic voting. After all, many experts have said that electronic voting must be done away with either the secrecy of the election or the watertight reliability of the vote. However, I think it is part of democracy that we have both of these: the secret of elections and the fact that all citizens can count on the results of the vote that will be published and that the elected representatives will take up their duties actually correspond to what the citizens have voted for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-27-ps-94.u227	Mr President! Just a few words on the whole about this electoral law and the fact that this online vote came up: It is precisely so that, in all circumstances, our electoral system must fulfil two things. The first relates to the freedom to vote, i.e. to allow everyone to vote independently. Another important point relates to this electoral secrecy, that is, that no one else knows what decision the person made unless the person himself tells it. And I have to say that this vote on the letter is precisely the question of this freedom of election, the circumstances in which that decision is taken and the vote is put to this letter and then sent to the world. But the election secret can be dealt with, because these letters and votes go there to a joint ballot in that central election board and it is impossible to identify who has used the letter vote and who has not. In general, when much is said about this online vote and little has been considered about these examples in Estonia, it must be remembered that in Finland, our current voting system is very foolproof and allows parties, for example, to carry out their own checks after the counting of votes and the confirmation of votes, as, for example, after the municipal elections in some localities. This would therefore be impossible if we went completely into the electronic system, where we were to vote on the Internet. And for many other reasons, because of the examples we have seen in other countries, I myself would not be very much in favour of going to the online vote, but this very familiar and secure way of voting will continue to work.
