ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to take their place in the ministerial box. Next, I would ask those Members who wish to ask questions to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u2	Congressman Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u3	Mr President! The government has a strong employment objective, but it is not in the process of achieving it. Long-term unemployment is at record levels, and a large number of unemployed Finns expect government action that could create new jobs. The government's employment measures so far have mainly meant cuts in security for the unemployed. At the same time, support for services and employment for the most vulnerable people, young people and the long-term unemployed has been abandoned. Although the economy is slowly improving, the views of the most vulnerable people are still uncertain and even desperate. For them, the government has not been able to give hope and prospects. Employment appropriations are at a sub-standard level in relation to needs. So I ask you, Prime Minister, about the government's actions so far. They have not helped, but they have increased their isolation and lack of participation. What do you think we should do now? How could the government increase jobs for young people and the long-term unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u4	Mr President! I may not quite agree with the fact that the government's actions have not been bitten. Even early in the year, the figures are quite good: January increases by 3.7 per cent and February, according to preliminary data, by 3 per cent. If we are able to maintain this level, this will also be reflected very quickly in the reduction of unemployment. The trend of long-term unemployment has also turned downwards since the long-term rise. These are exactly the signals that what has been done works exactly as thought. But on this point I fully agree with the questioner that the level of long-term unemployment is far too high, and at the beginning of the week to come the mid-term debate will consider the precise means of facilitating, for example, the situation of the long-term unemployed. But the most important thing is that we strengthen this positive economic trend and thus create new jobs, and that is how:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u5	Madam President! I share the Prime Minister's view that we are heading towards the light. Seriously, as the questioner says, the long-term unemployed need to be taken care of. I do not agree that people have been left behind, but this problem is just so huge that its solution is not a magic trick, as you well know. In other words, there is a need for a wide range of measures, and then, on Monday and Tuesday, the government will go through these measures — follow-up measures. We must remember that this government has made bold decisions, and they have not always been terribly favorable to someone, but yes, the good goal is that this Finland goes uphill. Of course, it does not just go away by bullying a particular group, but by trying to build a balanced whole, where all those who take part in these activities, and especially those who are well-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u6	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u7	Mr President! These actions by the government to date have been such that the government has not even achieved its own objectives, and in this respect encouragement and development seem to have been only cuts. Action to create new jobs is lacking in power. Today, the long-term unemployed and young people without education and jobs only have dark prospects for the future, especially since there has been a very high price for cuts in education and training. The government is not in the process of achieving either its employment targets or the targets for balancing public finances. The fear is that the old line will continue next week and there will be only cuts. When you started, Prime Minister, you said that you wanted to turn political culture into so-called performance responsibility — result or out — and then you specified and stated that the results would not be considered until spring 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u8	Madam President! The Government's objective is to increase the employment rate to 72%. We're around 69% now. One percentage point has been made. If we last mirror, 100,000 more unemployed, now some of these 100,000 have been given a job under this government and through the actions of this government. If this positive trend, which was achieved last year — an increase of 1.4% — reaches that level and that level of 2% this year, then our targets are still possible. The promise that I will look at these goals from a personal point of view at this time in 2018 still does, and it has an accurate set of indicators that I will go through in a year's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u9	Mr President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy made a new forecast of what is happening in our regions and what the employment prospects are. These forecasts estimated that unemployment in itself will fall slightly, even if long-term unemployment will fall slightly, but when you look at it by region, in fact in about half of the regions the employment rate will fall sharply. I believe that this is one of the key criteria. It is good if we bring unemployment down, but it alone will not help if we do not get employment up. And employment is affected by knowledge. So I would like to ask: what is the government going to do to ensure that the unemployed have sufficient access to training? Labour policy training money has been drastically cut, and now that this system is being reformed, there is a risk that those who are the least educated will find access to training more difficult, but those who act on their own will be fine, just as the strong in society in general will be able to cope, but the weak will need the help of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u10	Mr President! Congressman Filatov is at the heart of the matter. It is quite true that although we have such a positive structural change, which is a good thing, and we are meant to spread it good in countries other than south-west Finland, we still have measures. Today I have received a report on this type of structural change — together with Mr Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, and it contains a number of proposals for action. One suggestion was to study with unemployment benefit. This was in the tripartite working group and came out in dispute, but that does not mean that the government could not deal with this issue in the mid-term debate and take a position on it. These regional differences have been identified. I am well aware that there are considerable problems in some areas, and that is the problem. That is why we need to diversify our business sectors, such as tourism, so that we can spread this good, including those in Eastern Finland and Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u11	Mr President! To date, encouraging the government has meant drastic cuts for the unemployed: cutting unemployment benefit by 100 days, introducing a monthly work sample, three-month interviews, reducing the protection against dismissal,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u12	Mr President! Of course, this problem has been recognized that there are many young people who have fallen off the sled. Even that doesn't happen with one trick, it needs a lot of action. The idea, of course, in this work sample you refer to — that is to say, the work experiment is indeed one of the means — is that the person is first and foremost able to show his motivation. When I myself have been to companies, entrepreneurs say that they do not so much seek out that knowledge, but the attitude is often mentioned first. [Right : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u13	Madam President! Despite these small positive signs, it should be remembered that part-time involuntary work has increased, the employment rate of people under the age of 35 has continued to decline, long-term unemployment is far too high and a large number of young people are threatened with permanent exclusion from the labour market. The overwhelming majority of unemployed people would accept a job if it were offered. Depending on the method of calculation, there are 7 to 10 job seekers per job vacancy. From this left point of view, the government seems to think quite a lot that accepting a job is a bit of a matter of willingness and activity. But it was quite encouraging when Mr Lindström said just now that there was no further bullying by any group. Does this mean, Minister for Labour, that the government will not come in the middle of the debate, in the debate on the spending limits, to increase sanctions against the unemployed, their obligations, to increase their threshold for unemployment security and so on? Will the bullying of the unemployed stop?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u14	Mr President! I am glad you raised this question. Of course, of all the activities the government is doing, we have been going through in advance with social partners, for example, a long time ago, last autumn, on this kind of tens list, where among other things is this much-publicized active model. In addition to that, the list includes, among other things, the rules of zero-hour contracts. This is a package. This is a package that is both more unpleasant and more positive. You can't pick something from there that's good for yourself and you want to take it forward and say that this is not what I'm worried about. This is the debate and we have openly told the social partners what we are doing. The active model has been moved forward, as we have openly stated. So there shouldn't be anything new surprising about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u15	Värderade Talman! Att höja sysselsättningsgraden är vårt gemensamma mål tai i riksdagen, och svenska folkpartiet och svenska riksdagsgruppen vill vara konstruktiva och bidra med våra egna reception. Därför träffade vi också statsminister Sipilä i tisdags och kom med våra konkreta förslag till hur man kan höja sysselsättningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u16	Mr President! A very good and constructive question, which is also easy to answer. This Sipilä government has strategic objectives, and we are the first government in the world to have included the circular economy among its strategic objectives. Finland wants to be number one in this world. At the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we are preparing legislation that enables this to happen. Together with Sitra, we have drawn up a circular economy road map that involved almost a thousand actors from all over the world, mainly companies, preparing measures. Now we have convened the World Circular Economy Forum in June in Helsinki. We're expecting 1,500 visitors from all over the world. We really want to make Finland’s circular economy number one and work hard to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u17	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen answered that question about the circular economy, but I would like to thank the Swedish People's Party for taking it up here in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u20	Mr President! The SDP here is deeply reprehensible for the government's employment policy. We must now remember the past, the previous government of the SDP, how things went with employment. The Government’s goal in 2011 was to create 100,000 new jobs. A hundred thousand new jobs were the goal, what happened? A hundred thousand jobs were lost during that period. [Left: Oh!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u21	Mr President! Of course, the government is considering a number of measures specifically relating to the employment of young people: such as the Youth Guarantee, the Youth Guarantee and the Ohjaamo activities, their involvement in growth services and the involvement of these young people in general. All these measures, which have been criticised here, are aimed at bringing everything into this society. I understand very well that, of course, everyone wishes to have a permanent, permanent employment relationship, but, of course, we must be able to appreciate the shorter ones. I understand that there are a lot of problems that you do not want to accept. That is why the government is taking a number of measures to ensure that it is always worthwhile to do its work and to provide it with its work. It is not always so nice, but it is extremely important for this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u22	Mr President! It is clear that we all know that there was a change in employment, and that turn took place in the spring of 2015, and that is what the government is now talking about as good news. I also think it was good news that this happened, but we would not just like to look back on the past, but now we should take steps and take new measures for the future. Yes, the management of employment is the key element in stabilising economic policy in this country. Next week is the time for big decisions by this government, and our concern is that you will continue along the old road, along the path of cutting, unless this employment is taken as a priority. Once again, Prime Minister, I hope that you will be able to tell us: will the management of employment be your top priority next week? Will you therefore take a policy change and take account of the improvement in employment of the most vulnerable people next week, that is to say, as a priority?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u23	Mr President! I also think that this is clearly heading in the right direction, as we are now discussing who is responsible for this turnaround. I don't care who makes the turn as long as Finland wins and the unemployed gets a job. I don't care who did it. Are employment and growth the first goals of the government's mid-term debate? Yes, they are, but there's another goal. In fact, Finland is not only in order to get public finances in order, but we must put an end to this process of inequality. That is why the second basket, the important basket that we are going through along with employment, is the basket of care. In addition to these security threats, which we have seen a lot of happenings around us, the whole of security is the third entity we are going through. The fourth is that we are determined to complete Finland's reforms. Finland has not been reformed for a long time, and we need to find the last solutions for Finland to continue on the path of reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u24	Next question, Congressman Vartia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u25	Mr President! We spend around EUR 4 billion annually on business subsidies, and this is in the same order of magnitude as the government's savings targets. Hundreds of millions have been saved from training, but these business subsidies have not been touched. This is despite the fact that economists almost invariably agree that the vast majority of corporate subsidies are superfluous and even harmful. The aid distorts competition, makes it possible to pass on those undertakings which are covered by the aid, and makes it difficult and less competitive for those who do not receive the aid. In addition to this, subsidies must, of course, be financed in some way. When we have incentive problems in society as a whole, it is not worth taxing companies and work any more for nothing. Fortunately, however, last October the government decided to set up a working group to investigate business subsidies and their effectiveness. The report is a very good basis for this debate and I would therefore like to ask: when will the report be ready and when will we be able to make it available?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u26	Madam President! This study is ready, and it is a tool for the government now in the mid-term debate, where we are going through business subsidies. The fact that all subsidies are very passive, as the representative suggested, may not be true. There are very important social subsidies, such as social building subsidies. In other words, it cannot be said alone that they only have negative effects. The total amount is about 4 billion, which is currently going through very carefully. This includes direct payments and also fiscal subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u27	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u28	Mr President! Take one example of harmful corporate aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u31	Madam President! All subsidies are under review and we are going through them. Of course, I must remind you now that these figures, to which the questioner refers, came from 2011 to 2014, and I understand that you, the Greens, were then sitting on the board. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u32	Mr President! When we talk in this Chamber about business taxation and its changes, we have given strong support to the overall review of business subsidies. Last autumn, the Minister for Finance said that such a study is going on and that is why it has been expected to rise like the moon. Now I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: if you are going to make decisions on the basis of this report in a few weeks' time, when will we in the opposition also get this final report for us to see and read? It is a particularly important document when it comes to considering in the future what business aid should be maintained and what should perhaps be made more effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u33	Madam President! I'm glad to hear there's going to be support from the opposition. I'm sure we'll need it. Personally, I don't see any problem. We can put it on our ministry's website, but it doesn't matter when, because it's commissioned as a tool for this halfway argument.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u36	Madam President! It is very good that there is a critical debate on corporate subsidies. Generally speaking, we all want to reduce aid to companies in general, but when it comes to individual aid, we see that there is no support for reducing it. Then there's always some good argument for them. There was a focus on business support of EUR 200 million. At the moment, wind power subsidies are paid for a couple hundred million euros a year. This figure will in practice rise from this every year to less than ten years, and these subsidies will in practice go into the pockets of foreign investors. So there is no point in this, and now I ask: is there any way that these absurd wind power subsidies, which are increasing to another billion, can be tackled?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u37	Madam President! These aids, which have been granted, are contractual. We cannot unilaterally withdraw the agreements, as Mrs Zyskowicz knows as a lawyer, which is, of course, where the state is at a disadvantage. We now have a clear plan in the energy strategy on how to move towards technology-neutral support, and that will of course remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u38	Madam President! There is certainly a lot of useless business aid, but one form of aid that is useful is to support the internationalisation of SMEs. At present, only around 13% of Finnish SMEs export when Denmark and Sweden are clearly higher — in fact, it is calculated that if we reach the same percentages as Denmark and Sweden, then our employment rate would also be in line with the target of 72%. What does the government intend to do to make it easier for us to get SMEs to export there? At the same time, it has been noted that internationalisation and growth orientation are also strongly interlinked, i.e. 30% of international companies are also very growth-oriented. What is the government going to do to make this promotion of exports of SMEs a better internationalisation, at the same level as in other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u39	Mr Essayah is right again: this is the side on which we must invest. And the government has invested. Examples: the innovation voucher, the internationalisation voucher — very well received. I was just at the Finlandia House to reward young entrepreneurs, all of whom raised internationalisation in their own speeches. They don't export, they do international trade. It's a normal space for them. And of course the big solution that will be made now is that we put Tekes and Finpro together and come to Business Finland. Its starting point is that when a person, an entrepreneur gets his own idea, he can go through one door and get funding, get its export marketing, its productization, all the help behind one door or one door. The Government's objective is to double the export volume, and I strongly believe that this Business Finland will be very good for the SME sector in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u40	Mr President! This is a very good question for Mr Essayah, and I personally consider the Minister to be a key indicator. The success of Lintilä and myself is precisely the role of export companies in SMEs, and in this respect, in the context of the Business Finland reform, it is also intended, I would say, that Denmark is also bound by the practical nature of our embassies and representation networks, which also serve precisely to promote exports to SMEs. We are making ambassadorial country leaders for the entire Team Finland system. We have many good examples, but we also have much to learn in this respect and important work to do. Similarly, we are going to have a separate task force on how SMEs are better able to catch up with international development finance projects — both the UN, the World Bank and our own development programmes — where we may also have been too passive in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u41	Mr President! During Sipilä's Board of Directors, EUR 150 million has been cut from research and product development, with the same scale cuts from higher education research. These cuts destroy the success of the future, and this is not just the criticism of the SDP, but all international experts have warned of this. Now the government has promised to make up for these losses by reducing business subsidies, but even here the government has not yet told us what is being cut. In February, the Confederation of Finnish Industries proposed cutting maritime subsidies, subsidies for businesses in agriculture, but also subsidies for companies, and since the government has so far followed the EK guidelines, I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: What subsidies are you cutting? Are maritime subsidies and subsidies for agriculture on the list? And can you promise that employment will not be further reduced by reducing the number of subsidised jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u42	Madam President! The midwayer has one big goal, and it is to get more work for Finland and Finns. That's our goal. We will not go through any specific subsidies in this situation, during this Question Time. We are always doing the work and we value what are the subsidies that can be transferred in a new way, so that they will benefit more, for example, through funding for innovation. This is what we are doing all the time, and this work will continue until the half-way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u43	Next question, Congressman Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u44	Madam President! Minister Lindström referred earlier to this forthcoming reform of growth services. The information we have here on the left side of the opposition, at least on the first version of the statement and the preparation, has in practice meant that, when social welfare reform is quite a privatisation project, it is relatively even more so in the case of employment services. In other words, the role of the provinces and the role of the regional authorities in helping, serving and meeting the unemployed was completely omitted in that version. Well, it has now been heard that TEW would have found the criticisms that have been made throughout the country for this reform and some corrective moves have been made, but I would like to ask: do you intend to ensure that the unemployed receive adequate public services of quality, which really help them and serve them in the future, as this reform may come into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u45	Madam President! The aim of this whole reform is that unemployed people will receive better services than they have done so far, and this is not a privatisation project. Private and public actors work together, and it may be that they sparr each other, take good practices from each other, and in this way the individual, the unemployed, benefits. That's the idea. But if you ask how ready the concept is, then this will not happen so that 2019, click, then everything will be ready. It may be that even in this exercise, like in a mess, it will be a long time before we have a complete concept. But the objective is precisely that the long-term unemployed or those in need of labour should receive services and receive them in a high-quality way and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u46	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u47	Madam President! You, Minister Lindström, said earlier in this Question Time that everyone should take part in these activities, especially those of the good. Now that the spending limits, the mid-term review, are on the way, what is going to give a great deal of thought to this reform is whether it is going to be possible to involve more and more of the unemployed who are going to be cut off. If we look at the decisions the government has made so far, then the Kikiy agreement forced the low-paid public workers to withdraw 30% of the holiday allowance, the unemployed, pensioners, students, sick and families with children have been cut, but the tax on high incomes has been reduced. The question now is: when, according to you, Mr Lindström, everyone must participate in these projects, especially for the good, how well-off are those now in the spending limits debate — in fact, for the first time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u48	Madam President! First of all, if we start with what you said about putting the unemployed even more under pressure. You don't put it on. The goal is to help people. Of course, this rhetoric of yours will bite some, but our goal is to help people get help and help them get back to work, while recognising that there are people there who may never find employment in an open labour market. This is a great problem that we are solving here and, as I said, this is not going to work out. When I said that everyone with the carrying capacity should be involved in this, of course, I referred to the debate which is also there in the middle row and what happened just now is that business subsidies are being looked at. I myself am quite convinced that something will come from there as well as from the employer. This is how it's supposed to be. It can't be like this all the time that one side gives and the other side takes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u49	Mr President! In the government's planned model for the future, if organisations want to provide labour policy services, they must take the form of a company. Well, in practice, this means that those unemployed who have now volunteered in these associations — when there is no work, it is nice to have something sensible to do to fill the days — could no longer work there without losing their unemployment benefit. On the other hand, if the organisations do not adopt the form of a company, they will not be able to offer pay subsidies in the future. It is only in our organisations that it is possible to obtain 100% wage support, which is extremely important for those who are able to work, and the Minister is also very concerned about employment. My question is: will the unemployed continue to be involved in NGOs? Does the 100 percent wage subsidy even survive in the organization field?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u50	Madam President! The 100 % wage subsidy will be maintained on the basis that there will be 3000 roofs — that is what we have put there because this 100 % wage subsidy is the most expensive. What we are interested in is what this pay subsidy achieves: there is, of course, this rehabilitative side, but there is also the thought that this person can sometimes get to the right jobs. This is the idea. Here the system has not worked — I am not saying that it has only failed, but it could be better — and that is why we are making these reforms so that we can get this path forward so that people can actually get to the right jobs. That is why we have intervened in this country's most expensive, this 100% wage subsidy. It is unfortunate for these organisations, I know it, but from there we have started, and we have also told these organisations in good time and challenged them to look at their own activities. This cannot be based indefinitely on the fact that it is always a taxpayer who supports this activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u51	Mr President! In the past, the SDP and the left made a great deal of mention of the fact that the government is putting the unemployed under pressure and is only doing cuts and weakenings, including these three-monthly interviews. In fact, I have heard in the expert hearing that it has already received good feedback: People have been found who have been in the wrong place and have never been seen before. They are now directed to health care and rehabilitation, for example. They've been in the wrong place. I don't know why this is called weakening. We are very pleased about this. Yesterday we also had in-service training for construction sites. There is currently unemployment and the need for trained workers again. Here's a good example. And you said, Minister Lindström, before Easter, that it might also be easier to hire the first employee. There are a lot of good things here, and now all the bad things have been raised here today. Can you tell me something about what's coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u53	Madam President! Yes, there is also this facilitation of hiring the first employee in the balance when we in the mid-term debate are considering these issues. Presentations have been made, including, for example, a single entrepreneur's service package — an entrepreneur-to-employer project. This is there in the mid-term review, and then a decision will be made and a policy will be taken on the way forward. At the same time, this report by Maria Löfgren and Harri Hellstén on improving the position of self-employed. It's in the middle of a hearing. This, to which Mr Meri referred, this guidance and the fact that people are in the right place is precisely the reason why we are making these changes. Anyone who has any knowledge of this labour market policy knows that this system of ours is not working. People are in the wrong place, they are being offered the wrong services, and that is why changes have to be made. And about conversion training, we're still thinking about it. It is worth expanding beyond the construction sector and making us a flexible way of reacting to these labour shortages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u54	Mr President! I hope, however, that the government will recognise that these employment measures in organisations are often those that prevent people from drifting into long-term unemployment and also enable them to get out of it, and in the case of the part-time and intermediate labour markets, their role is absolutely central. It is not a good direction for new forms of consideration, escapes, restrictions, pampering to weaken this role of organisations, in which they can raise people out of difficult situations. Now, Minister Lindström, I hope, will answer that this is not your aim, but will ensure that the role of organisations in developing the intermediate labour market can continue to be strong, and you will pay attention to this. Then I would also ask Prime Minister Sipilä: When, during that Question Time in the run-up to the elections, Minister Orpo promised that, if employment measures were taken, they would not weaken the position of the disadvantaged or the low-income, but if structural changes were made, the money would be directed towards helping these people in some other way. This is a big question of principle as to whether the government is going to facilitate employment by increasing the profitability of working so that it helps people to increase their earnings,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u55	Madam President! The questioner, Mr Niinistö, now drew attention to the roles of these organisations in the future. As I said, this marginal condition has been set that 3000 is the ceiling for this 100% wage subsidy. But yes, I recognize and acknowledge the good role played by these organisations. They have done a very important job precisely where those people stay in some condition, that there is something sensible to do, and of course the government will continue to value it very much. And "part-time workers" is one of the entries in the Government Programme that we, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, will then take forward. The intermediate labour market is very important, but it is precisely the idea that there should be a path forward. That is why we are talking about the intermediate labour market, which is hopefully a transition to an open labour market, and that is what the government is, of course, seeking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u56	Mr President! I am sure that Minister Orpo has spoken wisely here when I have been away, and I will be able to confirm that message afterwards. So the starting point for the spending limits debate is what has been told in advance that, in addition to the 4 billion package of savings, we will not seek further fiscal blackmail, but we will now look at the effects of these measures and we will do everything we can to accelerate this positive development of employment and the economy, which has now been achieved. So this is the starting point, and, as Minister Orpo has said, if there are retargetings, they really do not seek cuts in the whole, but the purpose of retargeting is then to bring about structural changes. The same applies to the whole scheme of aid to firms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u57	Next question, Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u58	Mr President, ärade talman! Under förra regeringsperiodenskrek opposition med sannfinländarra i spetsen i högan sky att annat poliser absolut inte får sjunka. Nu tänker den sittande regeringen med moss sannfinländare drastickt stänta antä poliser.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u59	Madam President! It is quite true that we have those places of saving in every sector, but we in this government believe that safety is the first thing we want to take forward. It has also been agreed as a priority now that we are approaching the mid-term debate, and one of the themes there is the promotion of security, precisely as a priority. And it is also very much due to the events that have taken place around us recently, even in Stockholm and so on — the representative knows what I mean. All in all, safety is our top priority, and we also need factors to do this. How many border guards are needed, how many policemen are needed, how much is reserved for the next framework – that is what we will decide next week. So it is a little early today to talk about any figures when viewed as a whole. We need a great many different instruments, we need those financial resources and we also need a good division of labour between the safety authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u60	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u61	Värderade Talman! Redogörelsen för den inre skerheten ger inte vid hand hur man kan garantera skerheten genom att stänka you ant poliser. Redogörelsen nämner att polisverksamheten ska utvecklas genom bland you give a prioriterngar och effektiviseringar. Med klarspråk betyder det, vad polisen ska låta bli att utreda. Detta stöder inte finländarnas trygghetskänsla.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u62	Madam President! As I said here, this government has taken priority in promoting and strengthening security. Finland is one of the safest countries in the world, and we can be very proud of it, but we have to work for it all the time. One is precisely that we have enough security personnel — that we have police officers, that we have border guards, that we have people in Customs, and so on — and that their cooperation is playing very well and that we also have a good division of labour. The exact figures, which with what money and how much money we have available, will be clear after next week's debates.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u63	Madam President! Our security environment has indeed changed in the last few years in a more unstable direction, and the border between internal and external security has become blurred. This change must be taken seriously, and this is what the government has done. One of the issues to be resolved has been the impact of foreign land ownership on security. A working group set up by the Ministry of Defence today gave up a study on the possibility of restricting foreign real estate transactions on the basis of total security. The State could be given the right to take advantage of real estate transactions that have a key impact on overall security. In the current security situation, it is therefore essential that our authorities be given sufficient powers to ensure the domestic ownership of land that is important for overall security. Decisions must be taken soon on the matter of drafting the law. I would ask the Minister for Defence, Niinistö: what is the timetable and process with which the government intends to contribute to the preparation of the proposed legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u64	Madam President! It may be that Prime Minister Sipilä wishes to complete my reply, but as early as today, Timo Lankinen, the Under-Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, has been appointed to chair the working group which will draw up these necessary legislative proposals for a government proposal. The purpose is to complete these proposals during the spring period of 2018 and then for the parliamentary discussion after the consultation and then for the entry into force of 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u65	Madam President! Minister, you said that one of the particular priorities of this government is security. However, during your government, the number of policemen has fallen, several hundred policemen and women have decreased from one field to another. This development has been ongoing for several years and several governments. We have been on a slide in which the number of policemen has steadily decreased year by year. Now you have said that you will leave the details for next week, but I would like to ask at this stage how to ensure that the new police posts created in connection with the increase in the number of police training go into the field rather than behind the oak tables, where, even after the previous police reforms, there are enough people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u66	Madam President! We have also had to remove the oak tables because we are in such a tight situation, but it is now quite first to say that, for example, last autumn, this government made additional funding in the supplementary budget, and we received millions more money. At the turn of the year, we would have had 200 temporary police officers unemployed, and we were able to continue their employment relationship with additional funding, which was a very important issue. Your question about how we can keep its field staff: That's right, that's the goal that we can keep the people out there. Not to increase the administration, not to increase the administrative steps, but to keep that network and that staff, specifically, to produce security there close to the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u67	Madam President! Between 2003 and 2007, RKP was on the board, I think it was the SDP, and 410 police posts were reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u68	Madam President! As I said, it is precisely our aim that we consider the number of police officers to be sufficient and precisely that we do not need to reduce the number of police officers. That's the goal. There was now a great deal of talk about what has happened in different years and ages. It must now be borne in mind that every government makes decisions according to the current situation. Now the security situation has changed from that, from all these previous governments. It can be said that even during this government, in two years, the security situation in Europe, globally and in Finland has changed. That is why this government has taken security as one of its priorities. There is a need for border guards, a need for police officers, a need for many other security personnel. We now have this whole concept when we think about the next two years, but every day we have to ensure security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u69	Madam President! I believe that the debate on the number of police officers is not a place for party pecking, but for looking in the mirror together. We have collective responsibility for this. Although the government has made a lot of investments now — fortunately, thank you for that — also in the police resources, we will find ourselves again in the next few years in a situation where there is a threat of a reduction in the number of policemen, and the problem is also on the table of the next government, whoever sits there for us. Together we should find solutions to secure police funds, but on the other hand we should also consider how the police are part of our society. I would like to highlight the point of view that it would also be good to have more people from different ethnic and religious backgrounds as police officers. This would help to increase confidence in police activities and, on the other hand, the understanding of different cultural backgrounds by the police. In particular, in the current situation of immigration and refugees, this could be useful. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Risiko, if you have considered taking action on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u70	Madam President! Now we must also say, as a compliment to this government, that this government has increased the number of places of training, which is, of course, a good thing that we are able to secure the reserve. At the moment, for example, we only have 21 unemployed policemen, which means that we do not have a reserve in that way, and that is why we need these levels of training. What you asked about this, how we could get people of different backgrounds, that is quite obvious, but we must always remember that, according to ethnic background or home country, we cannot make criteria for access requirements, but we are all on the same track, that is, we have the same criteria for everyone. Of course, we hope that all policemen will have an understanding of different ethnic backgrounds and also of the surrounding society when they help people with different ethnic backgrounds. In other words, its expertise and its orientation must be such a multicultural one, of course, but it's always easier if you've come from a different background.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u71	Madam President! Has the government taken note of the fact that the reform of alcohol law that you are planning also increases the workload of the police? The National Institute for Health and Welfare has estimated that alcohol consumption will increase by 6%. When we know that 70% of all police duties are alcohol-related, that would in practice mean that we would need up to 300 man-years of work for the police if this alcohol law were to become what it is now envisaged in the version in the consultation. How is this taken into account at the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u73	Madam President! The effects of every law that is passed must be assessed, just as the effects of this legislation on alcohol have been assessed. Congressman Räsänen is telling the truth. It's been estimated how many police officers we'd need. And I have said this many times, even in this state, that more police are needed for this very reason, and that is only realism. When a law is adopted, the effects must be assessed and applied accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u74	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 5/2017 vp, the opinion on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Administrative Committee, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. The conversation is about to begin. — Eerola, Chairman of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u75	Mr President! Throughout the ages, Parliament is dealing with the first internal security report and the first internal security report. In the past, internal security has been mentioned, albeit only in passing, in the two previous UTP reports. Therefore, taking into account the overall security of the internal security of society, Parliament has required in its response to the 2013 Parliaments that by the end of 2017, the Government should provide Parliament with a comprehensive, detailed report (1) on the state of internal security, (2) on the performance of internal security, public authorities and other actors, (3) on the development needs and challenges of various activities, and (4) on the long-term financial resources and resources needs required for different tasks. Two other security reports have also been submitted to Parliament during the current parliamentary term in addition to the Internal Security Report: the traditional UTP report and the defence report currently under discussion in the Committee on Defence. It has been envisaged that these three reports constitute a central framework for the overall security of society. The threats of these three reports are, in many respects, quite parallel. However, the threats posed by the changing security environment due to the different sectoral contexts of the reports are not fully consistent, but are centred on objectives and measures in the sector. Finland’s internal security is linked to security situations in the Member States of the European Union and other neighbouring countries. The situation picture and the operating environment have changed rapidly. In an unstable safety situation, the predictability of development has deteriorated significantly and there is no better prospect of change. The causes of the new threats are related to crises elsewhere: terrorism, large-scale immigration to Europe and cross-border conflicts with the impact on us in Finland. Internal and external security are intertwined in many ways. As far as internal security is concerned, it must also be kept in mind that the so-called traditional internal security tasks remain to be carried out. They haven't disappeared anywhere. It is no scare to say that Finland is no longer a birdhouse, although, generally speaking, compared to other countries, our country is at least still a relatively peaceful country. Yet, about one million reports of crime and about one million police alerts are recorded on an annual basis. About half of the reported offences are related to criminal offences and about half of the alerts are related to urgent alerts. Day by day there will be enough, and when you go from the needy side to look at the situation, the picture is no longer as positive as it is on a general level and from a distance from the papers may still seem in the eyes of some. It should be noted that the Internal Security Report, as part of this three reports, is not a so-called daily security report, but rather a report on the hard core of internal security, and that is what it was intended to be. The report does, of course, recognise the factors that affect security, such as exclusion, income inequality, employment, alcohol and substance abuse policy, the situation in the economy and equality. However, the subject matter cannot be too broad to allow controlled and effective work to be carried out. As the report shows, a rather broad and complex whole is at stake here when it comes to the so-called hard core of internal security. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Administration has assessed the first Internal Security Report and the state of internal security over a period of about 30 years, highlighting recent developments in its analysis in the 21st century. The committee's examination has been factual and unspeakable. The Internal Security Report begins with the foreword of the then Home Affairs Minister, which identifies a strong change in the security environment and hence, among other things, the need to improve the performance of internal security authorities. The first chapter of the report describes the changing operating environment both in Finland and in Europe. In addition, in the first chapter, the operational internal security authorities of the Ministry of the Interior present their views on the state of internal security and prospects. However, on the basis of the study obtained, the examination has in fact only been carried out at ministerial level and, for example, the Police Government has not been involved in this work. In the second chapter of the report, the abovementioned Home Affairs Authorities describe the measures to respond to changes in the safety environment and people’s expectations. This chapter highlights the imbalance between resources and expectations of public authorities. In Chapter 3, the Government gives its own response to the assessments of the previous chapters on the state of internal security and presents its conclusions as the basis for the internal security strategy to be drawn up after the report and the related operational programme. Mr President! The expectations regarding the report have been great. However, as the report shows, the report has proved to be a great disappointment. In a situation where the situation picture of internal security has become substantially more challenging, the development perspective of the Ministry of the Interior report is exceptionally thin and general. The answer to the report is crystallized that, even in a changed security situation, action must be adapted to the budgetary framework, which inevitably means a deterioration in security. Of course, there are a few points in the report which may be interpreted as referring to proposals for measures: One of these is the prioritisation of tasks. However, the report does not include proposals for Parliament to assess on the basis of which and which statutory tasks would not be performed. The second proposal is the technological advance of the authorities. According to the report, internal security authorities must be pioneers in the use of new technologies already in 2020. However, the report does not say how it is done. It will take years to develop new and reliable public authorities, and it will cost money. The Vitja project, which has been under way for about ten years and is still under way, is an example of the complexity of the information system project and how it can fail. Secondly, project funding has been cut in the framework and there is therefore no money for the development of new technologies. The third proposal of the report is that an internal security strategy and an operational programme be drawn up under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior. In the report, therefore, Parliament has been given an answer that a programme to be drawn up outside Parliament, the content of which is not being discussed by Parliament or the content of which is not even known by Parliament, provides guidelines for the future of internal security. There is no way that this can be the case, but the guidelines adopted by Parliament in the report form the guidelines for the future development of internal security. The report is likely to have been drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior in a relatively limited preparation of civil servants without parliamentary coverage. For example, the Parliamentary Monitoring Group would have most likely ensured that the report would have responded to Parliament's statement and that the review would have concerned the entire core of internal security, the so-called security authority. Of course, Customs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Courts and the Criminal Sanctions Agency would have been included in the report. At least to some extent, the texts of the report appear uncoordinated. The most serious thing is that Parliament's mandate has not been taken into account, but that the statement on the content of the report adopted by Parliament has been ignored. In addition to the quality of the report, the time span differs from the two other security reports mentioned above, which look to the future until the middle of the next decade. The deadline for the Internal Security Report is the remaining parliamentary term. However, the Administrative Committee has taken the same time perspective in its report as in the UTP report and the defence report, that is, until the middle of next decade. Mr President! The purpose of the mandate given to the Government by the Parliament in the form of a statement was precisely to ensure that the ability of the key internal security authorities to carry out the tasks of the safety authorities on a 24-hour basis throughout the year is ensured. It is not a question of public authorities but of the security needs of citizens and society. On the other hand, the performance of public authorities is very much based on people's work in carrying out statutory tasks. The report assesses the role and capacity of the police to protect people's lives and health in serious alerts and to combat and solve crimes. Preparing for new threats also requires a new kind of competence, ability and legislation. As things go on, the police are helping less often and more and more crimes are not solved. The border guard must be able to ensure border security independently, The emergency services must be able to provide assistance to those in distress, the rescue services must be able to carry out their own rescue tasks, and so on. In addition to a comprehensive analysis, the report contains conclusions on how to restore the capacity of public authorities to function at an appropriate level in a changed security environment. Deteriorated and impaired performance is a longer period of time. It is the responsibility of many governments — not just this government, Mr Adlercreutz. It is clear that no one has reason to wonder how this is possible now if and when it is really serious. Due to the shortcomings of the report, the Administrative Committee has had to do a very large amount of work in drawing up the report so that the essential aspects of the security of society mentioned in the parliamentary statement are not left unanalysed. Mr President! Internal security is the cornerstone of Finnish society. It is the responsibility of the State to maintain it. Today, the stone base, which has made our country a safe place of establishment for foreign companies among others, is threatening to crumble. Once lost, it's hard to regain. In addition to the general picture of the situation, the report, the security situation and citizens' sense of security, the report includes, in the case of the police, the Border Guard and the Emergency Response Centre, an authority-specific review of their performance with developments, conclusions on the prospects for development and proposals for measures to maintain internal security, which is one of the central tasks of the State. In the case of rescue services, a more detailed analysis will be carried out in committee on a separate draft law related to regional reform. In this respect, an expert consultation has already been launched in the Administrative Committee. The role of the Defence Forces as an important authority for internal security has also received its own section in the report. Excluded from the Report Customs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts and the Criminal Sanctions Agency have been examined in summary. In addition, new threats and their prevention have been assessed by theme. These themes include large-scale migration to and from Europe, terrorism and violent extremism, organised crime and then hybrid threats, including hybrid influence, cyber threats and information impact. Mr President! In its final summary, the Administrative Committee notes that the operating conditions and performance of the internal security authorities have been affected in a complex way by the reduction in resources which occurred during several parliamentary terms due to the economic situation. In addition to traditional threats, internal security and its feeling are weakened by new threats in a changed world. These shortcomings can be remedied by means of decisive measures. The committee's report includes a proposal for a statement in the form of a statement to maintain the public's sense of security and security and to protect society. In order to carry out the mid-term review of the measures taken before the next round of reports in the 2020s, a written report from the government on the measures taken by the end of 2020 is needed. Finally, the maintenance of the Finnish society's stone leg, internal security, is all about very small financial investments: 1000 police officers would cost about 60 million. We must also ensure that the legislation is up-to-date in order to respond appropriately to both traditional and new threats. In addition, it is essential that staff skills are developed through training, also in line with the new requirements. The development measures contained in the report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs will go as far as the middle of the next decade and work must begin immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u76	Mr President! Our country's security environment has become worse than before. International conflicts and crises around the world are rapidly reflected in the security of our country. Controversies are increasing and violent extremism is intensifying. The change in our security environment is so rapid that only a year ago since the Internal Security Report, the situation has deteriorated. Events in our neighbouring countries are touching and we cannot close our eyes. In order to ensure the safety of citizens, the authorities must be able to respond to both new and old threats. The Finnish Government has recognised the change that has taken place. Next week, the mid-term review of the Government will review the implementation of the Government Programme and agree on the necessary additional measures. Safety has been decided to be one of the priorities. The security situation requires a lot of action from us. Both legislative measures relating to the powers of the authorities and the performance and level of funding of the safety authorities need to be revised to reflect the changed security situation. Responding to change is in our own hands — we cannot continue simply by talking. The Ministry of the Interior is preparing a number of measures to ensure internal security. A comprehensive internal security strategy and operational programme prepared in cooperation with the various actors will be completed in the spring. The reports on intelligence legislation have just been completed and are about to go into statements, the reform of the rescue services and the development of regional preparedness, the better response to hybrid threats and so on. What, then, are these threats, from where do the security threats come from? The global security situation has deteriorated and cannot help affecting Finland as an eastern border state of the European Union. Numerous researchers agree that multifaceted polarisation is a growing problem in our society. The marginalisation of young men in particular seems to be rapidly increasing, and there will certainly also be safety reflections. I have said on many occasions that exclusion is the greatest threat to internal security in this country. The positive development of pluralism in our society itself also results in fragmentation of values and an increase in confrontations. Immigration is an important resource issue for an ageing Finland, but it also has security implications. As a result of urbanisation, the population of sparsely populated areas is increasingly scarcer and the services of safety authorities are also far removed. Technological development is central to Finland's future, but this sector must also be able to respond to new security needs, namely cybercrime and, to a large extent, information through social media, require the authorities to have new performance. The risk of terrorist attacks has not necessarily increased substantially in Finland, but the impact of such attacks on the public's sense of security should be shaken. This is why stronger extremism and ideology require intensive monitoring by the authorities to enable the mandate and resources of civilian intelligence to be ensured. All this must be achieved in a situation where the budgetary situation in our country is still challenging. Mr President! I would like to thank the Administrative Committee for its very carefully prepared and thorough report on the Government's internal security report. At the same time, I would like to thank all those who have said so. The Administrative Committee sees a very good change in the situation. In preparing the report, the Committee on Administration has looked very carefully at recent developments in a number of internal security indicators and indicators. That's good. The Committee on Administrative Affairs deserves special thanks for the fact that it attaches great importance to the wide-ranging complexity of our security environment and the loss of internal and external security borders. The desire to make this point clear has also guided the preparation of the report, which is why it explicitly states: 'The diminishing resources for internal security are at odds with the increasing and complex tasks of the safety authorities, the expectations of citizens and the rapid change in the operating environment.' Mr President! In August last year, I launched a strategy for internal security and an operational programme. The adoption decision states that the strategy must be based on a broad security perspective and stresses that the internal security of the future requires deep and committed cooperation between different authorities as well as NGOs, local communities, industry and a wide range of other actors. Thus, in the strategy that is just being drawn up, these issues will be dealt with and emphasised by cooperation, and the accompanying operational programme underlines the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation, but at the same time they will inevitably highlight the fact that, in the event of a diversity of security, the authorities must have the powers, performance and resources necessary to carry out their tasks. Mr President! Finally, Finland is one of the safest countries in the world, measured by many indicators. We must ensure that this is the case in the future. All authorities and decision-makers must have a common realistic view of the changing security situation. At the same time, the powers and performance of the authorities and other adequate resources must be ensured. We in this Parliament recognise the situation that has become more difficult and it is therefore time to take decisions in favour of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u77	Now is the opportunity to ask for answers by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u78	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Administration is a very transparent assessment of the internal security situation because it has for a long time been very concerned about the operating conditions of the internal security authorities in this very changing environment. This report puts the line very high — on the one hand, next week's mid-term debate, but, above all, on the next strategic work on this report and on the next implementation plan. The Government is responding to these concerns, but, of course, it would be essential to have a long-term perspective over the parliamentary term, both in terms of objectives, operations and resource planning, and actually in the direction of the Minister, the question of this long-term perspective will then be raised: how can you see whether we now have the opportunity to resource the internal security authorities and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u79	Mr President! I have been allowed to sit on the Administrative Committee for six years now and I would like to begin this debate immediately by thanking the government parties and other opposition parties for a very good working climate. We had an exceptionally good working climate, which is also reflected in this report by the Administrative Committee as honesty, transparency and the ability to look problems straight in the eye.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u82	Mr President! Customs is generally not considered to be an organisation for internal security, but it is to a very large extent. It is my wish that: Customs will be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior as soon as possible. As a preliminary investigation authority Customs specialises in the prevention, detection and detection of foreign traffic offences. These, if any, are internal security. Effective customs clearance systems will be a basic requirement in the future to ensure that customs controls and the conditions for the fight against crime are in place, and hopefully this reform will be brought to an end as soon as possible. Customs has had to adapt for a long time, and for them cuts in state productivity programmes have already been put in place in advance. This year Customs will reduce staff by around 80 people, which is a very worrying trend for the internal security operator. So I ask Minister Risiko: will Customs be an organisation under the Ministry of the Interior in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u83	Mr President! It is good to join Mrs Kari in her speech on the good working spirit of the Administrative Committee, which is, in fact, almost a contribution to overall security, and also to Mrs Kulmala's speech on the situation in Customs. We talk a lot about internal security resources and deficits, and rightly so. It is important that, in the event of a change in overall security, we are able to secure sufficient public authority resources, but that is not enough. It is equally important to consider that we can reduce the need for services and how we can invest in these preventive services. I would like to ask the Minister: when a strategy for internal security is being taken forward by various ministries, how does the Ministry of the Interior support this work, that we can also reduce the continuing increase in the need for police services in this situation of total security?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u84	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Eerola, Chairman of the Administrative Committee, for a good introduction and to Mr Risiko, Minister of the Interior for a good speech. I would also like to point out that, although this report in itself is already limited to the remit of the Ministry of the Interior, we need to find some new ways in this Chamber to promote overall security, in particular through these so-called soft means, in addition to these traditional security aspects, such as the police. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior Risiko: would the Ministry of the Interior have the opportunity to think about some new avenues or channels for how we could better address security challenges that are not the so-called strong security threat? You yourself referred to exclusion as one of our worst problems. Could the Ministry of the Interior have some new openings?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u85	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the members of the committee, all of you, for your good cooperation. This was a good squeeze from all of us. I would also like to pay attention to this revenue side of taxation, when there has been a lot of communication, especially from professional drivers, about this kind of illegal cabotage, which has been on the increase. Tax revenue is lost, drivers drive up to EUR 3 per hour, or they have large fuel tanks, where they sell fuel here in Finland and make sure that it is their salary. We have taken a certain position on this issue of heavy traffic control. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is a plan like this, in what way this Finnish heavy-duty traffic control on the roads would be enhanced and in this way the possibilities for Finnish work and Finnish transport operators to compete internationally would be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u86	Mr. Speaker! In front of this report and also ahead of the approaching midwayer, we will have to consider what price is estimated to be the safety of Finns. And what is worrying is that, even in this very last year, this sense of security has been reduced in research. The report states that 100 additional police officers would cost EUR 6 million, 1000 additional police officers EUR 60 million. So it is not a matter of large and impossible sums of money to get this police figure right. When you admitted at the recent Question Time that the amendment to the Alcohol Act would mean hiring 300 additional police officers, I ask: Would it not be worth noting that law, leaving those strong beers and ciders there on Alko's shelves? Are you going to do this in the middle row? I also ask you: what is that?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u87	Värderade Talman! I would also like to thank you for your good work on this report and also on the report. The report talks about immigration, and the report on internal security also talks a fair amount about immigration, and focuses on this issue of the undocumented. This question can be approached in many ways, on the one hand, to consider how to remove the negative decision from the country, or to consider how to try to keep them within society while they are in the country. After all, this temporary residence permit was removed by the previous government and there was a clear risk that this might increase the shadow economy and drive them out of society, as it were, and that is clearly what has happened. Have you, Minister, wondered whether this problem should be approached from another perspective and whether temporary residence permits should be reinstated?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u88	Mr President! The UTP report, the defence report and this internal security report — perhaps it will be worth considering in the future their simultaneousness, they are so closely intertwined. Thank you to the Government and the Minister for making rapid decisions in a rapidly changing security situation. The government has rightly focused on security, both internal and external. Resources are important here when it comes to the police, Raja, the Defence Forces, the rescue services and Customs, but I also encourage the updating of competences, both in terms of intelligence legislation and decision-making processes. I am pleased that the Minister has again raised this issue of exclusion and inequality. It is very important that every Finn should feel worthy of defending this country, but also a country that takes care of us all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u89	Mr President! I'm glad we're having a debate on internal security. We have seen right-wing radicalism in Europe in recent years, violent things like school shootings in Finland and then violent jihadism, where these fighters have then struck. There are Brussels, Paris, Nice, Berlin, London, Stockholm, St.Petersburg — all of the attacks are about like the ISIS manual. Now the question is how to recruit people for this, how to recruit these foreign fighters and others. Looks like it's coming like a drop at a time. It can be alienation, it can be false religious teaching in basement mosques, it can be different school bullying, it can be experience racism, experience exclusion, marginalisation. A variety of things can also push a person into such a very unfortunate career. In this respect, I believe that the only answer is a confidence society, where everything is involved, but also a confidence society in which public authorities and citizens discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u90	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for putting security at the top of the next half-way. I would like to comment immediately on Mr Adlercreutz's proposal that a temporary residence permit be given to a person who has received a negative asylum decision, that I do see it as a totally wrong signal and that it is also a complete failure of the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u93	Mr President! When it says 'internal security is the cornerstone of democracy and a welfare society', I think the other way around. I think that democracy and the welfare society are the cornerstone of our internal security because, for example, when you look at the annual MTS study, which asks people what causes them insecurity, it is inequality and unemployment. [Department : Immigration! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u94	Mr President! It is a very valuable thing that internal security has finally been raised to its proper place in the form of this report, when at last this concept of comprehensive security is true and recognised here too. After all, during this parliamentary term the Sipilä Government has given these three reports on security, and all three of them together will certainly give us a strong back seat in this changed situation together to answer these questions. As Mrs Parviainen pointed out, internal security is not just an activity of operational authorities. These social issues have already been raised, including exclusion, in many ways. And I would like to ask the Minister: how do you personally feel about whether cross-sector relations are sufficient to contribute to our internal security?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u95	Mr President! The Border Guard is an excellent authority in the sense that they also have the authority of the police and, if necessary, the military, and the Border Guard carries out some 600 police missions, 1,300 search and rescue missions and 600 emergency services each year. In other words, especially when our country is sparsely populated and large, the importance of the Border Guard is emphasised. And I would have asked the minister: How will the future framework take into account the fact that the resources of the Border Guard will be maintained? And when it is known that, for example, around 40% of border control staff have been reduced, how do we take this into account, that the Border Guard also has these other assisting tasks and that they constitute such a complementary resource?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u96	Mr President! First of all, thank you to all the parties represented in the Administrative Committee. This work has certainly been a confidence-building task for the citizens too, because in matters of security — whether external, internal or, for example, hybrid security — we need to give them a crystal clear, clear message that there is less politicisation in these matters and that we share a common view on how things should be handled. And that is why it is important for internal security here to be conducted in the same spirit of cooperation as in the report on foreign and security policy. Thank you also to Paula Risiko, the Minister for the Interior, who has now managed to make this one of the government's top projects within the government. I'd like to ask you a question. How can international cooperation be further strengthened in order to strengthen internal security on the domestic side? Isn't that more important every day?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u97	Mr President! I would also like to thank Minister Risiko for pointing out this exclusion and also the importance of recruiting people from different ethnic backgrounds, for example, to the police. In this regard, I would also like to share the concern of Commissioner Kolehminen about the increase in hate speech. I think that there is now a real need to find such security and confidence-building measures. One would be to recruit more from different ethnic backgrounds to the police too. Sometimes these obstacles to recruitment are very simple, but they need to be clarified. In Norway, for example, it was discovered that the obstacle to many people with an immigration background was, for example, swimming skills, and when they started to teach swimming skills in the police school, it opened up the possibility of becoming a police officer to a great many women and men with different ethnic backgrounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u98	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Laukkanen, Raatikainen and Tolvanen. Then we will take the Minister's reply, and then we will take another round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u99	Mr President! When you read this report, the Committee's opinions time and again state that this resource gap, which is highlighted here, must be addressed. Now that you understand and see that the representatives of the government parties are leading these committees, even those who point out this lack of resources, a sincere question to Minister Risiko: where does the shoe squeeze when the government does not find this money for this, which the nation nevertheless regards as one of the most important sources of funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u100	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Risiko, for mentioning that the recruitment of the police will be kept at the same high level as they have been. Hopefully, language requirements will also be maintained at the level they are currently at.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u106	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Administrative Committee for a good report. I fully share the concerns about resources, and the police would need, for example, 50 million emergency aid immediately. Then I would like to thank the Minister for his good work when he made his internal security or security issues a top priority. However, I do not quite want to criticise this report, because it is quite historic. It's done together with the defense report. There's a lot of similarities. It's perfectly justified. Strategy and implementation plans are being drawn up, and this should be the case. We can make good progress here. But this goes back to the last season. I was chairman of the parliamentary working group where Mr Kari was vice-chairman. We wanted to start a report like this, but we also wanted the funding to be more long-term than one parliamentary term, and that is not yet happening. I would like to ask the Minister when I know that you are even doing miracles: what on earth could you do now to make this funding longer than two years, so that it would go on for the next parliamentary term and that the hand-to-mouth life would stop?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u107	Then Secretary Risikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u108	Mr President! I'll go in a little bit in the order in which these questions came. First of all, thank you for the excellent questions. They were firm and clear, and yes, we seem to have a common will, and I have sensed it before, but I feel that there is a security party here now. There is no opposition-government opposition, but together we make a safe Finland. Long-termism is one of the really important things that should be brought forward. I agree with you that we must invest in this, and this is the kind of exchange that has been secured for the next government. They're working on it. The concept of overall safety has risen on many occasions, and that is a good thing. But you said there was a hybrid hole. It's true. Recently, these hybrid threats have been discussed, and it has been recognised, recognised and identified in a certain way. That's what they're working for. For example, the Border Guard is making legislation specifically for these hybrid threats. We have also received such a hybrid competence centre, which has been established in Finland, as a joint acquisition of many different countries. That's great. We have a lot of expertise in that. I agree with you that the police, Raja, the Defence Forces and Customs must work together to ensure our overall safety and, in particular, to work together with coal, and much more could be done in this cooperation. Customs were raised here as one of the security authorities, and that is indeed what it is. I agree with you that I think it would be under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior, but I understand very well the points of view which differ on this point, and I am sure that the debate will continue, as has been explained. Well, then, some new openings were called for to these security challenges. We have new threats of this kind all the time, and then we have to catch them and anticipate them. Let us take, for example, these hybrid threats, which were not actually mentioned five years ago or two years ago. After all, it is only now that we have come to understand what this multifaceted effect is and is awakened to it. This is new, as is cyber threats and the dissemination of such false information. They are quite something strange that we have come across now. But then we have these so-called old threats of exclusion, which was very far in your speeches. What new openings could be made with regard to exclusion, I would like to call for this multi-sectoral cooperation and, for example, for information to be passed on. After all, we have some data protection problems in that information is not sufficiently transmitted from one authority to another. I also understand why it does not care because it is a matter of personal information, but we do not necessarily know about someone who needs help. Especially in the case of young people, we have that problem. We have developed this model of Ankkuri in the Ministry of the Interior, that is, the police, youth worker, psychiatric nurse and social worker, together, take up juvenile delinquents who need help, to think about this multi-sectoral assistance. There are good observations about it, and it has now been distributed to different parts of Finland by good-bye. I would say that new openings must now be particularly linked to exclusion, because we have so much of it, and when we talk about foreign fighters and their recruitments, many times, exclusion may indeed be the first step in this foreign action. We really do have a good sense of safety. Trust in the authorities is good. The police have been recognised by 96% of the citizens, the rescue side by 98%, so that we have confidence in the authorities. But that work must be done all the time to keep it going, and that is how the sense of security comes. But all such events around us have taken away a sense of security. Of those who are illegal in the country, you said this that the temporary residence permit has been abolished. I do think that when it was removed in its time, there was a good argument for it. We cannot leave in such a way if someone refuses to leave — if there is a final decision and he refuses to leave — that we should grant him a temporary residence permit of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u111	Then there is the opportunity to ask for answers again, and Mr Zyskowicz will begin the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u112	Mr President! Finland is the safest country in the world, and we must work together to ensure that it continues to be the safest country in the world, because guaranteeing external and internal security for citizens is one of the most important tasks of the state. It is a great thing that the government, in preparing for this mid-term debate, has made the strengthening of security one of the most important objectives. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party strongly supports Minister Risiko in his efforts to secure the resources of this sector in the mid-term debate. Under other circumstances, the overly tight budgetary frameworks for the coming years must not prevent the necessary additional resources from being decided. In addition to resources, we need all the powers of our security authorities under the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u113	Mr President! Yes, safety is an important theme, and it is great that safety in everyday life also comes to the core here. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also issued an opinion on this report by the Government, and we noted that this is limited, but that is how this statement stated that such a study under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior would be carried out. I would like to raise the issue of cyber and hypersecurity, especially in the hospital world, which is very important when we talk about safety — that people can get help and care without frightening threats. Think of what it would be like to be attacked or hospitalized. I would also like to draw attention to the initiative I have taken in relation to improving the safety of older people. Now that the internal security strategy is being updated, in what way, Minister, will you take into account, for example, these very issues of everyday security, exclusion, such as improving the safety of older people? Illegally Landed
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u114	Mr President! When this report has been praised, I would encourage you to move the long lights over your eyes and praise this report, because it is the work of the working group of officials. I myself was allowed to be a member of the Foreign and Security Policy Observatory and also as a member of the Monitoring Group on the Defence Policy Report for almost two years now, but in the work where it would have been necessary to have a parliamentary presence here on the Internal Security Report. Not only do I hope but, in fact, I even dare to insist that, in the future, when a new internal security report is made, a parliamentary monitoring group will be set up for this work, and on such a valuable point at the moment we will be closed. A working group has been presented on intelligence law to propose the creation of a Committee on Intelligence. When I mentioned this on my blog,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u115	Mr President! I took up the Minister's comment that trust in the authorities in Finland is still good. In this context: After all, these negative asylum decisions have moved the church and even the bishops have criticised these negative asylum decisions, there has been a request for a temporary residence permit and so on, without thinking at all of the fact that the authorities are likely to have had very good and well-founded reasons to take a negative decision on asylum. So the church, even under the leadership of the archbishop, has begun to criticise and even undermine confidence in the decision-making capacity of officials and authorities. Minister, how should we feel about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u116	Mr President! Here, too, the Minister raised these hybrid threats, and others have spoken of them, and it occurred to me that when the nature of the hybrid threat is such that it is something new, something that has not necessarily been experienced before and which may not have been prepared, a potential evil-willing player will certainly also be able to examine Finnish legislation and find out whether there are gaps between authorities, for example, in such a way that the powers are not seamlessly transferred from one authority to another. I would like to ask: will this be taken into account when legislation is being developed, i.e. the fact that, for example, the transfer of tasks from the police to the Defence Forces is smooth in both directions? The Border Guard must also be taken into account and Customs also. As has been said here that Customs should be under the authority of the SM, it would be very welcome in this respect, for a possible crisis would be:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u117	Mr President! I would like to pay tribute to the Minister and the Government for the intelligence legislation package that has now been sent to the consultation. I hope that, in due course, this will also be welcomed by Parliament and will be happy to have these legislation adopted during this very parliamentary term. Cross-border data intelligence is carried out across the borders of our country by the authorities of other countries, all our neighbours. That is why I think why we should not trust the authorities in our own country: limited and deliberate intelligence could be carried out when national security is threatened. In addition to the need for adequate resources and competences for the authorities, there is also a need for cooperation between the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u118	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to join in the thanks that touched this good spirit of the committee. This report has been carried out in good cooperation across opposition and government boundaries. I would also like to thank the Minister. Here the RKP, with two representatives, is proposing that people from different ethnic groups be required to become a police officer. I'm sure it is. But it is precisely here that we must ensure that this level of demand must not be any easier on the basis of a different colour of the face or something else that comes from a different culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u122	Mr President! I try not to be provoked, but when we talk about these undocumented people, contrary to what is believed here, the greatest threat to security is, in fact, related to the crime they are subjected to. Even now we have received reports, just as we already know all over the world, that if a person is in such a hopeless situation, that he cannot get help from the authorities, the criminals will exploit him in working life, but also in prostitution, the sex industry. I would like to ask because many of them, for example, may be victims of trafficking in human beings and this whole issue of violence against women has not been raised in this internal security report: is it coming? There is a great deal of need for cooperation that goes beyond the ministries. The police have started well, but perhaps it would also be important to create a new momentum towards the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u123	Mr President! The present state of internal security and financial resources are far from balanced. That is probably the conclusion of this debate. I would like to draw attention to one detail, and this is based on the debate with the police. The police are very concerned that money is not enough to work against drugs specifically for young people, and clearly money is not enough to get these addicted young people into treatment immediately, i.e. there are no places for treatment. Today, when it is possible to accurately assess drug use from wastewater analysis, I wondered whether it could be true that in some major cities the use of methamphetamine has increased 15 to 20 times over the year. It tells us pretty far where we are and what the problem is, and when we know about exclusion and polarisation, I think that this is really the kind of target that needs to be considered within the police — Customs, the Defence Forces, anyone and any authority —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u124	Mr President! In this report, it says here, jointly written by us, that 'the report does not correspond to Parliament's mandate to produce an internal security report', i.e. to what the previous Parliamentary Administrative Committee has required. Second, it says: "The report is an adjustment plan which leads to a deterioration in internal security." This is also the joint opinion of the Administrative Committee. Now the question is: knowing this preparation, which has only been done by officials under the Ministry of the Interior, now that a strategy is under way for internal security, I would like to confirm from the ministers that there will be a much wider involvement of these other authorities in this work. And the next time we are able to make an internal security report, it should also include civil society, organisations and even parliamentarians, as well as the preparation of other reports, in order to obtain a parliamentary guarantee in advance rather than afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u125	Mr President! The Minister spoke of exclusion just now, and I would like to ask about this situation: According to Statistics Finland, there were 155 municipalities in Finland in 2014, where the gender distribution of young adults was at least as unbalanced as in China – otherwise it has started to work on this issue. Now that there will certainly be confrontation, with a large number of immigrants and a large number of men, because refugees in these countries are usually men, how has the minister or government reacted to this situation? For example, are they throwing pumped barbarians at them that those men are allowed to take, or something else, that there will be no rapes and things like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u127	Mr President! It is important to maintain the functioning of Customs and Evira, for example. Falsifications of medicines, falsifications of food, spare parts are international crime, and Finland is not safe from them. These aspects should be taken into account. Another point I would like to comment on is the kind of hype that relates to the Internet of Things and the introduction of all possible devices into the network. I hope that, when setting up the hybrid centre, we will pay attention to this. Root On the business page, I read that the manufacturer of premium headphones is accused of spying. So it's almost like a device connected to a network that can spy on people and go very deep into privacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u128	Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of alcohol policy, society and human life when they do not go quite according to the qualifications of the ministers' portfolios and administrative branches. Although the minister said that a survey of the alcohol law in the consultation revealed that 300 more police officers would be needed, it must be noted that this amount of work could certainly be spent far more wisely than on solving the increased alcohol damage, given this overall safety package. In that sense, I would also like internal security to prevent the pressure exerted by these other laws on internal security resources. I therefore hope that the government will now understand how serious the lack of resources and the situation of resources are being brought into Finland's internal security through this reform of the Alcohol Act. Would the Minister still be able to influence this issue within the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u129	Värderade Talman! On this earlier question of temporary residence permits: The statement that was adopted during the last period was this: "The impact of the proposal on the risk of illegal residents being exploited, e.g. in trafficking in human beings or in the black economy, or having to support themselves with begging or crime." We know the answer to this question at the moment, which is why it might be good to respond to it. Congressman Korhonen spoke of trust. You can crush it in a lot of ways. The Group Chairman of the Finns Party, Terho, recently wrote that, at the request of the Finns, the number of negative asylum decisions has increased. It refers directly to political influence, and this is precisely what undermines confidence in the authorities. How do you see this, Minister? How do you see the responsibility of politicians in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u130	Mr President! You, the representative, raised a very good theme: how can we prevent trafficking in human beings, victimisation, grey employment, the informal economy and the fact that people who are unauthorised in the country, for example, become victims of trafficking in human beings? We can see this humanitarian side here, and it is precisely for that reason that it is better for those who are illegally resident themselves to be returned to the country of origin as soon as possible and not to be given the opportunity to stay here in Finland. It is also the case that their situation needs to be considered. There are also small children, and we do not know how much of the children who came to Finland, for example, have disappeared from trafficking in human beings. This is also an important issue. Mr Biaudet, you have raised the issue of violence against women, and that also has to do with this. Out of sight, out of mind. If you stay on the street illegally, we don't know what's gonna happen to them. As soon as possible, return. And score points for the Kuopio police: you managed to prevent the crimes that asylum seekers intended to commit, they were going to rape women.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u131	Mr President! I think it is justified that this report should focus on the Ministry of the Interior, because if it had been extended, it would still be done. The fact is, however, that the world is changing much faster than these reports are. No matter what memos we make here, reports, the world changes. And now, in this strategy and implementation, this perspective is greatly extended. After all, the government and Minister of the Interior Risikko have not been sitting around waiting for any reports and strategies, but the minister has been making every success of increasing internal security money, or canceling any cuts, however you think about it, but still: Adding at least 400 police officers a year to their education, starting training, and there are now practically 20 unemployed police officers. Fixed-term police posts have been extended and additional resources have been allocated to analytical activities, assistance. This goes on in that row. But here I throw the idea into the air: when this kind of intelligence committee comes here perhaps, then should we also in Parliament change the working methods,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u132	Mr President! Good internal security obviously requires seamless, continuous cooperation between the authorities and also involving organisations and citizens in this work. There's no way you can outsource security. It's the result of how different people work every day. However, would it be possible to develop in public authorities, in their structures, so that, on the one hand, PTR cooperation would be seamless and, on the other hand, overlapping activities could certainly be reduced so that these excessively low human resources would not pose such a serious threat to our security? In other words, how can we improve our security other than by increasing human resources, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u133	Mr President! The cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard, the so-called PTR activity, has worked well. Depending on their tasks, cooperation between the authorities has been particularly exploited in sparsely populated areas, on the border of the kingdom, on the principle of the nearest patrol. Years of cutting public authorities’ resources are leading to the concentration of each PTR authority on its core tasks. I find this trend extremely regrettable, as it has done its own work. Customs has also carried out border checks on heavy-duty drivers under its supervision under the responsibility of the Border Guard and, accordingly, the Border Guard has carried out border checks at the time of the border inspection. Duties falling under the responsibility of Customs. I believe that such action is a very sensible pooling of resources, and it would be in the interest of all of us and of internal security to continue to do so. Minister, is there any hope that there will be more investment in this PTR in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u134	Mr President! In particular, according to the 2015 study, international terrorism, increased numbers of asylum seekers, developments in Russia and cyber threats raised concerns in the area of internal security, as well as confidence in the authorities’ ability to respond to these problems. In this report, the Committee on Administrative Affairs pointed out that the resources of the authorities are tied up, and even if it is possible to carry out basic tasks, the response times have increased and the criminal investigation rates have decreased and preventive action and preparedness has suffered. In this Chamber, too, Minister of Interior Risikko has creditably raised the question of whether there is a time and need for, for example, a service promise for such police services: how much resources and time will be spent investigating and investigating certain crimes. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is moving forward. One example of this could be:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u135	Mr President! As far as internal security is concerned, the Minister took a good position on the importance of preventing exclusion. It is the best guarantee of security when people are raised to tolerate one another. But the causes of exclusion are diverse, and responding to them requires diverse, diverse work and cooperation. I am now going back 50 years in thought. When I went to school, the police went to the school every year to tell me what the spirit of fair play is, how to behave, how dangerous drugs are, what a good way to help a friend. This kind of cooperation between the school and the police seemed to me to be a good, educational principle. My question is: is there still room for these resources to be added to the side so that from the very beginning we can make the impression that people will not be sidelined?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u136	Mr President! The police are being held tight financially. The Senate, which pays the money to the VM, raises the police rents so that in 2018, the rent costs of the police will rise by 2.5 million and by the end of the spending limits period by 10 million. You can't touch a police service network to cut rents. I hope that the government will consider solutions to this development that do not burden the police budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u137	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his very firm and public declarations of confidence. It is important that, in such a situation, confidence-building and clear communication from the state leadership is provided. The security and economic situation is what it is. We know very well that, unfortunately, every party has been at times sparing little of the resources of the security authorities. Now we seem to have a common will in this Chamber to increase the budget. I would like to thank Mrs Risiko for the small amount of money she has already received last autumn, even the slightly larger amounts that have been received, but now we need more in the spending limits debate. One last point I would like to make about this fundamental principle of the rule of law. I have heard certain Members of Parliament say in recent weeks that legislation on immigration, among other things, would not have to be complied with if they thought it was morally wrong, and that is a big question. If a congressman who's been passing the law,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u138	Now the debate has been held for quite a long time. I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Laukkanen, Mr Kopra and Mr Biaudet. Then the Minister's reply, then the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u139	Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw a very significant attention to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights: 'the Committee draws attention to the contradiction of the report between objectives and reality'. And here we are talking about this whole chain of activities involving the police, the prosecutor, the court and the prisons. If a single block is cut out of police resources here, there will be no situation in which the police are investigating, and then there will be a significant gap in legal security. There is nothing to blame, there is nothing to condemn, and so on. I appreciate Minister Risiko's tough speeches, but they have not yet been promised any euros this evening, so if you could get a little bit of reproof this evening, then you could sleep a little safer at night.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u140	Mr President! It is good to continue with this, and when I have talked to the police in different parts of Finland, that is, with those who do the hard and brutal work in the field, in the rain, in the wind and in the snow, the message is that the resources have been tightened to the limit and none can be taken away anymore. We need help in the field, more cops to work. When you read the report and follow the debate here, there seems to be a great deal of consensus that this is the direction in which we need to go. But now that it has been said that practically all policemen already have jobs, where do these new policemen come from? We already have the positive expectation that the mid-term review might lead to additional resources and more police posts, but where will they come from if everyone is already working?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u141	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Häkkänen has left now, but perhaps it is good for others to know that the Human Rights Centre, which operates in connection with Parliament, has a good course in human rights and can look at the basics of A to B, what are human rights and that all people have human rights. I do find it rather sad that it is said that it would be immoral to help another person in distress and to show compassion to another. I've never... So the ears fall out of the head when people talk about priests not being allowed to help people. After all, it is good that there are people in society who put themselves on the line and help another person in distress. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u142	Minister Risikko, five minutes, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u143	Mr President! Thank you again for your good comments. There was little criticism of the report itself that it was an adjustment plan and lacked such multi-sectorism. After all, at the time when this has been done, there has been a very clear line that this report is now being presented to the Ministry of the Interior's administration, and it has not taken such a multi-sectoral view so much, but the choice has been made then. In fact, I think it is a pretty good choice for that situation, and now that it has already been known that the strategy is being carried out in a multi-sectoral way, it will in some way supplement it, but I also understand the point of view of the Administrative Committee on this issue, absolutely. There was a good example of our future threats to cybersecurity: it was health information and the activities of hospitals. It is something that, for a reason of course, also concerns me as to how much information we have on the move on information networks that are extremely vulnerable and which wound people from very many points of view. With regard to intelligence legislation, you said, and thank you for that. Mr Räsänen, former Minister of the Interior, made an excellent speech on the need for intelligence legislation now, and the information intelligence that was now added from a Finnish perspective is a good addition to that. Not all countries have it, although intelligence legislation is in almost all our analogue countries, but this data intelligence is in a few countries and now also in Finland, and many others are building it. Mr Biaudet did make a good speech on helping victims of trafficking in human beings. I fully agree with you that if they need multi-sectoral assistance, and it does not help that the Finnish Immigration Service is considering it, it is precisely social welfare expertise that is needed, it requires legal aid and all sorts of things. Then we also have a programme of measures of this kind to support them, and, for example, this unit, which specialises in helping these people, has received very much positive feedback about it. What I have thought a lot about is how we learn about those who need the most help, how to get them to the so-called help rake, that now they need it. That is where we would need an exchange of information. Alcohol policy was also raised here, and it was called upon to do so. Well, the decision has been made, the law has been in the statements. Let us see what can then be done on the basis of statements, but let me say again: if the law goes forward like that, we need police officers. It's just a fact. When a law is made, then the consequences and effects will be met, and the government will have to take that into account. Then there was the general question of the responsibility of politicians for internal security. Yes, politicians and our decision-makers, and especially here in Parliament, have a very great responsibility, for example, for how to treat another person, for what kind of image we give of how we want to influence the development of exclusion. It is not just a budget, it is a lot, it is much more. It is that we create new structures, that we create opportunities and that we get preventive work done so that no one is excluded. When a person is excluded, it is difficult to help him, and prevention is the most important thing. And then the hate speech. It is also one thing that the way we speak to others is of great importance, and we are in some way examples to our young people and children who follow our words. The Committee on Security and Defence Policy was presented here, and this was quite interesting. I am not taking a position on the names of the committees, but I have been thinking here that we have the Administrative Committee on Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on health safety. Yes, at least at some point this safety should be raised when it is, to a large extent, multi-sectoral. There should be some way to have that conversation. I myself have also called for this field of safety in Finland. Now we have taken research results and facts from different disciplines as the basis for decision-making, but we should have wide-ranging multi-sectoral multidisciplinary research programmes if we do not now have our own field of science. The division of labour and the flow of information is very important; money alone is not enough. PTR — a very important contribution. The Service Promise is being made as part of the Internal Security Programme. Exclusion is also there, and the safety of the elderly is also under the loop. I'm afraid the Senate properties are my troubles. I am not saying that as an organisation it is my grief, but the unfortunate properties with a lot of mold — and the evasive spaces cost money. I agree with you, Mr Ruoho, that we need to think about this situation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u144	Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u145	Mr President! On the basis of this debate which has already been held, the expectations regarding the mid-term debate next week are great, but fortunately this report, which we are now dealing with, also gives a very good backing to these negotiations by Minister Risiko, when the committee's opinion requires that the performance of key security authorities, such as the police, the Border Guard, the rescue services, the Emergency Response Centre Agency, Customs and the Immigration Service, be secured by a substantial strengthening of the financial basis for these authorities — and I will draw attention to the word essentially. So now we are not waiting for a minor change, but for a substantial strengthening of the funding base for these authorities. There's been a lot of talk here about the police. Two years ago, the number of policemen was still 7,250. We're already on our way there at a speed of less than 7,000. This development is, of course, intolerable in view of the challenges facing us in the current security environment, not to mention the fact that we want to make things easier for the police. Reduced resources force the police to prioritize emergency alert missions and the immediate security of people, i.e. to consider which tasks are being carried out and which are not being dealt with, and hence the resolution of crimes that have already taken place and the fight against crime may no longer be sufficient. What is also worrying is that the feeling of insecurity has increased. It was the most marked change in the previous year when the Finnish Defence Information Board conducted an interview survey on Finnish attitudes at the end of 2015, and two thirds of the respondents felt the future was now less secure, but in 2014 they thought a little over half. Of course, there are also concerns about issues outside our borders, such as international terrorism, development in Russia, cyber threats, and, with regard to the sense of security, it is essential that citizens trust the authorities' ability to respond to these new security challenges. We therefore need both sufficient resources and then sufficient powers for the authorities and also for the further improvement and development of cooperation between the authorities. Much has already been said about these police resources, but I would like to mention the fact that other Nordic countries are increasing their security authorities. So... Sweden has recently talked about hiring up to 10,000 new police officers by 2025. After all, they already have three times as many police officers in relation to Finland. It is also true, as the Minister has said here, that the confidence of Finns in the police and also the feeling of security is still at an international level, but unfortunately that situation is changing and should be responded to. Citizens should also have confidence that the police will also be able to deal with lesser crimes, such as small crimes of property and vandalism, because these are the ones that upset the sense of security of ordinary people when they come to their place. Mr President, I would like to return to this cooperation between the various authorities. Cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard in the fight against crime has been a very important asset, particularly in the investigation of serious and organised crime. But here it is precisely this deepening of cooperation and also the administrative reform, for example, so that Customs is transferred to the Ministry of the Interior, that there would be synergy and that it would also save costs if there was no duplication of work. The resources of the Border Guard are very important and must also be strengthened. After all, as the sole law enforcement authority, the Border Guard has the competence and competence to respond to threats to both internal and external security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u146	Mr President! There are a number of safety-producing organisations, but for a limited period of time, I will concentrate only on the police. Since the closure of the law enforcement districts and the establishment of the engagement societies in 1996, police action has begun to be dismantled from the point of view of taxpayers living in remote areas. There have still been moderate police officers in urban areas, but in sparsely populated areas the police have hardly been seen except in emergency missions and public talks. This is not even going to change with these prospects. It is important to maintain people's trust in the authorities, as it strengthens social cohesion, which provides the basis for security, a sense of security and a functioning society. The police are one of those authorities. The development of the number of policemen has already gone in a worrying direction for several parliamentary periods, as we have heard several times today. In 2010, the number of man-years of policemen was still 7850, but since then the level has fallen, and at the end of this year the number of policemen should be estimated at 7050. In the report, 7000 policemen have been recorded as minimum, but based on the current adjustments, the level will be 6300 police officers in 2020. I think that this is a completely unreasonable situation even now that you know and know the job description and the amount of police work. The police will be fine, but what about the citizen who needs help? Sometimes the waiting time is long, especially when someone comes in with an axe. It should be pointed out that police resource reductions are beginning to be the total size of the staff of the closed mobile police, that is to say, the savings. The reduction in the number of policemen is reflected, in particular, in the extension of operational capacity periods in sparsely populated areas. The number of alert missions per year is about one million for the police, of which 100,000 are still unaccounted for due to a lack of resources. In control and alert operations, the reduction in resources is reflected in a reduction in planned controls and preventive controls. The reduction in the number of staff will mean that the remaining working time will increasingly be spent on the tasks of alerts and the time of monitoring will be reduced more in relation to the activity of alerts. In addition, the number of solved offences is falling and more and more crimes are not investigated. According to the long-term police personnel needs development plan prepared in 2009 and updated in 2011, the total number of policemen in 2020 has been sufficiently estimated for 8296 person-years, which does not include the number of persons in the field period. I think this would be the appropriate number of police officers. However, this figure is a long way from the 6300, which in these prospects is a reality in 2020. At the moment we have police officers per thousand inhabitants 1,31, which is by far the least in the whole of the Nordic countries. There are already relatively fewer people in the police in administrative and licensing services than in most other government agencies. Further reductions would result in policemen carrying out these tasks as well. I don't see any sense in this kind of thing. In other Nordic countries, the number and funding of police officers will be increased. In Sweden, for example, additional funding of SEK 2 billion will be allocated to the police for this spending limits period. The aim is to increase the number of policemen and 1300 other workers. At the same time, we live in a birdhouse in Finland and hope that no one will notice us. At the same time, we want to be part of Europe, but we do not act as Europeans should. It should be understood that internal security is the cornerstone of Finnish democracy and the welfare society. A very positive thing is that the admission of the Police College of Applied Sciences is being increased by 400 students this year. Last year, only 57 policemen graduated as a gift from the previous government tomorrow, and that is not enough to cover the rate of retirement, which is about 300 every year. The objective of Pora III during the previous parliamentary term was to maintain the level of traffic control at least at the level at which it has been in the presence of the mobile police. Control of heavy traffic should be maintained at 2012 level. It can already be said that the objectives have not been achieved. It is envisaged that automated traffic control will carry out traffic control at the same time as traffic control resources are allocated to the maintenance of public order, security and criminal investigation. Let me be frank, this is the wrong way. As a result, there is expected to be a deterioration in compliance with traffic rules, which can contribute to an increase in the number of persons injured and killed in traffic. Positive development of road safety
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u147	Mr President! The world is changing, and we must do what we can to ensure that both experienced and actual security in Finland remains in good shape in the future. There have been changes in people's sense of security and in the internal and international security situation. In addition, intelligence laws, for example, are being prepared to respond to challenges such as terrorism and hybrid and cyber threats, which are also a reality in Finland. People’s trust in one another and in the authorities is the foundation upon which national security and all other well-being are built. It takes work to create and maintain it, but it is easy to lose it quickly. Everyone must be able to feel safe in Finland and feel able to get help in their own home, street, school and workplace. This applies to all of us. In the report we in the Administrative Committee draw attention to the fact that the report by the Ministry of the Interior alone does not sufficiently answer all the questions of overall internal security that affect people's daily lives and lives. Security doesn't look at administrative boundaries. Cooperation between authorities should also be supported and developed in a more flexible and smooth way. The internal security aspect should therefore be taken into account as part of a wider policy, not only as part of traditional security thinking, but also as part of so-called soft security measures. For example, we talked about preventing exclusion. Take, for example, the simple fact that a policy that increases social problems will therefore undermine public security and, on the other hand, a policy of prevention will, in turn, bring stability, prosperity and security. A more in-depth study of this subject would certainly be needed in Finland, as the Minister of the Interior, Mr Risikko, said in his speech. Fortunately, it is not just a question of resources. For example, at the end of basic education, care should be taken to ensure that no one really falls, and a genuine catch should be taken in the army’s call. Different extremist movements and extremists have also been nested in Finland. These are testing the boundaries of our free and open society. We need to be vigilant. The nesting of radical extremist movements in Finland must be rejected. At the same time, however, we must remember that we do not stigmatise groups of people or increase extremism by our actions or words. For example, the increased number of hate crimes tells of hardened attitudes that can also turn into acts. It is great that the police have allocated more resources to combat hate speech, for example, online, especially at a time when police resources are really tight. We also draw attention in the report to the fact that securing the number of policemen is more a calculated trick than a fact in the long run. All of us in this room have a place to look in the mirror. This is not just about the current government, the next government or the last, but it is a matter of common concern for us. Even though the government has made investments, the already small number of policemen threatens to fall even further in the coming years and the next government will find the matter on its desk. We need sufficient resources to increase the number of police officers in field work and investigations in the future. It would also be good to have people as police officers from different ethnic and religious backgrounds, as I said during Question Time. Mr President! Transnational problems also require supranational solutions. It is important for Finland to be involved in the construction of international security. For example, our crisis management work and development cooperation aim to create stability where situations are difficult. Work to combat conflicts in the world will also benefit the safety of our Finns. Conflicts, climate change and poverty have also created migration, which continues in the Mediterranean, for example. The weak situation in countries such as Libya, which are practically broken down, creates a breeding ground for cynical smuggling of human beings and other forms of crime that are most affected by those who seek protection or better life. These issues affect our situation, not only through the future of the EU, but also through our own situation as asylum seekers and the phenomena that it brings with it. In Finland we need a humane asylum policy and good integration. I believe that there is a glaring flaw, for example, in the difficulty of family reunification, in working family relationships when they are the best activity to integrate into society. Mr President! The Administrative Committee and other committees have done a great deal of work in preparing the reports and opinions of this report. I thank the committee colleagues. I believe that the report is comprehensive and well describes the circumstances in which we live. I would also like to thank the Minister for a thorough debate and I hope that we will be able to continue to work together on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u148	Mr President! I too share these thanks for the thoroughness of this report and also for this debate and for the fact that Minister Risikko has been able to sit here and listen to our speeches. I sincerely believe that, as Mr Räsänen said, he will also get a good back seat for the negotiations that will come to him. I would like to raise just a few more points in addition to a good debate: On page 35 of the report, the prioritisation of tasks is set out in point 6.9: "According to the report, as economic resources become scarce, action needs to be prioritised. However, the report does not provide any more precise justification for prioritising, although it is in the nature of the reporting procedure that it also contains sufficiently specific guidelines in such policies. Ultimately, it is a question of what statutory tasks are or are not carried out and not done in the absence of resources." This statement and statement here go directly to the legal basis that is solid in Finland. A lot has been said about the pillars here today, and this legal basis is one of the key elements of a society that Finland represents. And this reduction in funds at a practical level means, as a representative of the police administration said, that we are now beginning to have a situation where Parliament now has to tell us what the police are doing and what the police are not doing, or whether Parliament has to increase the budget, because the police have a starting point that when a crime happens it should always be resolved when a citizen comes to demand it, and now that can no longer happen. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has also stated in its own opinion on this matter that this situation is currently quite impossible. We cannot assume that we have regional inequalities in what tasks the police can carry out. In the capital region, certain matters are still taken care of, even what can be handled in the capital region or in large cities will no longer be dealt with in the sparsely populated area. We ourselves are creating a situation in which this legal basis is being broken. And when I say this, I fully understand that Minister Risikko understands what is going on here. If we voluntarily make such a choice now in this economic situation, which Finland has to live with, then these austerity measures are hardest placed on this side of the police. It's a bad choice. We are once again in a state where, in practice, it generates more costs than savings, and that is why these should be carefully assessed. As an alternate member of the Police Advisory Board, I am constantly receiving their very high-quality material, which is also well known to Minister Risikko. I think they are best placed to assess what the real needs are. They know them and follow and study and have tried to adapt to this situation, but now a certain limit has been reached. Mr President! In fact, this is the focus of this good debate and, in fact, the opening of a debate on what we want, what kind of legal basis will be in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u149	Mr President! So last May the Government has given Parliament a Government report on internal security, and we have discussed it today. It is the first of its kind, and that is why it is certainly appropriate to talk quite extensively about how this work will continue, because this is the beginning. The Committee on Legal Affairs has issued an opinion on this and has drawn attention to the fact that the report has limited internal security to perhaps above all those involved in the internal affairs administration. I personally think that this is regrettable. But this is a good start. The report also highlights, as other important internal security authorities, the role of courts, prosecutors' offices, the Criminal Sanctions Agency, Customs, social welfare and health services, but the role of other actors is not very much addressed. Trust in society, in the social capital of society — democracy, security networks, education — is, in my opinion, the cornerstone of this security, as has been well said in Mr Paatero's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u150	Mr President! Common values, well-being, democracy, reliable governance, the rule of law and functioning institutions form the basis for the stability and internal security of our society. The report before us rightly focuses on the so-called 'hard internal security', although internal security is not, as the report states, only the work of the safety authorities. We started the first internal security report of its kind in the Parliamentary Committee on Administration as early as last spring. The report and the ongoing internal security strategy work give us a picture of the situation as regards the changed security situation, the authorities' resources and measures as well as the future security prospects of our country. The reduced resources are sufficient to preserve and maintain the security of our country and our citizens only if they are properly targeted. This means that public authorities will have to make choices about how resources will be used most effectively in the future. With timely, well thought-out choices, we secure a functioning service organization. We must therefore be prepared to discuss and prioritise whether it is possible to prioritise the detection of certain crimes in terms of resources. It is important that, in the context of the change in overall security, we are able to secure adequate public resources, but it is equally important to contribute to reducing the growth in the demand for services, that is to say, investing in preventive services, preventing the exclusion of young people, unemployment and so on. The impact of preventive work must therefore be taken into account alongside the safety authorities. The more timely we are in a position to identify factors that lead to factors that endanger the security of society in different ways, the better. The less the total costs and human suffering will be. What is important, then, is how we can tackle the causes and not just deal with the consequences. Finns have a high level of confidence in the authorities responsible for security. In most cases, the eyes of decision-makers and those responsible turn to the things that can be measured. Attention must therefore also be paid to the timetable within which the police and other authorities are able to serve the citizens. Minister Risikko has rightly pointed out whether it would be time and need, for example, for police services to make a certain kind of service promise that would enable us to allocate resources more transparently and in a timely manner in a social sense. Mr President! Each safety authority has its own central role to play. The well-functioning PTR cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard is a good example of the effectiveness of cooperation between the authorities. PTR cooperation also works and enhances the resolution of crimes. It is important that the management responsibilities of the PTR authorities are clarified and specified in the internal security strategy work. This report on the role, responsibilities and place of Customs has also been completed in recent months. The report stated that the number of police officers would be established at around 7,000 police levels during this parliamentary term. For the Group of the European People's Party, this level is an absolute minimum below which we cannot go. The adequacy of the number of police officers should be regularly assessed, and it is therefore important that the government consider security as one of the top issues in next week's spending limits debate. The Government's approach to increasing the number of police officers in education is also essential. Security has been widely understood in the strategic work on internal security. Public authorities as well as civil society and business actors have been invited to work. We must be able to use each one's expertise and resources to strengthen the overall security of society. It is also important for Parliament to be informed about how strategy work is progressing. However, the common will is that Finland will continue to be a country where it is safe to work, try, study and live. To conclude briefly from the view of our young future makers that, according to the survey, young people still regard Finland as a strong trust society. It is therefore essential for citizens, operators, public authorities, those responsible and for our society as a whole that we focus on how we can continue to strengthen the confidence and focus on the things that promote confidence. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister and also the Chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola, Mr Korhonen and the Committee as a whole for the courage to make a comprehensive and longer-term report on internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u151	Mr President! That is where I am thinking to the committee when I draw up the report and when I read the internal security report, what exactly is internal security. I think it's to raise our children to be tolerant and to help each other. That's where it leaves home. What does it take for that home? It requires that parents have enough income and security to live and raise their children, that they are not bullied at school and that people are not excluded. These are the internal security infrastructure in which it is good to build a safe environment for our citizens. When this structure breaks down, we need authorities whose job is to help people in need to cope with the challenges of life. In this changing world, as new threats and increasingly different forms of crime increase, we have also noticed that Finland’s internal security structures are cluttering in its alliances. The assessment of what the government framework includes in order to achieve the balance and savings of the state's finances makes these marginal values of security move in an increasingly greyer direction. The unanimous report by the Administrative Committee shows that the extreme has been achieved with regard to resources. In many areas of internal security it also shows how saving also causes economic losses for our country. It is estimated that this is a financial loss of several billions. The annual dwindling of appropriations for the grey economy inquiry is a loss of tax revenue. Fortunately, to some extent they have always been partly restored in the course of the budget, for which the Minister is grateful. He has done well in that regard. Unfortunately, however, we are still losing large amounts of tax revenue due to the shadow economy. In addition, improving the professional supervision of heavy traffic is an important part of both Finnish transport entrepreneurs and the tax revenues of the state and municipalities and, above all, of road safety. More effective and professional supervision will improve the competitiveness of legal transport companies and the position of Finnish entrepreneurs. These are also the solutions that generate tax resources to maintain other internal authorities, as tax resources are needed to maintain the operations of both the Emergency Response Centre and the Emergency Response Centre, the Police and the Border Guard. These professionals, too, will continue to be needed, which is why we must continue to invest in adequate training and in the number and level of training. Mr President! This report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs well describes the situations in which, despite the lack of resources, good cooperation between the various administrative sectors has been achieved. Significant synergies and improved service efficiency have been achieved through PTR cooperation. Successful cooperation tasks have been carried out with the Defence Forces and various organisations, among others. This contributes to the fact that Finland knows how to settle matters and that it always achieves more. Unfortunately, the content of the report also reflects the fact that the authorities have been forced to yield. In that respect, the people of our country have suffered, and this is simply due to reduced resources. In this regard, we must thank these authorities for their good cooperation in giving in to tasks and new challenges. Unfortunately, however, I do not think there is any room for this constant tendency to the structures of Finland's internal security. At some point, constant deflection will break its spine, and it will be difficult to compensate for the damage. That is why monetary investments are needed to maintain the functioning of internal security. Thank you to the Minister for very clear answers today and for the willingness to develop in terms of internal security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u152	Mr President! In this dramatic change in the security environment, which is also ominously affecting the security situation in Finland, I see as an unsustainable development, firstly, that we already have the lowest number of police officers in Finland in principle in the Nordic comparison, and secondly, that the development would continue as a further reduction in the number of police officers. For example, at the moment police performance is still incomplete to ensure the safety of mass events, let alone that we have enough police officers without special events to set foot on the streets, where there is equally a risk of violent attacks — something that was recently witnessed in neighbouring countries, both in St. Petersburg and Stockholm. For some reason, St. Petersburg’s attack did not receive the same sympathies as Stockholm’s. Mr President! Now, according to the preliminary framework of the Ministry of Finance, if this framework were to be implemented by 2020, the 850 person-years would leave the police. And that is because between 70% and 80% of the police budget is staff costs. You have to remember that in the police sector, the only way to adapt is to put people away. That is something we cannot accept, as you, honourable Members, have all unanimously said here. We have a police officer who is one of the best educated, fair, fair, uncorruptible and honest in the world. That group of champions needs the necessary conditions to ensure internal security for our citizens. I believe that each of us understands the importance of security, not only for individuals, but also for the business community. The police, like other security actors, must be adequately resourced, and we must also have legislation to enable the police to have tools to maintain internal security. I would like to thank Minister Risikko and the Committee on Administrative Affairs for the internal security report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u153	Mr President! Minister, I too would like to thank you for this issue of internal security, which we are discussing here today, particularly the fact that the strategy will also be updated in the future. Of course, thank you also for being here to listen and answer questions. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also issued an opinion on this, and in our own opinion we raised the issues of well-being and safety, rescue services and emergency care. It has been great to hear that there has also been a great deal of debate about the safety of everyday life here. We raised the issue of exclusion, the increase in income differentials, the use of drugs, infectious diseases and factors affecting the safety of everyday life in general. With regard to emergency services and emergency care, we raised the issue of preparedness and the investigation of accidents and the maintenance of critical functions in society in the event of disruption. These are all extremely important and touching issues, especially the hospital world and the preservation of safety where I have already raised one point in my speech. It is really quite frightening to think about what would happen if a real threat came to the hospital, whether it is a cyber or a hyper-threat or, for example, a virus or a bacteria, whether it comes with the workers or whatever. We can paint any kind of threat. Safety is a feeling, and the feeling of safety in Finland has been weakened at the moment. We have to thank the Kuopio police for having succeeded in exposing the intended crime, where the asylum seekers' group was about to know that they were leaving the country, yet to succumb to crimes: thefts, thefts, even rapes. It is precisely this kind of prevention that we need and that we need more resources for the police to do just that, as was done in Kuopio, for example — of course, we also need the resources of the carers. As a nurse, you always have to bring out the nurses' resources and the police's resources as well. I would also like to highlight the idea of an increase in the number of older people in the future. In 2060, we will have around 1.79 million people over the age of 65. This means that we are surrounded by fragile and weak people, and we must do everything we can to take care of them as well. It was great to hear, Minister, when you mentioned that the safety of older people will also be raised in the update of the strategy when it is done. That's the way it should be. We had an incomprehensible crime in Espoo some years ago, which has still not been resolved, although the police surveillance camera picture was that people with mental disabilities were emptied of bank accounts with their own bank cards. This is in our series, though, that it would take Hercule Poirot to figure out who took it and why not get the money back. Mr President! The situation of illegal residents has also risen in the debate here. Yes, I see that for those who are illegally in the country, a quick return must be made to their country of origin. The current situation is not right for them either. There is also such a humanitarian idea, which must be thought of as the possible victim of crime itself, the victims of trafficking in human beings. What is their situation here in Finland when there is no place to go and no livelihood, and whether it will also provide a platform for the possible crime, so that the most vulnerable people, such as the elderly, are faced with these pickpockets. But these are all themes that have already emerged in the debate. It's great that the Internal Security Strategy is being updated. It's good to see the safety of everyday life coming up. Security is a feeling. Minister, you said very well that sleep is the best medicine. I would also lift from the old children's song its milk, its warm milk: "The milk with fresh warmth of help could bring, the grain raven white" — somehow this is how it goes — "maybe it will be safe." We now trust the Minister that we will be able to sleep well at night, and you will be able to do miracles.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u154	Mr President! The Internal Security Report has therefore been made for the first time, which is, of course, a good thing. However, in our report, the unanimous opinion of the Administrative Committee, there has been criticism, which, in itself, is probably quite justified, that it did not correspond exactly to what the Administrative Committee had previously hoped and needed, and, on the other hand, that it was a very resource-oriented criticism of both the work of the Administrative Committee and all the other committees that issued the opinion. The idea of an overall vision of security and social issues was not dealt with to the extent necessary but rather focused on the resource side, which of course is not trivial. This broader view of security, as I have already said, was reflected in the early statements that stated that internal security is the cornerstone of democracy and of a welfare society. In my opinion, it should be the other way around, so that we have internal security, the better we have democracy and the much better we have a welfare society and its services. This is what you actually see when people are asked what causes their insecurity. For the majority of people, they are unemployment, non-participation, inequality, exclusion. That's the everyday part of people's insecurity. It is not trivial that we are told that the security environment has changed. That is probably the case, and people's media literacy is, of course, one aspect through which more and more of that information comes, and then it's quite difficult to screen it. However, it must be borne in mind that when you look at the world, the number of people who have died in wars, terrorism, violence has decreased worldwide, Europe-wide and in Finland. The number of violent deaths in Finland has decreased. The number of robberies in Finland has decreased. But that does not mean that the task has been done because they still exist, but it must be remembered that even though you sometimes feel when you look at the media and hear that things have gone much worse, this is not the case, but Finland is a very safe country. Finland has one exceptional perspective when you look at other Nordic countries, for example. For us, alcohol-related crimes are multiple in terms of both violence and robbery and so on, and they are also visible there on the social and health side. Seventy per cent of the people who, for example, come to the emergency clinic when they are taken by police are intoxicated. A police weekend would look completely different if we had less drinking. For this reason, the question of the future amendment of the alcohol law is a conscious risk of the need for more police officers, as the Minister said, but it also means more violence, it means more family problems, it means more lonely children without food. This is regrettable, and this is what the police are telling us before the social workers do. With regard to these resource concerns, which are the so-called high level of security, the Administrative Committee has agreed together in these years, when I have been allowed to participate in it for a couple of years, and has said that there are changes in the need for resources for everyone, namely the police, the Emergency Response Centre, the Rescue Department, Raja and Customs. This involves the fact that this famous PTR cooperation, namely the police, Customs and Raja, has now reached the end of its path with these resources that this working model will be weakened if resources are not added. Three new things have been introduced when we have some convergence in these, when we talk about cybercrime, when we talk about information impact when we talk about hyper-crime, that is, all this is mixed up, but it is a new area for which new legislation is probably needed. We ourselves will be affected many times without being aware of it and, of course, there is also this question of intelligence law — it will certainly be necessary, but what kind of rules of the game will probably have to be brought back to it here. Last but not least, we have a different view of the place of Customs in this Chamber, because in the view of the social democrats, Customs is still primarily our foreign trade authority and not primarily the crime prevention authority. This is like this in all the countries of the world, two small ones, except for Oman and Bahrain. Customs is not just a crime fighter, it is part of our foreign trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u155	Mr President! After all, this overall security is a very broad concept and one can say that all citizens, associations, businesses, and, of course, public authorities are involved in it. Sometimes it might be said that a functioning social policy is the best criminal policy — it is a good reflection of what security is in a broad sense. I therefore believe that it is perfectly justified that this report, which has now been made, should be made subject to the Ministry of the Interior, because otherwise this report would still be carried out. The world is changing so fast that that report would be history by the time it was completed. It is important for the future strategy and its implementation to be more comprehensive, as I know it is now. It's really important. Now that we're talking about resources, The resources must be available to all authorities — then the emergency services, the emergency services, Customs, the border, the police — so that these authorities can ensure the safety of citizens. Security and justice are the cornerstone of this society, I say it this way. It is the foot of our democracy, but it is also our reputation in that world and it is very important for tourism and business. That is why, and that is also why, we must invest in this internal security, of course, primarily in the security of our citizens. We are now clearly at the pain limit because this environment has changed a great deal. In fact, research has shown that people are increasingly afraid. Until the end of last year, the total crime rate fell, although there was an increase of almost 500 % in sexual offences, for example, and in the case of means of payment or fraud very much, but, unfortunately, according to the latest statistics, the total crime rate has also increased. That's a bad thing. After all, fear and reality do not always go hand in hand, and people are really afraid according to recent studies, but the feeling of safety usually increases, however, that their own affairs are in order, that family matters are in order, that work is in order. But there will be a fireman, a police officer and a border guard — enough to secure these tight spots. They need more cops just because when people take a bicycle, they'll have time to look into it. If these are not investigated, such a sense of justice will crumble. These are important things. Then when you go to this kind of hard security, then of course it also takes resources, because at its worst — i.e. at worst, what is unlikely to happen — the first person to receive a serious hybrid attack like this is a police officer or a border guard and only after that the Defence Forces, if they can be made operational any longer. The legislation should be right that such an unexpected blow does not happen. Therefore, although the Constitution is now being tested, intelligence legislation must be implemented as quickly as possible. It should have been in operation ten years ago, when the fact is that we too will one day have another serious crime. We have come to all evil from the world, late and smaller in shape. It was once out of drugs, then organized crime, gangs of criminals, school shootings, honour violence and various bombings, like Myyrmanni. Therefore, there must be such legislation that can save lives. The fact is that a law was passed here during the last parliamentary term on criminalising the preparation of serious crimes against life or health. It was resisted from time to time very fiercely, but partly because of this it has been possible to save lives: school shootings have been prevented and the attack on the University of Helsinki has also been prevented. These are the same elements of intelligence legislation. The authorities must be adequately resourced, and the activities must be compatible and smooth, including for Customs — Customs is an important authority in many respects. But, as I said briefly, should we also look a little in the mirror? Firstly, the Ministry structure does not support overall security to any extent, and neither do we in Parliament. We have security issues decentralized in a number of different committees, that there is a need here too for the Security Committee to set up, and that could be a question of overall security?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u156	Mr President! So much of that hate speech that today it is very easy to get a note in your hand. But let me give you an example: During the so-called guilding, if you criticized the Soviet Union, you were attacked by journalists but not by the judiciary. If, among other things, you told about the crimes, rapes, murders committed by the dean, the media simply told you that this was not true, even though the citizens knew. Today, you get a conviction — a note on your hand that you slap. We also discussed the Internal Security Report last May. I quote from the speech I gave at the time: "It is clear that the greatest threat to Finland's internal security is the progress of Islamisation. In every Western country, it has meant an increase in crime and an increase in and sharper confrontation between the population and, of course, increasing taxes and payments to cover the support of the wingers. Thousands of asylum tourists are missing in Finland. The future will be very dark if this continues. Lines closed, and the best insulation for Islamization is barbed wire." That is what I said. Mr President! Sad to say, the situation has not changed since that debate almost a year ago than it has changed in a worse direction. The Dublin Agreement is still not being respected, and the Western border is leaking as a sieve, and there is no way of breaking down the land illegally fast enough and effectively. Many EU countries have introduced border controls, at least temporarily. We should do the same as a matter of urgency at our western border, especially when, at this time of year, the flow of fire is likely to accelerate. On the other day, the Finnish News published an article that reported that even half of asylum seekers have more than one identity, according to a report by the Swedish Tax Office. In some cases it is a deliberate diversion of the authority. Once an additional identity has been created, its existence makes it difficult for the authorities to operate effectively and to use their identity for criminal activities. The case found that several identities of asylum seekers in Sweden became the subject of debate after the terrorist act in Stockholm. The suspect, Rahmat Aklov, had several identities and managed to avoid the execution of the removal. Someone else has also been working on Akulov's identity. According to the article, this suggests that identities and associated work permits are a commodity. There have been reports in continental Europe of cases where asylum seekers have had up to nine different identities. It is pointless and childish to imagine that we would have more honest and decent people from the same countries of origin than, for example, Sweden, Germany or France. Oh, by the way, there won't be. Mr President! It can't and shouldn't be that anyone, anyone, anyone, anyone, who knows what identity can just step on a ship and come in here. We must learn from the mistakes of other countries and protect our own people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u157	Mr President! It would be important to keep the first link of the internal security chain strong. The Internal Security Report states: "Emergency Centre activities are one of the most important activities that directly affect trust in public authorities and society." When you read the figures of this year's budget and the scarce resources of the Emergency Response Centre, you can only wonder how the Finnish State is trying to maintain the above-mentioned trust. It's up to us decision-makers. During the period 2011-2015, the number of personnel of the Emergency Response Centre has decreased from 763 to around 600. Within the framework of the financial framework, the number of staff has continued to decline. The Emergency Response Centre Authority will also have to continue its adjustment efforts in 2017 and postpone investments on the basis of previous savings decisions. The strategy 2016–2020 of the Emergency Response Centre Finland aims to create one virtual emergency centre in Finland that operates at several locations. This requires effective information systems. On the positive side, the long-running reform of the Emergency Response Centre is at the end of the cycle with the current focus on the deployment of the Emergency Response Centre Information System Erica. With the reform of the Emergency Response Centre and the new networked emergency centre information system, the current level of emergency centre activity requires staff levels of approximately 600 person-years. In practice, the future model means that a single Emergency Response Centre operator will receive a call from any country in the future. Of course, such activities include opportunities but also threats. From the point of view of the individual emergency centre operator, it is only to be hoped that the allocation of responsibilities has been taken into account in different situations. In the event of an accident, it is not right that the Emergency Response Centre operator is alone in answering the charges. In particular, these expectations are directed towards the establishment of a management centre. It would appear that the Emergency Response Centre Agency will be able to survive this year through the savings that have been made since last year. In future, our decision-makers will have to ensure that the operation remains sound. Mr President! Just a little more police business. One of the police’s priorities is to integrate violent radicalisation and the prevention of extremism into the police’s preventive action in 2017. The main concern is, in particular, the extension of the impact of the Syrian conflict to our country. The greatest threat is the radical Islamic-motivated individual actors and small groups who have visited Syrian battlefields. In some way, the total number of people sympathetic to terrorism has already risen to some 350 people in Finland. The protection police are currently under-resourced due to changes in the operating environment. If the protection police are to be able to carry out their duties, the Agency's resources must be improved over a long period of time. It is important for this action that the intelligence legislation can be updated as soon as possible. Minister, do we have any hope that intelligence legislation will be brought to an end as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u158	Mr President! Although the Government's report on internal security is, in its own way, quite harsh in some respects, it does provide a good overview of the current security threats. Extensive immigration, international terrorism and violent extremism are now more topical than ever, especially after the very unfortunate terrorist attacks in our neighbouring countries, to which Mr Ruoho referred above. It is good that these threats have been said out loud in the report and thus we have the opportunity to reject them. The long-standing decline in the resources of the police and the Border Guard has affected the operating conditions of the safety authorities. Fortunately, corrective measures have also been taken, such as an increase in the number of police training. Of course, limited resources must also be used cost-effectively in the field of safety. In response to numerous threats to internal security, the Government's asylum policy action programme must be fully implemented as soon as possible. This means, among other things, setting up return centres for asylum seekers who have received a negative decision. Similarly, changes to intelligence legislation must be brought to the end as a matter of urgency. Mr President! There is no desire to restrict the privacy of citizens, even though this has been claimed in some cases. However, in the course of its implementation, data intelligence shall be accompanied by an independent authorisation procedure and an independent control system to ensure legal security. Mr President! Finally, I hope that the threats mentioned in the Internal Security Report will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u159	Mr President! The Government will do everything in its power to bring Finland back to growth, and there are promising signs of this. The opposition does not seem to be satisfied with any government action, but there is a desire for more immigration, and not even illegally, that is to say, those who are delinquently here should be reinstated. The negative consequences of immigration in our countries and elsewhere are indisputable. For all sectors, such as the internal security that we are talking about here, this means increasing costs. Since the opposition does not think anything should be cut off, I would like to ask the left-hand side where that money will be taken. I've asked this question many times here, I've never received an answer. And it is not just about money: Security and a sense of security cannot be bought. When they are shaken, they are difficult or impossible to return. In December 2015, the Government published its asylum policy action programme. The program is largely in the handwriting of the Finns of Finland. Among other things, it reads: "If the functioning of the Dublin system cannot be restored, the government is preparing for exceptional national measures to ensure similar effects. We will return the so-called Dublin cases immediately. If necessary, we will set up new facilities and accommodate asylum seekers in tent and container accommodations. No reception allowance or other social benefits shall be paid for the time spent in the Centre." The operational programme is very good, but too much time has been wasted to implement it. Now we have to start following the last letter. Mr President! We have a worrying number of Finns, especially young men, who have fallen outside the normal functions of society. This development has been going on for a long time, so it is unnecessary for the Red Greens to blame the current government for it. Helsingin Sanomat published 15 last year. May article titled Alone. According to Statistics Finland, there were 155 municipalities in Finland in 2014, or even before this massive immigration avalanche, where the gender distribution of young adults was at least as unbalanced as in China. What does the great figures look like now that tens of thousands of asylum tourists have arrived here, the overwhelming majority of whom are young men? In addition, if people who do not want to work and who do not have language skills open up by-passes, for example in housing queues, the confrontation will increase and escalate. I'm sure no one would want that. Finnish affairs must be handled first, and world healing can be practiced if there is time and money left.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u160	Mr President! At the end of the day, a little bit more from the Border Guard: The primary task of the government is to ensure the safety of society and all its members. The key task is border control and who will be admitted and under what conditions, and also how long the country can be illegally present and how the return of those who have received a valid negative asylum decision can be carried out. At the beginning of the 1990s, approximately one quarter of the staff of the Border Guard have been reduced. As a result, activities have been developed, including through the acquisition of control technology, the sale of real estate, increased mobility and streamlining and automation of the border inspection process. The Border Guard is still running the last government's tomorrow gift, an economic adjustment programme to implement the savings decisions made between 2011 and 2012. The 2012 adjustment programme for the implementation of savings decisions has been designed in a more favourable security context. However, the security situation in Europe and the border security situation in Finland have changed in a worse direction and there is no light on this issue. The additional deferred internal security allocation allocated in the Government Programme to the Border Guard is sufficient to cover only the additional cuts made by the previous Government during 2014. In the Internal Security Report, the Government has outlined that it will monitor the baseline of the eastern border and, in order to achieve this level, target a total of 160 border guards to control the eastern border. However, this amount is only sufficient for basic controls. It does not allow for a reaction to prolonged or multiple occurrences. The cuts in the savings programme also substantially undermine the ability of the Border Guard to carry out official tasks. For example, they have conducted some 600 police missions and some 1,300 search and rescue missions each year in the areas of land. Most of these tasks will be left to other authorities in the future, and this is very regrettable. They will also have to save on occupational health care, which I do not consider desirable in any way. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to thank you for making such a report on Finland's internal security. This is one of a kind. And I would also like to thank the Minister for having been here all afternoon with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u161	Secretary Risikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-20-ps-40.u162	Mr President! This has been a very good debate which has taken place here tonight. Yes, security has been supported here, and why not, that is the basic need of each of us. We can be very pleased that Finland is one of the safest countries in the world, but at the same time this debate demonstrates the concern that the security environment has changed and that internal and external security are intertwined, and there is nothing clear to us about the internal security act and what it is externally. The threats in particular are mixed so that much happens here inside Finland but it has a foreign starting point. The important thing is that we share a situation picture. There is much talk about the need for decision-makers to have a common picture of the situation, and I am very glad that, having listened to you, I am convinced that you and I share a common picture of the situation. We smell and see the threats of the future and we see the varied threats that are at present. The important thing we must stick to is the competence, that is, the power to have the right and the opportunity to act. Then another development target is performance. So not everything depends on how much money we have. We need to have that performance, that know-how, and that is where we need to invest in education and training. As far as powers are concerned, of course, legislative measures always deal with them. Then, of course, there are these financial resources, which have been very tight in all sectors. And once again, next week we will have a debate on them. We need not only money, we really need knowledge, we need resilience, we need good cooperation with operators and we need division of labour. I have had a great deal of discussion about, for example, what is involved in police work when we talk about, for example, the transport of drunk people and then detention. I understand very well when I have spoken to our experts that the transport is certainly one of those things, that when the police are always called on to do so, the same will be the case. Then there are also such legal dimensions, sovereignty and constitutional rights. But what about detention and detention? Is it really the case that all those who are so-called peacefully drunk are really in jail? I do not think so, and now we have to invest precisely in the establishment of survival stations, and the government itself has long been of the opinion that they are important. I also understand that in municipalities and regions this has not gone very well, but I hope that when the coming provinces come, we will really get more of these survival stations then, because that would be the best solution for this. Well, what are we doing in that Ministry of the Interior? We have a lot going on, although I know that this is a multi-sectoral one and cooperation with other ministries. We have excellent cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health with regard to this health security, and of course the Ministry of Justice is needed to ensure that this legislative aspect is good. But just such concrete things: we are investing in this prevention, in early intervention, in the prevention of exclusion, and these are, for example, the Ankkuri model, which I have just spoken about in my speech, and also in this Radinet action, that is, how these radicalised and these foreign fighters are again being made members of society, so to speak. That is where we work a lot with organisations. In the field of intelligence legislation, as has already been mentioned here, I fully agree with the accelerated progress made by the commentators, and I am in favour of it myself. I understand that we want to get to know it now, and that is what we should do, because the details are crucial. Now that feedback is received from the consultation, there will certainly be corrections, but what kind of ones we do not know. What resources it needs will depend on how much intelligence legislation remains to operate. We'll look at all of these here before it gets here in Parliament. We're on the road to rescue reform. Border Guard operations: there was talk here that the eastern border needed people in Raja. Then these EU obligations: Well, increasing the police's powers of action, for example in drug situations, in the search for drugs, has already been transferred to you here in Parliament today. I call for a controlled immigration policy in the EU, and that is what Finland often talks about in that area of the EU that now all countries have to do their job and Turkey has to keep its agreement so that we can manage this immigration situation. — — — — Thank you.
