ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-arranged speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. A referral debate on this subject will take place until 4.30 p.m. The debate will continue if necessary after the other items of the agenda have been discussed, but if the debate ends before 4.30 p.m., the next item will be the agenda, i.e. 3 p.m. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u2	Madam President! The Government Programme sets the cornerstones for a competitive, prosperous Finland. In the Government Programme, we promised, among other things, to improve the profitability of the Finnish food sector and to correct the food trade deficit. A number of measures are already under way, but the food sector's successful future requires a long-term and goal-oriented approach to what the whole food sector can commit itself to, and this long-term approach is being sought through the present food policy report. It is also part of the Government's "Finnish food production for profit, trade balance and the blue bioeconomy for growth" top project. The report has been prepared in broad cooperation with the industry. Hundreds of people have participated in the preparation process for more than a year in workshops and seminars, and we received nearly 70 opinions on the draft. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Mr President! Food is a central part of our culture and everyday life. Food is not just food, production or health effects, but it has important social and cultural meanings and values that guide our choices. The rich Finnish food culture is based on regionally diverse ingredients and traditions and seasonality. The food culture also includes knowledge and knowledge in the entire food system, production and processing methods and the use of these for the benefit of the profitability of the food system. Food culture is important for the building of national and regional identities. Food culture is also constantly changing with the everyday choices of consumers and consumer communities. Consumer behaviour also shapes the activities of industry and trade. On the other hand, consumer choice is also dependent on the supply of industry and trade. In the future, food consumption will change, and it has been predicted that consumer segments will become increasingly fragmented in the future. Multiculturalism is gaining strength in our country, and we are being stimulated by internationalism. More and more consumers are making informed choices for ethical, responsible and health-promoting food. The functioning of food distribution chains is affected by the economic situation at present. It is also influenced by the pressure of global competition and consumer expectations. However, the daily practices of buying and purchasing food, as well as the consumption structure of food, are slowly changing. I believe that food will continue to be purchased mainly from grocery stores, both large supermarkets and small shops. However, food distribution channels are becoming significantly diversified in line with the changing needs of consumers. One of the most important decisions taken by the government in the area of red tape, the liberalisation of the opening hours of shops, has given some particular preference to large units in the grocery trade. In order to ensure distribution, it is appropriate to consider what measures could be taken to improve the opportunities for small, entrepreneurial-driven shops, particularly in rural areas. This action has been taken into account in the report. Mr President! The basis for a profitable food system is functional, profitable primary production. As an EU Member State, we are committed to the EU's common agricultural policy and, in the preparation of the new CAP 2020 policy, we need to influence the various EU institutions and other Member States so that the EU's common agricultural policy also after 2020 takes into account Finland's special features in the management of production, different support schemes and funding. The principle of CAP reform must be that food production can continue throughout the European Union. In primary production, which is the basis of the food system, productivity has increased over the last few years with a boom. The size of the farms is increasing, crop levels are rising, the machines are becoming more efficient, the amount of automation is increasing. At the same time, however, profitability has deteriorated further. The process is unsustainable; it requires correction. The negotiating position of producers vis-à-vis industry or trade is quite non-existent throughout Europe. Finland has relied on voluntary negotiations among operators, but the results do not seem very encouraging. At EU level, the issue of how to improve the status of farmers through legislation is currently under discussion. It is also necessary to consider the option of EU legislation here in Finland. As restructuring progresses, farms that are developing should be able to expand their production in order to safeguard domestic production, but how do you do so if old investments are still outstanding? In order to diversify food production and distribution systems, in addition to physical investment, more resources need to be directed towards research, development and innovation activities such as new types of activities, technology competence, digitalisation, product development, commercial testing, communication skills and export market knowledge, and risk assessment. Production alone is therefore not enough, but it is essential to find customers who can pay for high-quality production using different measures. This functional food system also needs strong research, training and advice to support it. The report calls for high-quality and multidisciplinary basic and continuing training in the food sector, as well as adequate public and private funding for research and development and cooperation between donors. Appreciation of food and food makers is important for the future of the food system. If we value food, it is possible that its food makers will also receive a fair share at all stages of the food chain. That appreciation comes from families and children. The report includes a stronger integration of the food and nutrition and sustainable development perspective into early childhood education, the various subjects of comprehensive school and upper secondary school, teacher education and secondary vocational education, as well as the practices of educational institutions. Similarly, various campaigns targeting consumers and professionals will increase the value of food. Promoting public health is at the heart of a prosperous society. How can we ensure that Finns will eat even healthier in the future? Does industry have the capacity to develop its products in a healthier direction, or does change require fiscal solutions? This is something that I would also like to hear from Parliament. Mr President! Security of supply is more prominent in this report than in previous reports. So the world’s turmoil has not been overlooked either by the authors of the food policy report. In addition to preparedness, the key to ensuring security of supply is, among other things, to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and other import resources in food production by promoting the circular economy and the utilisation of local resources. Food exports are given a key role in the report. Increasing exports is not only a way to stress our trade balance but also a need if we are to compete against increasing food imports. It is also an opportunity to improve the profitability of the domestic food system. Our food trade balance is nearly 3 billion in deficit, and Russia's sanctions worsened the situation. Now the direction is turning towards a better one. The EU internal market works, exports to the EU area have increased. We have also managed to open up important new markets, such as the export of pigmeat to China. I believe and hope that in the course of this year, the gap caused by the Russian export recession will be reached in the Finnish food economy. Products are different, different sectors, but exports of the food economy as a whole are likely to achieve that recovery. At present, the comments of food-exporting companies increasingly include: where is the skilled workforce? When we think that more and more food-processing companies are doing well on the international market, we need professionals in this field. Unfortunately, the situation today is that Finland is not specifically trained in food exports, even if that particular sector requires specific expertise. The government is now trying to find solutions to this. We have the best raw materials in the world, but we still have to learn to sell them. There are good arguments for selling in Finland. Finland is one of the models of food production, for example, because we only use antibiotics for animals on an individual basis and on a case-by-case basis. The rather carefree or even reckless use of antibiotics in the world has led to the world finding more and more antibiotics with immune bacteria in humans as well as animals and food. At the same time, in Finland, each treated animal is individually recorded in the accounts. We Finns must know how to get a decent price for our clean food on the market and also bring the world's knowledge of the production of clean food. Increased resistance to antibiotics is a serious threat to mankind, and the almost non-existence of antibiotics is the strength of Finnish food production. Mr President! In addition to exports, the domestic market also plays an important role in the trade balance. The Government Programme aims to improve the visibility of origin labelling so that consumers can make informed decisions in trade. Last week I told you that the compulsory origin labelling of processed meat and milk products packed for consumers will be extended. In the future, the origin of the imported raw material can no longer be left out, as unfortunately some processors have done so far. Foreign meat is imported into Finland annually to the value of approximately EUR 150 million. On the basis of the feedback we received from the statements, we changed that presentation in order to ensure that the "Good Finland" label, which is widely used, is also suitable for labelling. In this case, operators covered by the voluntary label will not need to renew their packaging and save a nice sum. The requirement for this label is 100% domestic meat and milk as raw material. After this presentation of the origin mark, there has also been some discussion as to whether labels should also be made more visible in restaurants. I am in favour of the fact that the restaurant customer is also aware of the origin of the food, and it is inspiring to note that more and more restaurants are investing in high-quality domestic raw materials. There should be a debate with the sector on the extension of labelling. In order to increase competitiveness, we need in particular to strengthen the export competence of the food sector and to increase the high added value of export products. The authorities that run export licensing processes also play an important role in this. They must have sufficient resources to make the search processes smooth and fast and to make it easy for companies to use the propuskas needed for each market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u3	Let us continue with the round of group First of all, Parliament Group and representative Hautala. - Here you go!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u4	Madam President! The third food policy report creates the conditions for development for domestic primary production, the food industry and the entire food chain. Important priorities are also food safety and security of supply. Primary food production is the basis of the entire food system. The raw materials produced in Finland are known to be the cleanest in the EU. There are many things that show a high level: Our farm animals are healthy and healthy. We don't grow genetically modified plants. We don't feed animals untenable soy. We do not use artificial hormones in animal production, and animal antibiotics are used only if necessary to treat the disease. Finnish consumers can rely on domestic food production, but its purity may not be taken for granted. All this can be broken down by the fact that food production is no longer profitable and production loses the conditions for development. Producers who are agonizing with profitability have stepped up their activities. However, the savings achieved have fallen into consumer prices. The problem is that the good work done on farms has not increased producer prices and producers' incomes. Food production must also be internationally competitive. Advice, training and research must be up-to-date and must also meet the needs of growing food exports. Above all, new innovations and product development are needed for the food industry. It is not enough for us here to know that we are eating good, high-quality food, but more and more work is needed to promote food exports. An example of long-term and unrelenting work is the opening-up of the Chinese market for pigmeat and oat products. Mr President! As promised The Sipilä Government promotes responsible products in public food and food service procurement. By its decision in principle, the Government will improve the opportunities for domestic food to compete, and the Government will monitor the implementation of the decision. Approximately EUR 350 million will be spent on public food procurement each year. Public tendering for producers and entrepreneurs in their region will bring opportunities and employment, strengthening the regional economy and increasing tax revenue. I encourage all municipalities, cities and public bodies to adopt a procurement principle decision. Municipal decision-makers are now key. Trade must also follow fairer trading practices. They must understand the value of quality, responsibility and reliable and accurate origin marking in trade activities. The central parliamentary group considers it very good for consumers that the origin marking of ingredients of meat and dairy products manufactured in Finland is progressing. Minister Tiilikainen has said well: "When Finland turns 100 in December, consumers will have information about the origin of meat and dairy products." Labelling will enable the consumer to make more responsible decisions. There is also room for improvement in the way food is consumed. The Finnish food chain throws away about 400 million kilos of food a year, the biggest loss is in households. The average Finnish food waste is nearly 30 kilos per year. Each and every one of our actions can contribute to this. Mr President! It is good that food security and security of supply are at the heart of the food policy report. With food security, we make sure that everyone gets enough safe food at all times and that our economy remains healthy. From a global perspective, too, this is a truly valuable objective. The report estimates that in 2030, 8.5 billion people in the world will need 60% more food, 45% more energy and 30% more water than at present. Food security is a global challenge. Ensuring good nutrition for the growing population in a sustainable way will not be easy. It is therefore important for us to take care of the conditions for continued domestic food production. Finnish food is a responsible act. Mr President! Finnish cooking and food are at the top of the world. Finnish chefs have done well, for example, in the chefs' World Cup, where the Finnish chef team achieved silver and the catering team achieved gold. Finland also won the Nordic Championships. Finnish food has never been so successful in international arenas before as it was last year. This shows that Finnish food is in demand, interesting and one of the strong success factors of 100-year-old Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u5	Mr President! "The first thing they had to do was go to the swamp. Here under the North Star, the opening words of the novel are still true today. Throughout the ages, Finns have cleared and built this land with their own hands. The bread is taken from the domestic revolution. Finnish guts, competence, diligence and conscientiousness are our leverage in food production. We can be proud of our food safety, which is world-class. The Finnish citizen appreciates the countryside and clean, domestic and safe food. Mr President! True Finns want to secure the survival of small and medium-sized family farms in Finland that the EU is pushing into the straits and do everything in their power to improve their profitability. This is done by supporting, among other things, generational exchanges. We want to maintain a transparent, so-called field-to-table chain. We stress the fact that the preservation of Finnish agricultural production is also of great importance for the rest of the food sector and the maintenance of the related jobs in our country. We warmly urge citizens to support domestic production more strongly in their own purchasing decisions: buy Finnish. More domestic local food should also be used in schools, day care centres and hospitals. Once agricultural production is secured, we will be able to guarantee the functioning of our home market in the future. At the same time, the security of supply in our country will also be taken into account. In our policy, Finnish work comes first. With accession to the European Union, the idealization of greatness has risen to an unforeseeable value, unfortunately also in food production. True Finns feel that this development has had negative effects as long production chains have reduced the traceability of food origin. Consumers have the right to be assured of the conditions and conditions under which food is produced. The recent food policy report also considers this to be a very important issue. In fact, our government is committed to allowing consumers to choose on their plate more tasty and healthier food that has been produced close, sustainable and safe. Mr President! The Finns of Peru are calling for an increase in the value of food. High-quality food promotes health. We are concerned that, for example, the increase in imported food on the market may also increase the possibility of various epidemics. In this context, we would like to draw attention both to animal health and to the fact that food will continue to be free from genetic modification in our country. This can be the export advantage of Finnish agriculture in the near future. The Finnish Parliament Group believes that the conditions for organic production in small and family farms must be maintained throughout Finland. The expansion of both local and organic food production must be provided with a sufficient framework to make agriculture a business and organic farming profitable. In the final analysis, how much organic production will eventually grow will be decided by consumers. True Finns want to support and facilitate the emergence of new sales channels so that production meets demand better. This requires the provision of assistance and services to farmers for internationalisation and marketing, as is the case with other entrepreneurs. The fresh food policy report now in our hands responds quite well to this need. Mr President! Finally, we would like to remind you of the fact that our government is paying particular attention to the so-called blue bioeconomy, that is, fisheries. The goal is a significant increase in the proportion of domestic fish at our tables. Let this be one of our important food policy objectives during this reign. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u6	Madam President! What could be a more illustrative indicator of the nation’s prosperity than the contents of the food plate? One hundred-year-old independent maiden Finland has gone a long way from the years of famine to solve food loss reduction. As history shows, regulation of food did not solve the adequacy of food during the famine years, but our security was food knowledge and food skills. The Coalition Party's parliamentary group believes that they are an increasingly regulated way of reducing food losses for the civilized people. The adequacy of food and its potential for sustainable production are key to building social stability, security and well-being around the world. The development of our well-being and food production and the supply of food are apt to illustrate Finland's international policy line. The ever-increasing global competition for access to our food plate for products and raw materials underlines the importance of our own expertise and competitiveness factors, both on the domestic market, on the EU internal market and on the world market. Food security is an integral part of our security policy. For example, antibiotic resistance is becoming a serious global scourge that affects everyone regardless of diet. Our food production, free from unnecessary antibiotics, is a unique achievement and a significant choice of values that has enabled exemplary purity of raw materials and high quality to safeguard the well-being of both consumers and animals. Once you choose otherwise, there will never be a return to antibiotic-free food production again. Finland must adhere to its antibiotic-free production, as its role as a competitive factor will only be strengthened in the future. Mr President! Appreciation for our own food production is respect for our nation and our future. In a market economy, consumers have the right to know and to use it as an informed basis for their choices. The extension of origin labelling requirements to food ingredients is welcome and understood as a more significant reform that will increase consumer food awareness, but also pressure on food manufacturers to increase the share of Finnish raw materials in the production of their products. The clarification of origin labelling is important if the practices of the country of origin are also capable of communicating to consumers. The Coalition Party supports the transparency of the entire food chain from fields to tables. The demand for transparency is essentially the responsibility that operators in the entire food chain must commit to instead of seeking selfish quick profits. That is why competition in the trade sector must be promoted at all levels of decision-making in such a way that risk-taking is worthwhile. The requirement of responsibility itself also clearly applies to the state itself, where Europe's cheapest raw materials produce Europe's most expensive food. The domestic market is an integral part of the world market. Even though domestic operators appear to us as giants, they are only growing players on the world market. Their competitiveness must also be secured on the domestic market, as investments in advanced domestic research, product development and innovation are invaluable. Food produced in Finland must be competitive throughout the world. Added value, more responsible cleanliness and quality, must be able to compete in a fair and transparent manner. On a global scale, Finland is an exemplary and progressive country in the responsibility of food production. Exceptional circumstances, seasons, abundant water supply and northern location have laid down the conditions for specialising in food production rather than in mass production. These are our leverage when we try to increase the export of Finnish food. Investments, in particular in exports of high-processing products, will play a key role in strengthening domestic production and the exploitation of international markets. Interdisciplinary research and development activities in the food sector need to be made more networked and multi-level. The more active the sharing and exploitation of existing information, the more efficient and effective the various projects can be. Knowledge in other sectors would support food exports, such as digitalisation tools. The digital leap in administration, working methods and markets would certainly also benefit the primary production of domestic farms. Mr President! The profitability of primary production and its improvement are crucial for the future of Finnish food production. The greater the percentage of the income the producer receives from the work he does, from the products he sells, the healthier and more viable the market environment can be as a result. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party supports the increase in Finnish production by all means and encourages the increase in the domestic level of food production in public sector procurement. When defining the guidelines for the European Union's common agricultural policy, a thorough update of the system must be ensured for the new programming period. The domestic bureaucracy and administrative burden must be reduced and simplified with determination, irrespective of the timetable for the Union's policy reforms. Producers must be able to use their time inputs primarily for their actual work rather than for administration. Policy must be able to stabilise the operating environment at home in such a way that agricultural restructuring is progressing, the tools for working are diversified and more efficient and that the future and risk-taking capacity of the sector's experts can be increased. Mr President! The Government's latest food policy report has a clear vision: the best food in the world. In 2030, Finland will eat sustainable and ethically produced Finnish, tasty, healthy and safe food. You can't blame a lack of ambition. 2030 will be faster than we can expect with regard to the policy that requires implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u7	Mr President! The Government's Food Policy Report deals with a broad package. Food raises extreme questions about malnutrition, social justice, environmental sustainability, and the treatment of animals. Millions of people in the world depend on food aid. In Finland, too, thousands of people are waiting in line for surplus food in stores. When we talk about food, we are at the root of the questions that policy must resolve. Mr President! The journey of each food begins with the work that the primary producer does. It is a long way from growing grain into bread or ending up on the shelf of the store, and it takes a huge amount of hours to work. The position of the primary producer is not good and has deteriorated due to profitability problems in recent years. The producer’s share of the final price of the product is low — is it not to be thought of when the producer only has a crumb, 2 %, when the industry takes the majority? This is not fair. The Social Democrats want everyone to get along with their work, and that requires fair competition in the food sector. We see that profitable domestic primary production also ensures the availability of food during possible times of crisis. It is also important to remember the impact on employment. The food chain employs over 300,000 people in Finland. New and important climate-friendly innovations have also emerged in the sector and also have great export potential. The Finnish cooking team has also been successful in the world and takes knowledge and the message of Finnish food forward. This is important. The transparency of the food supply chain must be increased. The choice of a domestic product for the consumer must be made easier, for example through clear labelling. Our old people in service houses, our children and our young people in schools and kindergartens deserve close-produced, Finnish, clean food to eat. It is therefore important to increase the use of domestic local and organic products in public procurement. Mr President! People are interested in the welfare of farm animals, and research shows that animal welfare is increasing all the time. Finnish meat is relatively ethically produced and the safest in the world, including very few antibiotics. But there's still something to be healed. Animal welfare legislation has not progressed as hoped during this government term. The Social Democrats' line is that the Animal Welfare Act should be reformed in such a way as to improve animal welfare and to enable animals to have more species-specific behaviour. Mr President! Finland will be 100 years old this year. We have a high standard of living. However, it is a poverty of reason that we throw as much as 400 million kilos of edible food into the garbage in Finland every year. The climate load of waste food is high, as waste food has invested resources throughout the entire production chain from cultivation to packaging and transportation. Every year, food waste accounts for about 100,000 passenger cars. A wide range of means is needed to ensure that the entire food chain is sustainable. In particular, the use of surplus food should be intensified. In a spirit of circular economic thinking, edible food could be redirected back to the food chain and to useful use. There is also a need for stronger, including legislative, means. Last year, more than a hundred MPs signed a bill prohibiting dumping edible food. There is therefore a strong will in Parliament to resolve the issue of loss. Social Democrats want to be involved in creating ways to reduce losses in Finland. As a pioneer in the circular economy, Finland cannot ignore this issue of food waste. Mr President! The Social Democrats thank you for a comprehensive report. Finland must be the forerunner of the circular economy, ethical consumption and the production chain of more innovative food. This requires effective means of improving the position of primary producers in a sustainable way, rapid action to reduce food losses and an ambitious animal welfare law for 100-year-old Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u8	Mr President! In order to promote exports and improve the profitability of agriculture, the report highlights research and innovation, but at the same time the government's drastic cuts in education and research undermine the development of new hit products. For example, the popularity of the cow has shown that there is an order for new products. In recent times, agriculture has faced a deep crisis of profitability. In order to safeguard domestic food production, the profitability of primary production must be improved. Large retailers export too much of the food chain’s output, and new direct sales routes are therefore needed. Food cooperatives that increase the popularity of urban residents are good development. We consumers want more organic food. Promoting organic farming reduces dependence on imported fertilisers and fossil fuels used to produce them. The government does not seem to believe in the possibilities of organic production, as it is very much ignored in the report. The Greens aim to ensure that 20% of the food in public kitchens is organic by 2020. Even small personal choices have environmental impacts. Researchers and experts have developed new tools to support consumers, such as the Baltic Sea counter and the meat counter, to monitor the importance of food choices. There was clearly an order for the calculators, but there has been an excessive looting of researchers in public debate. It is essential that we understand the kind of carbon backpack we have in our way of life. The Finnish Environment Agency's measurements on the research vessel Aranda provide record-breaking algae summer. Who wants to offer our children algae porridge in the Baltic Sea? We Greens do not, and that is why we would completely reform agricultural subsidies. It is important that production generates sustainable added value and that subsidies are targeted at ethical and environmentally friendly production, ecosystem services. Food is also about animal rights. The conditions of farming animals must be improved by guaranteeing more room for manoeuvre, stimulation and the possibility of species-specific behaviour. A comprehensive reform of the Animal Protection Act is needed. It is worrying that there is no mention of animal welfare law in the government report. Instead, an animal welfare quality label is proposed as a measure. All production must be sustainable and our laws must be brought to the Nordic level. Attention should also be paid to improving the supply of domestic protein. A significant proportion of our food is still being transported to our farm animals from abroad, instead of employing our own farmers by growing our own food. The regional economy benefits from local agricultural enterprises, but the report lacks the energy self-sufficiency of farms. The rational recycling of nutrients and the production of local energy by farms are worthwhile objectives. Biogas plants offer a good solution. To promote this renewable energy, a tailor-made support solution from the state is needed. Government cuts from the Natural Resources Centre hinder the promotion of bioenergy that is important for rural areas. There's been a distress call from Luke's investigators. Is the government going to drive Luke's research out of the provinces and centralize operations in the capital region? The report promotes the sales of domestic fish. That is to be welcomed. For example, the consumption of broken bones is good for health and the environment. However, we must remember that world fish stocks, including cod and wild salmon stocks in the Baltic Sea, have been compromised. The consumption of fish must move towards sustainable use of fish and a traceability system on the origin and sustainability of fish must be developed. Mr President! Eating together is a communal and important moment. Food is valuable, and work has been done on it. Finland and Sweden are the only countries in the world where children are offered a warm meal free of charge in schools. Should a weekly vegetarian day be organised in national schools for the next success story in Finland, which is 100 years old? For all of us, it is important what children eat in day care and in schools, what elderly people eat in nursing homes. Children and the elderly deserve safe, tasty and healthy food. Municipal decision-makers have the responsibility to provide sufficient funds to make good purchases and promote local and organic food. The Procurement Act can be applied with emphasis on freshness and delivery time. Food is a lifeblood, but it is also culture, experiences, traditions, being together much more than just calories.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u9	Madam President! The Government’s food policy report has the right objectives, so they are easy to sign. But the emphasis on the Left Alliance has its own, well-founded views. The great line of food policy must be in ensuring ethical and environmentally friendly domestic food production. In this way we will improve security of supply, employment, well-being, the state of the environment and respond to consumers' wishes. This is the goal of the Left Alliance. Finns should be asked: Do you know what your child eats? A leap in the direction of knowledge makes it possible to know what to do with public procurement. Finns eat 2.3 million meals daily in day-care centres, school canteens, hospitals and so on. The Left Alliance wants these meals to favour local and organic foods of origin and to understand the desire of young people to focus on vegetarian food, because the world is changing, Eskoseni. Mr President! In addition to managing the acute crisis of farm profitability, we need to look for ways for farms to develop productivity. For example, there should be a solution to the high prices of rented fields. In the future, aid must only be directed at active farmers, as long as we first decide who the active farmer is. Instead of constantly increasing the size of the farm, farms of all sizes should be able to succeed. We must understand the multifunctional nature of agriculture, which has been identified in the report. The producer has earned his salary. Cheaping work or product is not a sustainable solution. So let the quality be our top. It means excellent tastes, purity and ethics. The most important thing is to increase the share of domestic food in Finnish grocery bags. The long-awaited overall reform of the Animal Welfare Act must finally be completed with emphasis on the latest data from animal welfare research. A healthy animal is the best friend of the producer. With regard to animal welfare controls, the transition to digital voluntary controls should be made possible. This would allow us to develop controls and reduce the costs of controls for producers. At the same time, the availability of domestic fish should be increased, highlighting the recovery of migratory fish stocks. The proportion of fish farms in the closed cycle should be increased. In export markets, our advantage is clean, safe and ethical food. We also need more regional pride. I'm interested in stories. We should therefore take full advantage of the EU's name protection system when it finances marketing. One theme of the Finland 100 centenary year would be 100 Finnish regional name-protected products. That's a brave goal, but that's the way it's supposed to be. Mr President! The bread is in our own hands. One concrete way to appreciate those involved in the whole food chain is to reduce food losses. The amount of food that ends up in the garbage must be reduced. The distribution of surplus food needs to be improved. The flourishing agriculture and the food industry are not born by themselves. The Left Alliance wants proper investments in research and product development. With innovation funding, we can promote a circular economy. We do not even know yet what innovations such as the removal of water from sludge are ahead of us in the further processing of potato cell fluids by which the nitrate regulation was passed. All of these make it possible to create new jobs in Finland. The world's population has increased and continues to grow, but we can only use the fields by 3%. In Finland, we must increase protein self-sufficiency and, in particular, the use of barley so that, as a by-product of that protein, it then creates fuels for transport, for example. Climate change is a serious crisis. That is what we need to focus on, because even if we can bring global warming to a halt of less than 2 degrees, it means 4 in Finland, which is a risk when potential plant pests are spreading to food and food production. We need vegetarian food, and that does not mean that everyone has to be ultra-vegans, but let's say hi with joy, though. These new products are innovative and it is good that we have new products. This brings work to the whole chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u10	Värderade fru talman! Tänk globalt, handla lokalt. Den auri något slitna frasen säger egentligen ganska bra vad sund livsmedelspolitik handlar om. Nämligen att vi befinner oss mitt i en global utveckling, som vi kanske bast kan hantera genom hållbara lokala åtgärder.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u11	Mr President! This report sets the objective of increasing domestic food production. There are growth prospects in both domestic consumption and export markets. Last summer, in the debate on agriculture, it became clear that all parliamentary parties share a common view of the seriousness of the agricultural crisis. All parliamentary parties had representatives who saw agriculture as an important part of the future of Finland. For a long time, the export prospects of the food industry are bright. New export-oriented food innovations and special products tailored to the target market increase the processing rate and bring more work to the Finns. International marketing needs to be stepped up in order to promote exports and create brands. In Finland, it is customary to say that a good product sells itself, but it is in this gullibility that our problem is. You'll have to know how to sell those excellent products, too. In the alternative budget, KD proposed an increase of EUR 15 million in company marketing and internationalisation grants, but this was rejected by government parties. Mr President! According to the report, "food will continue to be produced mainly in rural areas, but as technology and the operating environment develop even more close to the consumer". Biotechnological development will be staggering in the coming years. The decision of the Government depends on whether Finland is involved in this development or not. In the view of the Christian Democrats, We need to invest more in Tekes' research projects. According to the report, "there is a particular concern about the decline in food technology research and training". I couldn't agree more. But this is in the hands of the government itself. The report also aims to maximise the energy, nutrient and feed self-sufficiency of the farms, for example by increasing the use of biogas and electricity as the propulsion power of the machinery. This is also important to us, and that is why we have proposed a number of ways of increasing the production of transport biogas on farms. One of them is that the production of a biogas plant would receive the same kind of support as can now be obtained for the construction of a barn. Mr President! Food policy is also a welfare policy. Clean and healthy food is an essential part of human physical well-being. It was seen today in Lahti. Domestic food is good for Finland to win gold — congratulations on that. Mr President! The Christian Democrats are concerned about residues of pesticides and chemicals in agriculture and food production. We believe that it would be good to reduce the additives that are now allowed in foodstuffs. It is still possible to increase the organic production that consumers want, and we have set ourselves the objective of increasing the production, processing, marketing and export of organic products. For the sake of quality control, it is also important that food businesses create brand products that can be traced through the production chain to the primary producer and that the development towards their own product names is no longer deepened. It is to be welcomed that this report highlights, in particular, the excessive consumption of sugar by children and young people and the possible health-related tax. The health-based excise duty proposed by the Christian Democrats on products containing added sugar would promote welfare-enhancing food choices and the product development of the food industry towards healthier foods. The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament hopes that the mention in the report will mean that our proposal will be implemented. Finally, Mr President, only direct and targeted action can bring Finnish food production and agriculture out of the acute crisis and create a belief in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u12	Next, Minister Tiilikainen, up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u13	Madam President! The vision of the food policy report is: "In 2030 Finnish consumers will eat sustainable and ethically produced domestic, tasty, healthy and safe food. Consumers have the ability and the opportunity to make informed choices." Ladies and gentlemen, in my group speeches I felt that every single group was in favour of this vision, which has been written in the food policy report. Of course, there were some differences in emphasis between the groups as to which of these figures that describe our food system each emphasizes more or less, but everyone seemed to have that very strong view that the vision is right. There was a certain amount of concern about the concrete. On this point, it is good to say, as I said in that opening statement, that the report is a strategic document followed immediately by an implementation plan. This implementation plan is intended to be drawn up in conjunction with the actors in the sector, so that commitment and responsibility sharing in order to build the future described in this report will be made concrete. So that implementation plan, which is currently being drawn up together with the industry’s operators, then brings the rye bread, if it is said so, to complete the report. Actually, I picked up a few things you raised. It was pleasant to note the belief in the quality of Finnish food from the point of view of consumer health, environmental friendliness and ethical production. These are the strengths that Finnish food can handle. It is good to note that many of these values go from that particular raw material. And given the kind of raw material we have at the bottom of the food chain, it is never as if the chain is able to improve and bring a great deal of added value, but it is precisely the raw material which must therefore be preserved through the chain with high quality operations. We have all the prerequisites for this in Finland, and I am very pleased that all groups saw the possibility of increasing exports not only in terms of the adjustment of the trade balance but also in such a way that it is precisely the fact that we have companies in the international market with sufficient quality products that will ensure Finnish food production in the future. Security of supply was emphasised by many, that is a very good thing. I'm also actually quite pleased that this did not come about in this kind of government—opposition arrangement much, because food is a much wider thing than who happens to be in the government at any time and who in the opposition. But so much must now be said in a good spirit of cooperation that one of the few criticisms that I heard was that the government received was when Mr Karimäki condemned the government's actions on the cuts at the Natural Resources Centre. I fully agree with this. But, unfortunately, it was already the previous government that made those cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u14	Madam President! Thank you for the contributions to all the groups. This is a very large consensus and a similarity in the speeches of all the political groups, and for that I thank you all. I would now like to highlight these quality issues and the actions the government has taken. In my opinion, these labels of origin are one very concrete measure which increases the transparency of the chain and the position of producers, and also ensures that consumers receive good food. And I believe that it will also have an impact on this trade balance so that the volume of imports will decrease. But another important question is the role of the producer, how to get the producer a better account for producing quality food. Of course, we must do everything in our power towards the European Union with regard to aid policy, and then with regard to all the national measures that are:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u15	Mr President! It is self-evident that domestic food production must be safeguarded in every way. However, a year ago farmers arranged a tractor march to Helsinki: the problems had grown so big and they were really worried. In this context, the government issued a crisis package of 50 million, which came immediately to the aid, but of course it is not enough today. From 100,000 to 50,000, the number of farms has decreased over 20 years, and it is a very serious place. And, unfortunately, this trend continues. I would like to ask the Minister how these agricultural subsidies will develop in the future. In some ways it seems strange that France, for example, receives much more agricultural subsidies than Finland, even though it receives up to two crops. Similarly, livestock farms are in great difficulty, and now this animal welfare law is being reformed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u16	Madam President! I would like to raise two points in this regard. Evira's research on food safety has been commendable, and the progress report from VTT and Tekes on the food economy shows that cross-sectoral cooperation is needed to find new food and food markets. To sum up, there is also no lack of ideas, but there is a lack of resources. And I would have liked to ask the Minister how the Ministry intends to allocate these resources now in such a way that more efficiency can be achieved. Furthermore, with regard to these designations of origin: how is the regulation now to be implemented in order to provide consumers with information about more than the country of origin, including, for example, the production practices of these countries, which are absolutely essential for making its value choice on the shelf for domestic food?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u17	Madam President! With joy, I also followed the speeches, all of which strengthened the appreciation of Finnish food. I would also like to ask the Minister about this issue of food waste, which was strongly raised in almost all the group speeches. As pointed out above, between 400 and 500 million kilograms of edible food will end up in the garbage in Finland, and yet it should also be a stronger part of this report and the political lines that must be taken in the future. In this food distribution, there are legal challenges with regard to food distribution, transport, storage within the framework of food law, fiscal issues that encourage this good food to be thrown into the garbage. I would also like to ask in the light of this bill: what are the current plans, whether this is being promoted, and in what way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u18	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Minister. A brick band for good work on origin marking, to promote it. The Greens are very much in favour of it. As far as the cuts at the Natural Resources Centre are concerned, yes, during the budget reading we heard the message that the government's research and training cuts are evenly applied everywhere, so Luke has also been cut further. I therefore hope that you will respond to this emergency call from the provinces. If you have a desire to secure Luke’s field research in the provinces, then the researchers will certainly want to hear this message. I'd also like to ask you about the creation. The previous government had high goals to promote organic farming. What are the objectives of this government? Are the objectives of the previous government still valid, and what measures are you taking to promote organic farming?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u19	Madam President! In his speech, Minister Tiilikainen highlighted the importance of entrepreneurs and workers in the sector, but, like the report, the minister spoke more about education, training and teachers than about people who allow the slogan from "Pello to the table". In the report this point was always expected in the last paragraph of page 39 — and only in four lines. The recent Intermediate Farmer project has shown severe financial problems for farmers, which have led to serious fatigues and even mental health problems. The report states: there is an accident, a danger of illness and mental stress in the food industry. Minister Tiilikainen, how will we ensure the well-being of those working in the entire food chain?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u20	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! The Decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the origin labelling of meat and milk products is progressing, and this is good. Thank you, Minister, for that. The consumer has the right to know where the food comes from and how it is produced, including in products other than meat and milk products. I am in favour of extending the obligation of origin marking, and I ask Mr Tiilikainen: does the government intend to push for an extension of the obligation of origin marking, for example, to cereal products? The second thing: Over the past few years, the Finnish chef-country team has been very successful in international measurements, and the last time there was silver in the World Cup competitions. I ask the Minister how the success of the cooking team can be used, for example, in promoting exports and maintaining excellence in the Finnish kitchen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u21	Madam President! Först vill jag tacka minister Tiilikainen för hans svar till colleague Blomqvist på en ypperlig svenska. Men trots att vi alla verkar ha en ljus vision om maten i Finland år 2030 så vet vi att det finns problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u22	Madam Speaker! Food is central, if not the most fundamental, human rights for every human being around the world. Its management is based on profitable primary production, profitable agriculture. This is strongly underlined both by the report and by the speeches that have been made in this debate. That is an excellent thing, it is a good starting point. What we all still have to do concerns the profitability of food production. The government has done a great deal about it, but it still needs political action to correct the market balance that is currently wrong, and that is what I hope the government will do, and I believe it will do. It is one of the keys to its sustainable profitability. It is also a very good thing that we are now taking exports strongly and with it the growth of the entire food sector. After all, there has been little growth now, but through exports we can also achieve significant growth in this sector, and if we do not manage what is produced in Finland with such products in the world, then the miracle is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u23	Mr President! Domestic food brings bread to many tables, both in terms of employment and raw material. But, Mr President, as Mr Nurminen has pointed out in this Socialist Group speech, all too often the bread continues from table to trash. Yes, we should now pay attention to this and consider all the means, without excluding any means of reducing this food waste. I was pleased, therefore, that the Centre's group statement also referred to this — 400 million kilos — that is a huge amount. But I was surprised, Mr President, that in the group speech of the Assembly, it was as if the legislative means were excluded. I was a little surprised about this. We need education, we need education, but we also need to look at the means of legislation. In Vantaa, for example, after the start of distributing school food, it has become popular.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u24	Madam President! Food loss is an important issue to consider. It must be remembered that households account for 35% of the food loss: the biggest loss occurs in households and may be difficult to control by law. I won't rule it out. I myself have signed Mr Nurminen's initiative, which is a good and very worthy objective. Thank you, Minister, for raising the importance of sales, sales know-how and exports. For example, these Russian sanctions cut food exports by EUR 300 million and are now closed in a few years. Is there any concrete action on exports, on the fish industry, on the fish, on the water, because we are in a trade deficit and on both sides, on both fish and water, we have significant strengths?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u25	Mr President! I am very pleased that Mr Kiuru, if I have understood correctly, supported Mr Nurminen's concern. I would really repeat the question to the Minister: does the government have any plans to consider some legislative changes? This food waste is a big issue, especially since one of the government’s top projects is the circular economy — here it is at its best. We will support the government from here on out of the opposition. In the same context, it would be useful to know whether the membership of the Assembly is in line with what group statement is being held. Mr Koski has said when I see that there are even more progressive representatives here, such as Mr Kiuru. We should do this in the name of a circular economy, of ethics, and it would also support this vision, which, Minister, we will support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u26	Madam Speaker! The food waste and the related discussion is natural when the report is discussed. It has so much to do with it, and there are references to this in the report, and that is why it is good that the committees are now also dealing with this food waste initiative in the same context as we have sometimes discussed with Mrs Nurminen. It is the right place, and then steps will be taken to what can be done about it, to what extent the means of promoting food losses can be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u27	President! We are almost at the root of the questions. Everything has to do with everything. Food safety is not a long way from security policy and how unsafe the world is where there is no daily bread and water is threatened. One of the key reasons for the Syrian crisis has been the lack of sufficient access to clean water. This is also the dimension of the losing debate. Many speakers also touched on the crisis of profitability in agriculture, and this will have fatal consequences when, in any case, the agricultural sector has undergone drastic structural changes. The spiritual coping of farmers is hard, divorces have increased a lot, and there are many difficult questions when the number of farms decreases: "Is I the master who is the last here?"
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u28	Mr President! It is easy to agree with this vision of the food policy agenda. We want ethically and environmentally friendly food. That is why I too am surprised at the very low share of organic production in this. I would have asked the Minister: is this government committed to the last government's organic development programme, which was completed in 2013 and is in force until 2020, which aims to increase organic production, diversify the range of organic products and improve the availability of organic products in both retail and professional kitchens? An interim report was made on this in spring 2016, and there is still a long way to go. The organic surface area is only around 10%, with a target of 20%, and only 5% of organic food is used in professional kitchens, and little progress has been made. I would like to know what the government intends to do to promote organic production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u29	Madam President! This government has already done so. Minister Tiilikainen has stated that EU school milk aid is directed specifically towards organic milk, making it easier to obtain it in public kitchens. Organic food is also progressing well on the farmer side. In the same way, there is also a code for fish farming, for example, which facilitates its organisation in Finland. Circular water education is, after all, a precedent that is being copied in other countries. But I would like to use my actual speech as chairman of the local food club to appeal to all of you, now that the municipal elections are approaching: In your own municipality, turn the food strategy into a council initiative. That is the only way public food buyers can get a backrest to buy domestic, clean local food. We all know the basics here: it is great that a Finnish chicken can keep its beaks and pigtails, and it is wonderful that our grain is not forced to be inflamed
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u30	Mr President! Food is a big slice of Finnish climate decisions. The reduction of climate emissions must therefore be a key aspect of agricultural and food policy, and further concrete measures and tools are needed in further preparation. Mr President! According to studies and surveys, Finns want to improve the living conditions of farmed animals. We therefore urgently need an overall reform of the Animal Protection Act, which really improves the conditions for farmed animals. I would like to ask the Minister: when is this going to happen? It would also be appropriate to develop a reliable certificate describing the conditions of farmed animals. Such a welfare certificate would enable consumers to make animal-friendly choices and encourage producers to make extrascatheds of animal welfare. The creation certificate is good, but the organic contains many other elements, so I would see that this kind of development of a certificate focusing on animal welfare could be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u31	Mr President, Fru talman! It is nice to join in this spirit of consensus around food, but it is confusing that the assembly feels that nothing concrete needs to be done about food loss. In Western countries, as much as one third of the food bought is rejected and left uneaten. In addition, one billion dollars of food is thrown away from Nordic households and grocery stores each year. This is, of course, a burden on the climate and the economy. And the fact is that the emissions of food we are throwing away are equivalent to emissions from the entire transport sector in the world — that is, emissions from the transport sector as a whole. That's what's stopping you, isn't it? I do wonder, however, at the environmental policy line of the coalition that there is no need to intervene at all. It would therefore be interesting to hear the opinion of the chairman of the parliamentary group, Mr Jokise, that the line of the assembly is the unconcerned line of this representative, Mr Koske, or this responsible line of Mr Kiuru's intervention in food waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u32	Madam President! That was quite a misinterpretation, that there would be an irresponsible line in the assembly on food policy. We don't have one. And with regard to this food waste, I could say yes that we are looking for solutions and we are considering this problem of food waste and, as has been said here, it is now good to have that debate in connection with this report. But it is good to take into account also when it comes to food loss, when it comes to thinking that someone’s surplus food is like a common property, that it can’t be so much. It may also have other uses for the original owner. You can’t automatically socialize surplus food for some other purpose, but it also has ownership and a certain value for some other use. All in all, this debate is good and new export opportunities need to be found. We already have good examples: for example, the world's leading seller of rubber will be found in Finland, we grow edible flowers for the Asian market, Finnish berries are considered almost a drug in Asia. And all this exports will have to be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u33	Madam President! Most Finns understand that when it comes to losses and business, whether it is food sales or restaurant business, it is bad business, and its bad business is always paid for by customers. It is not a matter of reactionary behaviour in the sense that we feel in the assembly that Finland does not need new regulation to reduce losses, but that losses can also create new business opportunities for some operators. And the loser — whether the entrepreneur or anyone else — has the right to use it in the best way he sees. But new regulations in Finland certainly do not have to be created for this purpose, but consumers also need better food information and skills to be able to re-use their food residues much better than they are now. It's not a means to anything. It's a voluntary and informed user. The use of reason is always permitted and encouraged.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u34	Mr President! Can this be said more clearly than Mr Koski said in his group statement? The news on the web, the main speaker of the coalition, has been reported, and Mr Koski repeated it again: it does not support any concrete action of any kind, any legislation on this issue of food waste, which has been identified as a problem as big as the emissions from the entire transport sector in the world — and it says here that they are not going to intervene in any way. This is a major international problem, a Europe-wide problem, a Nordic problem that is widely recognised, and everyone else seems willing to resolve this big economic and big issue of climate change crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u35	Mr President! This waste debate is so much so that the coalition is involved in solving the problems, and also in this food waste, that we really recognise and recognise that this is a major challenge that must now be tackled with all our strength. Whether new regulations are being introduced or whether, for example, we should start with a bit of standards, which would make it easier and more flexible to take advantage of the waste food that has been produced in different situations, will certainly have to be considered. But, as our group president said, this regulatory side and this whole food waste solution must be resolved as part of this package, and we will certainly find a coherent line here too. I would have asked the Minister: when we have taken good steps to achieve exports through this Food from Finland programme and we have managed to speed up exports, including Russia's export deficit, is it appropriate that in future this programme should be established in some way in our budget as in Sweden? That's where they made it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u36	Värderade Talman! Vi har fantastiska livsmedel rai i Finland, rena, närproducerade och goda livsmedel. Gällande export så är, precis som Outi Mäkelä rain, Food from Finland ett fantastiskt fint program och livsmedelsexporten ökar och är en ekonomisk ljuspunkt i vårt lands economist. I Storbritannien kan man få gin från Österbotten, i Japan choklad och öl från Åland och i Belgien kan man få specialmejeriprodukter från Nyland. Det är viktigt att fortsättningsvis ge de rai satsningarna stöd. Jag vill i det bull tailsidet tacka och ge mitt beröm åt Minister Kimmo Tiilikai-nen och hans stöd för livsmedelsexport. Ministern kommer bland you give snart att leda en handelsdelegation till Sydkorea, där också bland you give det åländska microbryggeriet Stallhagen kommer att vara med. Samtidigt måste vi minnas att huvudmarknaden för finländska livsmedel så klart är hemma i Finland. Många producer kämpar med sin lönsamhet, de måste få konkret hjälp och konkreta handlingar, och det är också viktigt att livsmedelsindustrin upprätthåller sin kkonkurrenskraft. Kiky-avtalet var rauta en viktig punkt i att chipsfabriken blev kvar på Åland, för vilket jag också vill taga under kollegor rai, för stödet jag fick i den kampen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u37	Madam President! Food waste is certainly a big challenge for all of us, and it is clear that there are different ways to do this. Non-governmental organisations and parishes in Finland today are doing a tremendous job of distributing trade surplus and these so-called last-day products. But here you have to remember that it requires iron logistics expertise. It is not just the work of any voluntary organisation from time to time, but when it is made as a partner with stores, it requires logistics chains, it requires refrigeration facilities, it requires a huge number of volunteers and that every day someone is picking up those food waste items. It is therefore worth being responsible here too — when you throw this away that you should give this food, for example, to NGOs — to see if NGOs have the opportunity and the prerequisite to do so. There is one real expert in this Chamber, Mr Laukkanen. I hope he gets the floor. For more than 40 years he has been doing this catering work, so he, if anyone can tell us what the conditions are and how to go about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u38	Mr President! Food is a common thing, not just here in Finland, but globally. I began to think when I read in that account that in more than ten years we need 60 percent more food and 30 percent more water. Knowing that fields around the world are reduced because of drought, all conflicts, wars, great efforts are required to feed these masses of people. When we have this food waste discussion here, perhaps each of us will start doing in our own home so that this food waste will not come. Another point I would like to draw attention to is that it is important for this food education in schools and day-care centres that children realize that this is a life cycle of this kind, so that from an early age we know what food is and how it can simply be prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u41	Mr President! Yes, this food waste debate is very important. I have to say that the positions of the Assembly are at least unclear, or actually quite clear but confusing, if I may say so. President! I wanted to take this floor because the public greatly appreciates that Finnish food has also been produced ethically, and the public appreciates that animals are treated well. That's why I'm rushing the government to bring in a progressive animal welfare law. I am sorry that this project seems to be just staying and staying all the time. The second thing I want to say, and I hope that the Minister will make a statement, I also hope that Parliament will make a statement on this: During the last period, the Social Democrats created the post of Animal Protection Ombudsman. We supported this goal in the government negotiations and we got it through, and this was a good thing, an excellent thing and a matter of progress. Now the office of the Animal Protection Ombudsman has been suspended. We now have a unique opportunity, as Parliament, for example, to put pressure on the government. It's not about the big money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u42	Madam President! Since the group speeches, there has been a very united line for agriculture and food, even as united as last autumn in the debate on the mid-term issue, but, of course, a few different ideas are starting to emerge in this debate. The market balance that was raised by the chairman of the committee is extremely important. All in all, it is also very much related to this loss. And there is a great deal at stake here, as Mr Kiuru pointed out, that in the case of households, this loss may not be limited by legislation. But we need to think about how to get this market balance right, whether food is priced, how to make a loss — it also needs to be assessed. Then I would like to say to a few representatives here that the reform of the Animal Welfare Act is being said all the time to bring animal welfare to a better level, to be taken to new africans. We also need to look at the way in which farm animals are being treated today. The old animal protection legislation is quite different from the way today's producers operate. There are much tougher criteria than the law requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u43	Mr President! We are all in favour of Finnish food production, but far too rarely when it comes to food we talk about the Baltic Sea. However, agriculture is by far the biggest polluter in the Baltic Sea, and we, with our agricultural policy but also with our food choices, can influence whether or not the Baltic Sea is getting better. Finland has traditionally ignored the Baltic Sea perspective when making EU agricultural aid decisions. I hope that this will change because, by developing EU legislation, we will be able to influence emissions from almost the entire Baltic basin. And one of the practical ways to protect the sea and at the same time promote animal protection is to exchange animal products for plant protein-based products, such as Härkis and Snack Oats, and I would like the government to take an active part in these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u44	Madam President! Clean, safe, healthy food — it is an overwhelming claim to sell both to domestic consumers and to foreign markets. But now that we are focused here on primary production, profitability and food waste, I would also like to remind you that when we talk about food, we must also talk about public health. It has enormous importance, what food and eating habits we have, what we eat and how we eat. I would like to thank Mr Karimäki for taking this social aspect: how do you eat in day-care centres and old people's homes? This common eating has a huge educational significance, but also the importance of cohesion. Then, Minister Tiilikainen, when you talked about this, we have problems with food export and sales know-how, and we have already mentioned the Food from Finland concept, so there is a shortage of export vendors. And when you take a positive view of that matter, are you doing something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u45	Madam President! The success story of the Finnish food cluster has been possible because agricultural productivity, specialisation and radical restructuring have been possible, and it has required us to have a strong development fund. This government invested in the development fund at the beginning and is very important for agricultural investment, especially for generational exchanges, and to ensure that we will continue to have young farmers. And when we do not all have clean flour in the bag, we must remind you that the SDP's alternative budget proposed a cut of 38 million from the development fund. I would now like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: would these good speeches and visions be possible if we had acted as the SDP required in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u46	Mr Tuppurainen and Mr Laukkanen before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u47	Mr President! Politics is being made in time, and it must be an interesting coincidence that the government will give its food policy reports on the first day of the fast. I'm sure it's a coincidence, but in time this report will live. I would particularly like to thank the authors of the report and the Minister. The brick band that has been taken into account here is food safety, security of supply, now exceptionally careful. These times are what they are, there is anxiety and uncertainty. These security of supply issues just need to be considered, and that is what has been done here. Thank you for that. But I too would like to draw attention to this ethical nature of food production and, in particular, animal welfare and, in particular, the welfare of farm animals. We've been waiting here a while for that new animal welfare law. Now, Minister Tiilikainen, can you tell us when the new animal welfare law will come and what level of ambition it will have? What are you going to tell us about the asparagus, what are you going to tell us about the pig-keeping, the sow-poring cages, the pregnant cages? Will you be a model for the rest of Europe as to what high quality animal welfare standards and standards are, what consumers value today? Finnish
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u48	Madam President! I've really been in this food waste business for 45 years and I'm probably gonna keep doing it for as long as I live. I have also signed this Nurminen bill, but I still say that the best option is for each trade sector itself to take responsibility for this loss. For example, in the S group, losses have already been reduced to almost 1%. It's already so low, it's gonna be hard to make it better. In the Helsinki region, the HOK-Elanto chain is currently operating with 80 organisations to which they constantly share this loss. They have the ethical guidelines I've been doing with them, sharing this food. It works well, it is simple, it does not have bureaucracy, it does not need any legislation. There is only a common understanding that there are losers and it is wrong to throw away food — this very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u49	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u50	Mr President! Thank you to the representatives for their good, complementary aspects. Of course, I do not have time to answer everything, but I will take some of the topics that have emerged in several comments. Firstly, this threat of climate change to food production: It is real because climate change increases, among other things, water shortages, extreme weather phenomena. It is a particular threat to food production, access to clean water, and it is important that where farming conditions are preserved or even improved, this food production must then continue. It's a worldwide advantage. I am very pleased that yesterday the EU Environment Council reached agreement on the emissions trading reform. It is a step in the direction of combating climate change, and this work must be done globally to secure food for the people of the world. It is easy to jump into that food waste, which has delightedly spoken here. This is precisely a global problem. As has been said, the need for food as a result of population growth increases and a large part of the increase in food demand can be satisfied if food losses can be significantly pushed down globally. In many countries of the world, it is a question of the functioning of this food market, because a very large part of the food will disappear before it even leaves the producer. Well, in Finland, these chains work, and the biggest problem is that when you want to ensure the health and safety of consumers, then, as it were, usable food is, of course, left in stores because of these laws. Good examples were heard here of how that distribution works, and I am delighted that the chairman of the committee promised that this bill would be dealt with together with the report. These measures were asked about profitability and the profitability crisis. The crisis package, which was decided in autumn, was in that acute crisis. It is also very important that payments are now being made on time, that state guarantees on farmers' debts work. But looking ahead, I do not think there is much extra euro to be expected from that direction of the EU, but rather the opposite. That is why it is important that we have these support aspects of the rural programme, which can be obtained from the fact that we have less natural conditions for food production and, on the other hand, from the fact that we are working with emphasis on environmental protection on farms so that these income streams under the rural programme can continue to be secured for us. In the investments that Mr Kalle asked about, indeed, the fact that the Agricultural Development Fund is being capitalised has ensured that farmers are able to invest, not only because profitability is improving as the size of the production units increases, but, for example, these barn investments tend to directly improve the welfare of animals there in modern barns. The Animal Protection Act now comes about one foot with the regional reform. There are a number of articles on animal health in the regional reform that are going to be renewed and therefore it makes no sense to write them at different paces. And when the sections of the regional reform are ready, these articles will also be known in relation to the Animal Welfare Act. More specific content can be found in its time. The Animal Welfare Act will lead to better animal welfare. A lot of people around here were asking about government organic plans. In fact, when the government went through the existing strategies and reports and programmes that have been drawn up in this country — they are on shelves — we left in place what is relevant. And this previous programme for the promotion of local and organic food is still in force. That's why it's not worth rewriting a valid piece of paper. But what the government has done — now, in addition to lofty principles, concrete action has been taken. In other words, using organic products in public kitchens in practice, this emphasis on EU school milk support for organic milk is the most powerful measure that has ever been taken to promote organic food in public kitchens in this country. There was also a call for that... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u56	There were still 15 responses that were requested in advance and a large number of those who have already spoken, but it seems that there is still some need to continue the debate. So let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u57	Madam President! There has been a good debate here on food policy and a number of important points have been raised. Domestic local food is close to my heart. On this issue of waste, I would like to comment that I think that the best way to combat waste is to use local food at home, to learn how to cook, to use Finnish food and to teach children and the elderly to use domestic food. The second point that has come up in the debate is animal welfare, which is of course important, and the Minister's speech just made it clear that special attention will be paid to this in the context of the regional reform. Personally, I would like to pay particular attention to the welfare of farmers, because that too should be taken care of, both in terms of livelihood and in terms of survival. This is something that should also be taken into account in this food policy programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u58	Mr President! It is good that natural products are also included in this report. There are a lot of great, clean natural products in Finland, but we are hindered by our new food legislation and by the authorities' interpretations that we are not able to use surprisingly much of our different plants. Commercially, it is prohibited that many plants may not be used as food, only these are allowed for use in households and for the sale of herbal tea. But the following plants must not be used as a drink, for example: chamomile, yard sauna, juniper shoots, cannery, birches, golden thorn, cuckoo cabbage, yard starry, cumin other than seed. The following must not be used in food products or as a drink: chamois, carbon dioxide, blueberry, honeyberry, raspberry, pihlaja, warp leaf, lingonberry. Pine blossoms must not be used, flowers from honeygervos, pig trunks and clover. So how can we act to get our domestic products properly?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u59	Mr President! The government is a minister Under the visionary guidance of Tiilikainen, he prepared a groundbreaking and diverse food policy report. Thank you for this important piece of work. However, I missed concrete ways of improving the position of primary production in relation to processing industry and trade. This matter has already been on the agenda of a number of governments, but the wool has been scarce. Without profitable agriculture, we also have no jobs in the food industry, when agricultural products, to a large extent, would come directly into trade as imported products. All means should be used to ensure that we continue to receive high-quality Finnish food at our table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u60	Mr President! Regarding food loss, it is a really big problem: if you think that good food is thrown away and others are in line for bread, there is a huge contradiction, and that must be solved. However, Finns appreciate clean, domestic, safe food, and so has apparently world champion Ivan Niskanen. The importance of food to human health has been monitored quite closely in the products of my own home and also in my own profession. Compliance with a healthy diet is of great importance to human health and to health promotion and disease prevention in general. If we change our way of life for the better, it will have total meaning. So I would ask the Minister: would it be possible for the public sector, following the example of the state, to further promote domestic food products? This would probably have a really big impact on public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u61	Madam President! Unfortunately, the Minister has not answered this question about the Animal Protection Ombudsman. The cost would be very small, you can talk more about the fact that there is a will. I really hope that the government can now be wise in this matter and make a decision which would, in itself, improve Finland's reputation as a forward-looking, progressive country in which animal welfare is taken care of. I think it is important that the role of the Animal Protection Ombudsman should be reinstated, and I would also like this Parliament to be able to take a stand in this direction, for example, when dealing with this report. President! I cannot avoid still asking about this reform of the Animal Protection Act. You called for this regional reform with regard to the timetable, but apparently you have made some substantive policies, and now it would be good to hear what they are like. I would also like to know whether this animal welfare law is now progressive and how it will improve the status of animal protection. It's a very important line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u62	Madam President! Once again, I would like to return to this loss debate because it is also a matter of great passion on the basis of previous careers. After all, waste is not just generated in the food chain or in food production; it is produced in all sectors. It is born in all processes, including politics, and it should perhaps be inspired by it in Parliament too, to consider how this flow of government can be minimised and minimised. Mr Viitanen's question about the animal welfare ombudsman: in what way would this establishment of an animal welfare ombudsman add value to the primary production or to the producers or improve profitability, in particular with a view to simplifying, streamlining and improving transparency?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u63	Madam President! I very much hope that that speech by Mr Kosk will not tell the whole truth about the views of the government parties on this issue. In fact, we have been on numerous occasions dealing with animal protection — representatives of different parties, including representatives of government parties — where there is a commitment to take forward this role as an animal welfare agent. We know that there were good results. In many cases, among other things, the Animal Protection Ombudsman took a position on improving the level of animal protection. In this way, I believe that the mere gesture that the role of the Animal Protection Ombudsman should remain in force would be a sign that we are taking these matters seriously. I really hope that this is not the position of the whole government with regard to the Animal Protection Ombudsman, and I would stress that this cannot be a cost issue, it does not cost that much. This is a value choice and a matter of appreciation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u64	Madam President! It is nice that this food policy debate has taken place in such a consensus spirit. Looking back on previous debates, the Social Democrats, for example, have accused the government of playing a role in agricultural policy, and it is nice that we have now come to such a common line on this important issue. We could take a position on this waste debate to the extent that it is of course important that those standards should also be able to be dismantled there. It is not intended to create more regulation, but to make it easier to get new activity in Finland. In France, there are good examples of new cold centres, logistics chains, and this is also the case in Finland. But I would have asked the Minister: in Denmark and Norway, for example, a large proportion of their national GDP is also present in Denmark in the pig economy, Norway in salmon exports. How can we in Finland get a similar importance of very large volume to our national GDP for some food product?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u65	Madam President! Nonsense and good business. In our own group speech it was precisely as to whether, in this situation, we should also focus on defining what is an active farmer. We've got a lot of money going on for a little bit of a hobby. I believe that there is certainly a common view here, at least in the committee, that this should be achieved. I would therefore like the Minister, in his reply, to take a certain position on how to move on. It must be very precise what the activity is. There can't be a percentage return, and so on. But I would like to conclude by asking: do you take the catch that, in honor of Finland's 100th anniversary, a project will be launched in the Ministry, that during this year we will start processing the fact that 100 Finnish regional name-protected products will be re-exported?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u66	Madam Speaker! A well-being animal and a well-being producer, a well-being animal entrepreneur, correlate with each other. Both are needed. We also need that food market to be fair. It does not contribute to reducing food waste, it does not contribute to animal welfare, it does not promote exports, it does not contribute to the development and growth of this food sector. That is why it is extremely important for all these good things to have a fairer distribution of income in the food chain. At present, all the measures taken by producers have gone directly to consumer prices. However, the increase in producer production costs has not been reflected in any way in consumer prices. And this, if anything, shows that this market is not working. That is why we now need legislative measures to achieve this balance, as every group here has said — a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u67	Mr President! A food waste has come up in the debate in an important way. Today there are people in bread lines, poverty and underprivilegedness have increased, and on the other hand there is a lot of edible food in the shops. It is important that we can discuss this good initiative by Mr Nurminen in committee and look for solutions. For example, the example of the City of Vantaa is inspiring, and these good practices could be spread throughout the country. Then, as far as animal welfare is concerned, I am concerned if the Animal Welfare Act comes in one foot with the regional reform. Could you clarify the stage at which the drafting of the law is taking place and when it is envisaged that a draft law will be submitted to the opinions? Yes, we need a modern, good animal welfare law to improve animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u68	Madam President! As far as this loss is concerned, there is still a little confusion as to whether the vote on this issue is serious: we are extremely serious, and I would like to raise this good initiative by Ilmari Nurminen from last spring. The spirit is good at it. The question is, then, how legislation, voluntaryness, the ethical guidelines for stores are being developed — it can be considered and worth considering. Ilmari Nurminen's initiative had over 100 signatories. I was just counting that it was signed by 10 people, including myself. The present Minister, Mr Mykkänen, and the current President, Mr Satonen, will be present. So we're serious. Freedom of choice is important and I encourage the retailers to do so. Mr Laukkanen said that 1.63% of the S-chain would be wasted; it was a very good performance. To give citizens the freedom to choose between the chains of commerce and to see who acts effectively, ethically and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u69	Madam President! First of all, I must say that it is wonderful that this loss has taken place here in the debate. I would like to emphasise that this has been widely cross-party as a result of cooperation, and this shows that it has gained a strong mandate. That is why it is important that we should also act in favour of this strong expression of support. I was therefore delighted that it was promised, however, that this report would also address this issue and look for those options. However, I would like to bring this to Mr Koske's thinking that if an entrepreneur, for example, is left with a surplus product, that might make it easier at the moment to put it in the trash than to put it to charity or other use. We have to consider these structures, we legislators also have a duty to regulate and encourage consumption, and all these measures also have a tangible impact on us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u70	Madam President! In this debate on food waste, so much has been done, in fact, in this Chamber and under the guidance of this Chamber, to add to this food waste. For example, when last autumn there was a power outage in Western Finland, the outside temperature was at zero and in the cold shelf the temperature rose to 7 degrees, then all the shelves were empty and in the trash. In the summer, the consumer buys the same from a shelf at +4 degrees, takes it to his own car, the product may be 2 to 3 hours in that warm car and the consumer eats it. Of course, we understand these issues of consumer protection and health and safety, but this sort of issue must also be raised in this waste debate in order to sell them away, for example, with a 30% or 50% discount.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u71	Madam President! That's not the point. Looking at this primary food production in Finland, Finnish food is competitive in stores, but at the expense of whom? Our greatest common concern should be the livelihood of a Finnish food producer, and in this — if it were to be so playful to say — almost the whole parliament should ask itself a question of why we are not concerned about the welfare of its primary producer in this country. I ask the Minister: is the government going to ask itself a mid-term question on how to deal with this matter? This has been our entirely shared view for many years, for many governments, that the Finnish farmer, the food producer, is really under pressure, and, according to the information that has just come, suicides among them are also increasing. This debate should now be put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u72	Madam President! It is quite true what Mr Laukkanen said earlier, and the guarantee of animal welfare is also that the producer is doing well. As an ex-farmer, it is necessary to state here what measures have recently been taken to increase, among other things, leave. Among other things, the abolition of the premium and certain changes to the compensatory allowance have certainly supported this ability of the producers. Madam President! In this debate there has been little talk of trade and food distribution, of food distribution channels. After all, with the liberalisation of trade opening hours, we have had quite a change in local trade. One might say that the decline in small trades has accelerated. I do not in itself object to this liberalisation of opening hours, but this is nevertheless the fact that this kind of development is, and I would have asked whether there are any measures planned for small shops such as village shops in the situation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u73	Before the Minister, Mr Hakanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u74	Madam President! Here Mr Viitanen has on a number of occasions raised the issue of this post as an animal welfare agent. In your first speech, you pointed out that it was closed, and that was a fixed period of time, and now that you have corrected in your last speech that it was not continued, that is the right way to express this concern. I am also a little bit challenging the fact that, during the term of office of the Animal Protection Ombudsman, what actually became of the welfare of the animals and producers — something that we could argue in this joint debate, too, when assessing this proposal by Mrs Viitanen, should be taken into account again in the discharge of this post. I fully agree that this is not a matter of budget, so this is a small sum, so that it must be remembered. But the chain as a whole must also have the same rules of play and in such a way that it has some added value to the whole. And then also — what Mr Viitanen thinks — if we talk about the animal welfare agent, then it is about the undulate, the pig, the cattle, and everything in the middle that yes when we talk about the animal, we talk about the animal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u75	Mr President! This is an excellent opportunity for both the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which are dealing with this report, to address this issue as well, to invite experts to be heard and perhaps to state that Parliament's will would be for this post of animal welfare representative to be reinstated. I think that would be appropriate. I, President-in-Office, would like to talk about this parliamentary cooperation so much that I have been at numerous animal welfare events, where representatives of various parties, including the government parties, have taken a stand in favour of such a strict animal welfare law as, for example, this animal welfare agent's office. It is true that there has been, among other things, Mr Sarkomaa from the meeting, Mr Elomaa, and we have jointly said that this would be an important project. That is why I now appeal to you that, since this is not a cost issue, just as Mr Hakanen said, we could also work together to promote this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u76	Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes, and then we go to the list of speakers after him.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Myllykoski deserves to be mentioned for several reasons. I did not have time just now to answer the question of well-being, to which Mr Pakkanen, for example, and many others, referred, for example, that it is the welfare of farmers. Indeed, what has been done: the system of leave is being developed, the payment of leave payments has been reduced this year. I have expressed the hope to the Ely Centres that farmers' welfare projects will receive funding as far as possible, and fortunately they have been created on different sides. So it has been recognized that if you are in a tight spot long enough, it takes on both mental and physical resources. Thank you for bringing it up here. Several representatives, Leppä, Kiviranta, Hautala and so on, spoke about this form of income or the farmer's share. Indeed, Finland has assumed that this self-regulation of the industry works. Well, the profitability of farming is weak, as we know, and that farmer's share is quite modest of that food price. That is why it is good that even at EU level these legislative measures are being considered, how can we ensure that the farmer's fair share is guaranteed, because the subsidies cannot help to improve his livelihood. Profitability must come from the market there. For example, Mrs Elomaa asked about the importance of public procurement. The Government has now taken a decision in principle, which I hope all ministries will remember to follow when the purchasing times of food supplies expire and new competitions are launched. There is a reasonably good situation in municipalities, but now municipal decision-makers should be awake. For example, the representative Kalmari suggested that municipalities and cities should make strategic choices in order to promote the acquisition of food produced according to Finnish criteria. The representative, Mr Honkonen, asked about this issue of village trade subsidies, which is referred to in that report. As a matter of fact, I have decided that this is certainly worth more detailed clarification, so I will have it started very quickly. This kind of support exists in Sweden. In order to maintain such a basic food trade, grocery trade network throughout the country, it will be examined whether there are any conditions. With regard to animal protection, the timetable: During the spring session, the Animal Welfare Act will certainly be available for statements. When the non-social welfare package and sections of the regional reform are ready, then we will know how it will affect the animal welfare law. I have no reason to delay any further than that. I hope that the committee will be able to hold a debate with the Animal Protection Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u78	Madam President! The Government's report on food policy is a concise and understandable proposal with recommendations for action. I'm going to raise three main themes out of it. They're water, fish, and security of supply. To begin with, a few statistics. Finland’s food exports are on the increase, and their value is EUR 1.5 billion a year. Imports amount to around EUR 4.3 billion, which means that the food trade balance is almost EUR 3 billion short. The Food from Finland programme aims to double food exports to EUR 3 billion by 2020 and to create some 5,000 new jobs. The employment impact of the food sector in Finland is very significant. The industry employs almost 38,000 people directly. The loss caused by Russian sanctions amounted to EUR 300 million and has almost been closed in the last two years. New markets have been found in Asia, for example. Then from the water, Mr President, there is a significant increase in the quantity of packaged water imported into Finland from here. We have excellent groundwater resources and know-how related to water purification technology. Our tap water is often better in quality than bottled water imported from abroad. In Finland, domestic water is generally suitable for the food industry as such. The export of Finnish water expertise and water must undergo a change of rhythm. Real steps have already been taken, but much remains to be done. One of our most important strengths, namely water, is underused in our export trade. Then from the water to the fish business. We have a chance to tell the world a hell of a fish story, but first we have to put the baits and gears in order. Over 80 per cent of fish eaten by Finns are of imported origin. Our country's trade balance for fish products is EUR 350 million in deficit. By increasing the production of domestic farmed fish and increasing the processing rate of domestic fish caught, import dependency and employment could be reduced. In the world, fish catches can no longer be substantially increased. Fish Counsellor, V. Hukkanen Oy is a Finnish family company in Sastamala. The group employs over 230 people. The net sales for 2016 were over EUR 100 million. Veijo and Ulpu Hukkanen received the national entrepreneur award of the year last autumn. This encouraging example proves that fish-related business has tremendous potential. Madam President! The importance of security of supply and safety cannot be overemphasized when talking about food. Security of supply must work in all situations, including emergency situations. Security storage is well organized at our disposal. Consumers should also be prepared to store their own dry rations at the time of distribution interruptions. There is increasing news from the world of counterfeit products, large quantities of additives, food fraud and counterfeiting of origin. The resources of the Finnish authorities must continue to be safeguarded so that food safety can be regarded as commendable. It concerns Customs, the police and other food authorities. Finally, Mr President, food and own production must be valued from an early age. The responsibility for education lies with both homes and schools. Food is a uniting and happy thing that has a strong role to play in increasing community. Instead of bans, children and young people must be encouraged to make good and healthy choices. However, there are some things that need not be compromised: food is not played with, and a cap is taken while eating from the head. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u79	Madam President! The Government should be commended for this important report and also for the good comments made by Minister Tiilika. Food is essential for all of us and it is good that this issue is discussed here in Parliament. In today's society, food involves a variety of perspectives and opportunities in terms of both production and consumer choice. This report has been prepared within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and it is a good and valid reflection of important national issues concerning agriculture and food production. However, I will address this issue in particular from the point of view of public health, as is probably expected, which has been very little commented on in this recent debate. The food choices of most people are governed by habits, taste and price, but they are also based on health, ecology, ethics, domesticism, advertising and marketing. The change in the public health picture and the rise in lifestyle diseases have raised and highlighted the health and well-being effects of food increasingly in the debate. This report reflects, as I said, the activity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in particular. The short text on public health deals with food safety in the ministry's field of activity, which is, of course, extremely important and of great interest to people. However, food is of particular importance today in its composition and in the nutrition of the people, which is therefore the domain of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. When the public health part of the report actually reflects food safety in a triumphal way, it should be remembered that fortunately few Finns are seriously ill due to food safety deficiencies. At the same time, for example, around 50 people die every day from cardiovascular disease, about half a million people have type 2 diabetes and the same amount of high blood pressure. All of these foods play a very central role by means of fats, blood pressure, blood sugar control, and overweight. This is accompanied by the recommendations of the State Nutrition Advisory Board, which are therefore common to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I would have liked the report to be based on public health on these issues and on how these could be further promoted. Although food choices are everyone's own, since the Constitution, society has a duty to promote the health of its citizens, and since food really is perhaps the most important factor for today's people, society's food policy must also contribute to the health of its citizens. If this is not done, the consequences will not only be on public health, but also on the social and health burden, for example, on the future health apparatus. On the agricultural side, like the report, emphasis is placed on the farm-to-fork process, which is... [30 seconds break in sound recording] I think it is good, as has been said here in many speeches, that the report highlights the potential of Finnish food. There is a lot of good and healthy in Finnish food culture, from rye to berries, for example. Finnish food, local food and conditions offer excellent opportunities for healthy food, and this production is largely in our own hands. I would like this to be remembered by Finnish consumers and public purchasers. On this basis, it is also good to strengthen the export of Finnish food to foreign markets, which I myself, for example, have been able to follow in China. Finally, good cooperation offers us every opportunity to develop our agricultural production and the food industry in such a way that it shares the interests of domesticism, health, agricultural production, the food industry, ecology and sustainable development, i.e. society and consumers. This is very much possible, and we have good examples of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u80	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u81	Now back to the 2nd item of the daily order, the Government's report on food policy Food2030 Finnish food for us and the world. We'll continue the interrupted conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u82	Mr President! Food is the oldest business in the world. There is no end to its consumption now or in the future. It is therefore very important that we constantly consider new possibilities for the development of domestic production. The preparation of the food policy report has been a good and necessary decision. In itself, it sends out the message that the current government, under the leadership of the centre, wants to secure the future of domestic production. New means are now urgently needed in the field of food production. For years now, producers have been snooping around with unprofitable production. They have cast faith in themselves and in one another in the hope that domestic food will flourish ahead. In this objective, the credit to the current government is high and new measures are constantly awaited. In fact, the government has made a number of efforts to ease the pain of producers. Among other things, it has issued a crisis package, defined domestic criteria in public procurement, invested in highlighting origin in the package leaflets, created credit and guarantee instruments, advanced payment of subsidies and dismantled a number of standards. I am proud of these measures, but in the same breath it has to be said that more far-reaching measures are needed. The food policy report therefore provides a good opportunity to reflect on what will happen after these measures. Will there be a new, equally pro-rural government after the government's term of office, which will take similar supportive measures? Even that cannot be counted forever. We need to be able to develop in this time period. Mr President! In order to safeguard the future of food production, we need to focus on those issues that bring enthusiasm for young people, new innovations and modern know-how to the sector. This means that the appreciation of homeliness must rise to new readings, a fresh, attractive and stable industry must be created. In this respect, I believe that food education and food education are key, both in early childhood education, in primary school, in upper secondary schools, in teacher education and in upper secondary vocational schools. These issues have also been recognised in this report in a good way. Positive imagery must begin to be strongly expressed. It is not enough that we here together know the strengths of domestic production, but that we must invest in visibility and awareness-raising. The great opening of the game in this regard was Atria’s Meat campaign, which went around schools to work for homeliness. This is the kind of work we urgently need with much greater intensity. Mr President! In addition, efforts must be made to strengthen training and research in the food sector in order to generate new game openings. We need more and more modern know-how in terms of new products, export know-how and knowledge of export markets. Every sector that seeks to flourish in the future needs these elements, including our food production. I understand that negotiations between the ministries have also begun to promote this objective. Mr President! It is clear that the future prospects for domestic food rely heavily on exports. That's where the keys to solving the crisis can be found in a long run. In my opinion, one of the most important things for the success of exports is the attractiveness of the food sector from the point of view of the top experts. Well, why? Firstly, cooperation between professionals in different sectors is crucial to the success of export markets. Secondly, how can we expect that food production abroad would be of interest if it does not give rise to great enthusiasm even in our country's export professionals? In this regard, however, it should be noted that daylight is already visible at the end of the tunnel. The door to the Chinese market has finally been opened, people's interest in the purity of the food they eat is growing, and we are getting news of problems in the production methods of the competitive countries at an accelerated pace. Every new flaw in foreign production increases the demand for clean and transparent Finnish products. Mr President! A great deal of attention must also be paid to the food chain as well as to the clarification of domesticity. It is not in balance at the moment. If we do not succeed in creating added value for producers in the chain, we will continue to face profitability problems similar to those we have experienced in recent years, despite the measures taken. Producers are not demanding any lion’s share of the profits, only that each part of the chain becomes profitable. Overall, the food policy report is a good indication that the decision-makers refuse to take a short-term approach to the deep economic crisis in production. It shows that food security and security of supply in our country are important elements for the government. The report presents a wide range of highly supported measures, the best possible way of implementing which should now begin to be considered and, above all, implemented. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the Finnish food producer is doing a very valuable job. The purity, ethics, tastyness of domestic food are things that can always be trusted and taken care of in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u83	Mr President! The vision of the Government report is that in 2030 we Finnish consumers will eat tasty, healthy, sustainable and safe food. These objectives are best met by offering domestic local food. Growing up in rural areas, I know that even in a country of four seasons you can live by what is best available at any time. It was not a very long time ago when many economies were much more self-sufficient than they are today. In the spring the seeds were sprouted and in the autumn the harvest was harvested. In the summer and autumn, berries, mushrooms and apples were collected and preserved. In the vicinity of lakes and seas, the fish was a daily food. In the autumn, pigs were slaughtered, and wild game was hunted. It's not much of a everyday life these days. People move from the country closer to services and work, and few have the opportunity to live as self-sufficient as they did a few decades ago. We still have the so-called everyman's right to berry and mushrooms. Nevertheless, huge numbers of berries and mushrooms remain in the forests each year. It would be desirable to find incentives and further processing for people living in cities to be enthusiastic about this healthy and useful hobby. We must stick to entrepreneurship and production in rural areas in every way. The whole country must be kept inhabited and the whole country must be able to pursue farming in a profitable way. Agriculture has recently been in an exceptionally difficult situation and the government has, in the crisis package, targeted subsidies, in particular, on farms that have made investments, with a view to improving continuity. This will help especially in the generational exchange of farms. It is in everyone's interest that young entrepreneurs in rural areas are able to do their job. The Government has made it possible to compete more economically. This possibility should be used, for example, in the procurement of municipalities and local producers should be favoured in the tendering process. Schools, day-care centres and catering services for the elderly should be able to offer food produced in the vicinity from as fresh raw materials as possible. The undisturbed production of high-quality domestic water and the water needed for primary production and further processing of foodstuffs is a valuable thing that must be ensured throughout the water supply chain. Finland has excellent expertise in cleaning wastewater and drinking water and water management issues in general. Water supply must also be ensured under exceptional circumstances, so-called water crises. It has been seen how the problems caused by contaminated water are increasing. The report also takes into account crisis situations. It is important that our country secures domestic food supply and ensures that production is self-sufficient in case of a bad day. We also need to secure clean, non-GM production in Finland. That could be our export asset in the future. Our country is a land of thousands of lakes and the promotion of fish production is also natural. In 2015, 80 per cent of fish eaten by Finns were imported fish. The fish processing industry should be diversified and domestic fish, such as herring, should be exploited. The share of herring now accounts for about 90% of the professional catch, half of which is used as feed for fur animals. Producer prices for domestic cheese, perch and pike have increased as the supply of farmed fish, mainly rainbow trout, has increased. Today, the majority of exports are also salmon, which returns to the domestic market as fillets and other processed products, which end up in a shopping basket more easily than products that require processing. Mr President! The report is part of the national food policy and sets policy objectives and key policy priorities for the long term. Developing knowledge from early childhood education onwards throughout the life cycle is a good and sustainable basis for implementing the vision in the long term. The Government, Parliament and all actors in the food system must be committed to common food policy objectives in order to achieve them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u84	Mr President! Today we have had a distinguished debate on domestic food and its production and marketing. To begin with, I have to say that Iivo Niskanen, who won the World Cup in Lahti, did a wonderful job of marketing, because the advertisement of the Finnish meathouse appeared in his costume. Would this be one good solution for exporting domestic food to the world? As an export product, Finnish clean food is an excellent alternative. In the food policy debate, it is also important to bring together the views of different food production. I believe that healthy food should be put at the centre, as well as safety and ecology. Food must also be ethical, affordable and tasty, but in this context it should be taken into account, among other things, the point raised by Mr Hakanen, that all parties in the food chain from the farmer to the store receive its fair share and the livelihood must be guaranteed to the Finnish farmer. Last June the Government's resolution on responsible procurement in public food and food services was adopted. We're in the middle of a municipal election campaign. I hope, therefore, that all Finnish delegates and councils will follow this good principle in due course when they are in power: local food for Finnish food tables, and especially for public spaces. Public kitchens must be in the forefront of showing how Finnish clean food rises to value. In 2014, some 350 million food was taken into public kitchens each year, which is quite a significant part. All in all, public food is the only hot meal of the day for many Finns, perhaps even too many, both at school and at workplaces. This, too, makes a difference when you think about what you could do about local food to improve its position. Too often, food supply is influenced only by price in the municipalities and in the state and at the workplace. Competition in itself is justified, but it should take into account much more than just the price. When local food is discussed, it must be remembered that it is not just a local border or a provincial border, but local food that is based on the short chaining, freshness and safety of food. Regional borders and municipal boundaries do not define local food. I also think reindeer meat is local food for us in southern Finland when it is chained right and brought here south. Importing fish has also risen to the debate here, but I would like to emphasise the importance of domestic fish, and the clean lakes in Finland are a good example of this. We have a huge amount of fish that is not sufficiently appreciated. For example, the domestic perch and the perch derived from it could be a significant export product. Overall, there is a lot of demand for lake fish in Finland, but it could also have significant export markets. A great deal of research has been done on this issue, and I believe that it could create new jobs in Finland. A few things were raised here in today's debate for the food culture, and I myself would stress the importance of traditional foods. Different provinces of Finland offer good traditional food. It's the best local food. Food itself brings such an identity to us, to the provinces and to the people. From childhood, we remember many such foods — the provinces alone remind us of the good food of childhood. In particular, Mr Kiuru's comment on the importance of manners when eating must be appreciated. I am very much in favour of the emphasis being placed on things like this in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u85	Representative Paloniemi — Representative Paloniemi is absent; representative Maijala — representative Maijala is absent; representative Mikkonen — he is also absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u86	Mr President! I suppose one left-winger, three downtowners, always missed places.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u90	Mr President! At the end of his speech, Congressman Myllykoski raised this grass, including a plant called lollipop grass, which, according to the previous government’s policies, has grown in popularity quite significantly. It is also closely linked to this definition of active farming. We should probably take the next step when we get to the opening of this package, first of all to draw attention to the fact that these protection zones cannot be established by power ditches. In other words, protection zones should be established in groundwater areas along rivers and lakes. This would bring them all the most significant social benefits. Unfortunately, the government of the previous period made the line here so that it became too broad, so to speak, and some EUR 50 million went further than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u93	Mr President! The issue of security of supply was also raised in the speech, and I would like to emphasise it myself. The old saying "army marches on its stomach" is true, but there is much more to security of supply. I would therefore like Finland to consider what is the value and the whole of cereals stocks at the moment, and these issues would be taken into account. Mr Myllykoski raised the issue of protection zones in his own speech, including this so-called nonsense issue. It is important to note that, in terms of protection, as important as it is, it should make sense not to spend too much money on it on society, and the benefit of it does not always correspond to the purpose of protection. During the day, Minister Tiilikainen said that EUR 150 million of foreign meat will be imported into Finland. That's probably right. I myself have wondered many times where the foreign meat is sold, when at least I have not seen it advertised in restaurants or newspapers. Such a quantity of meat may even be a billion - dollar business, so that you are very interested. Well, a little while ago I googled: Unfortunately, frozen meat from restaurants is still mostly foreign. Precooked meat is used very much in Finland. Apparently, this is all that foreign meat. I would like to see attention paid to this too. At the end of the day, I have found that cattle, you have good meat, is a vegetarian, and when I really like beef, I interpret myself as a vegetarian in that regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u94	Mr President! There has been an excellent presentation here of both meat and crop cultivation, the field side. I thought with just a few words to open up what Mrs Myllykoski raised, which was also referred to here by representatives Hautala and Pakkanen. In the vernacular, when we talk about "stupid grass", we talk about grass in Finnish. Indeed, as Mrs Hautala said just now, during the previous government such an agreement was reached. Even then, during the negotiations, the issues were raised that this will be a huge loss of income for the active producers themselves who are, therefore, cultivating a product which is a sales product. After the first year, this was also subject to a percentage limitation of the area per holding, until then it was completely unlimited, for the first year. Here we come to a situation where, in the last year of this programming period, the EURes of the environmental programme are not enough to compensate for environmental aid — in this run, where we are now going. It is now up to the current minister and the current government to consider whether there is a solution. Then I must say, as Mrs Hautala has said, that I fully sign the concept of local food, also so that I consider it to be domestic food, I like to talk about it rather than about local food, because it is such a different concept in many ways and in many production sectors. Then that representative, Mr. Pakkanen, brings out some foreign meat. True, it must be said that many times one wonders where the foreign meat disappears when no one sells it. When you look at the counters in the store, we have a variety of small processors who also come from the region with their own great brand and bring the product to the consumer, but there is no swan flag, the Good Finland brand. There is that foreign meat processed in your province into a fine brand, and its consumer buys it when you think you're buying a local product, but it's only processed there for a great brand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u95	Mr President! I was contacted today by one farmer and said that there was a new phenomenon, which now has to do with this support policy at the moment. He said that this kind of open-field growing is raising significant parts of his head, and when the harvest obligation there on the other side is not, then he told of one case, namely that the village had one farmer put 11 hectares of dills. Dill seed is quite inexpensive, and the cultivation of this dill receives a little more than 1000 euros of aid. Well, I'm sure there's more than enough dill in it than you need. Therefore, in view of next year, it should be considered that it would no longer be possible to achieve this type of fashion phenomenon, but that the surface pattern would be limited to the surface area of the previous year so that it would succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u96	Mr President! In the local food debate, we need to take into account whether we want to think that the countryside should be kept inhabited. And then we can get to grips with the debate that even small farms have the opportunity to function profitably when this local food is identified and recognised as one of the most important things. In other words, Myllykoski has the impression that it is close to the local needs that it has a market. If it starts to grow, then it will be domestic food if it is taken elsewhere because of its volume of production. But it may be that there is local food that goes further away, but what is being processed nearby is local food. Sometimes I would like to say that it is possible to define the carbon footprint as the criterion for local food. Both are good and important things. It is true what was said here: was it the case that 17 million kilos of pork and more than ten million kilos of beef are imported into Finland every year? Yes, they come here in the form of processed products, and the prefabricated industry is one pretty big user. But, unfortunately, I too could immediately list good 100-year-old meat processing houses, which do not have the swan flag in all products. There are good products, but I would like them to have the swan flag.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u97	Mr President! With an accurate ear I listened to Mr Myllykoski’s view of local food, and I highly appreciate that thinking. It's exactly as it should be. We must also have the courage to see things in our own way, and that is how it is justified for us. I am thinking only of the fact that there was quite a lot of talk today about the fact that, as Mr Kalmari encouraged us to do, we should also take this thinking and purchasing skills to our own municipalities in such a way that this domestic local food comes. It is just, ladies and gentlemen, in such a way that in many municipalities, when the argument is spoken of as 'close-food', many times those producers are frightened that they are not able to keep going and deliver the product in quantities such as the kitchen or the catering centre requires, so that the producers must network with each other or operate through the food aid which then delivers in smaller batches, and that food package also guarantees the kitchen's homeliness. In this setting, Mrs Myllykoski, it is inevitable that the situation of leaving the neighbourhood, as it were, will go a little further and perhaps we will be outside of the province, so that the concept of 'domesticism' will be better served and that food security will be maintained. The most important thing for us is to take the message from the consumer that with what marks today it is possible to identify its domesticity. And now that Finland is 100 years old and the experiment is about to begin, it is such a hand-lifting for the consumer, as long as the consumer is then enlightened at the store to look at the sign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u98	Mr President! To this local food discussion: Now, too, it is worth remembering that these logistics chains have developed to a very significant extent and have become quite effective. This has also made it possible for shops to always offer fresh vegetables and a very wide range of products. Their central warehouses, which work quite efficiently, have made it possible for consumers throughout Finland to have access to these good, clean foods. To this point, which Mr Hakanen raised in his own speech, this security of supply: That is the case, if, for example, an individual farmer makes an offer for a potato to a municipality, then there is talk of such large volumes that when it comes to providing answers to offers, it is necessarily not yet known what the harvest is and what the security of supply is. It would then be good if farmers were to make so-called joint offers on products and then get these markets for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u99	Mr President! The local food definition is gradually beginning to emerge, and it seems that there are four local food experts in the hall. [Laughter] I will sign Mrs Myllykoski's view on how local food can be defined. Of course, I personally think it is important that it is domestic food. At least in one region, there has been a time when there have been these associations of shops or some vegetables to which farmers have been able to export smaller batches, and that is how they have always been delivered either to the school or to the municipalities or perhaps to the store. In my own speech, I wanted to emphasise that when future municipal councils and new councillors define how food and these are used in public spaces in their own municipality, the definition of local food could be considered with the idea that it is from that region, probably from outside the municipality, but if it is possible to get food from the country, it would be local food.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u100	Mr President! This has been an extremely fine debate, and I am a little surprised that such a valuable issue in the centenary year has driven representatives out of the Chamber. There are elements here for a much bigger debate, and perhaps even with my own attitude here I would like to prolong this a little further and bring up one more point. I do not remember exactly whose group statement — or whether it was in this debate — made it clear that we should take a strong line in the direction that service providers in public food packages would always put their weekly menus on one vegetable day a week. I think this is a dangerous road. I would at least like to see such a rich supply that there are always vegetables, vegetables. Let's keep that repertoire, and everyone has their own freedom of choice, so that we can also use food education to guide children, young people, all go in the direction that the whole meal is wide, it has the green one, it also has meat, fish if necessary, whatever is available. In other words, I would like to see this diversity and not so much a commitment to the fact that a one-day meal is just a plant or a vegetable, it should not go. And then there's one more thing. I will return to this municipal sector and to these procurements, and I will encourage us all to get to know, get to know those people in our own municipality who supply the raw materials for food to the kitchen there. Let's go there and take a look at the situation we're in today. It is quite a surprise for us in many municipalities when we go to meet those people and find out what level of homeness there is. Of course, every municipality must have an aim for better things, and it may be a little bit of advice on how to find that solution. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u101	Mr President! In his speech just now, Mr Hakanen called for the speech that was made here today in the group speech on this possible vegetarian day for schools. In order not to leave such uncertainty and an open question in the parliamentary minutes, I will answer it. This idea was presented by the Green MP Karimäki in the speech of the Greens and so that the schools would have such a vegetarian day. I regard it as a rather unworkable idea, because there is already feedback from schools that when there are vegetarian foods, there is a lot of food left uneaten. If vegetables are to be added to the school food selection, then they should be put there alongside other foods, increased freedom of choice and choice, it is the only way, in my view, to achieve this. If it's just a plant, then the burger grills in the area will get more customers and then the foreign meat will grow again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u102	Mr President! I myself am also part of a group that considers it important that the food is particularly diverse and that its daily ration, dish, should contain vegetables, vegetables, meat, fish, which we each want to eat according to our habits. It is an unreasonable situation that one day would be a special day, especially for vegetables or other foods. It is important to teach young people at school and, of course, at home and in families that the food plate is versatile in its serving and that there are enough vegetables and vegetables available every day for its own portion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u103	Mr President! It was good to have a representative. Hautala here completed this memory-absorbing concept of mine. Fortunately, however, this was the case here and now there is an answer. I am sure that in future this debate will also have to be addressed, that we will have a common view of the way in which vegetables and vegetables in the food package today show food recommendations, and the state of will is quite strong for many of us. I would like to raise one more point which I am sure has not come to my attention today, at least in my hearing. That even meals when prepared should be viewed on that menu. From there comes the degree of homeliness, which dishes are selected on the menu. Many of them, especially in public meals, have menus for about five to seven, up to eight weeks. When choosing those foods there, the degree of domesticity and the way in which the raw material is found in the food package are also chosen. Here I would also encourage that seasonal thinking be done, so that we do not put on the menu in the winter what is not directly obtained from the country of origin, but rather think a little about the seasons and live it up. I believe that this thinking certainly exists in a number of contracting entities, but perhaps not yet enough. But behind all this — and to return to this report — I believe that the last sentence of the vision is: 'Finland is a strong export country for high-quality and safe food and food know-how'. This, as a whole, reflects the spirit of at least quite a few speeches today. Through export, high-quality, safe food — this will get us very far. In my opinion, since this debate may not have given enough attention to the high-quality knowledge of the food industry that we have in Finland, let us conclude by pointing out that we have excellence in the processing industry, which, fortunately, still has domestic raw materials today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u104	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u105	Mr President! To begin with, congratulations to all those who today marry regardless of sex and orientation. Freedom to love, to set up a family and to be treated equally is a human rights issue. The promotion of human rights is also at stake in the work of the Council of Europe. The starting point of the organisation is that democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the press and freedom of expression in general and respect for human rights are such great pillars of a civilised society that they must be adhered to at all times in all situations. Unfortunately, however, all too often these important principles are being applied today. The cross-cutting, repeated message of the Assembly's positions and resolutions is very clear: respect for human rights and the rule of law is the basis of a stable and fair society. The increase in inequality, discrimination and unfair treatment have a negative impact on society as a whole and particularly on children and young people and the most vulnerable groups in society. The human rights situation of refugees and asylum seekers was on the agenda in each plenary session last year and will certainly be this year. In this context, it is good to say that Mrs Huovinen is currently preparing a report on the integration of refugees, and hopefully here today she will tell us about her own findings in this regard. The position of the General Assembly has been that those who are in need should be helped and that Member States should be obliged to deal with abuses, such as trafficking in human beings. Furthermore, the General Assembly has criticised the action of the European Union and the fact that EU decisions, such as the Resettlement Treaty, have not been implemented in all Member States. The restrictions on family reunification in the Member States have also been seen as an obstacle to the integration of minors in particular. The situation of unaccompanied minors is particularly worrying from the point of view of radicalisation. The terrorist attacks that have hit Europe, the refugee crisis, populism and increased hostility are testing the understanding of freedom of expression. The General Assembly has reminded us that, although freedom of expression is one of the pillars of a free society, it is not possible to say anything in the name of freedom of expression. In eliminating hate speech, the General Assembly has also emphasised the responsibility of our politicians. The Council of Europe has set up a network against hate speech, which I represent in Finland. Mr President! Freedom of expression is a right that, through responsible use, is strengthened democracy and the implementation of human rights. Some of the countries of the Council of Europe, such as Poland, Hungary and Turkey, have for some time been experiencing extremely worrying developments and journalists, for example, have not been allowed to do their work freely. This issue has been dealt with several times in the General Assembly of the Council of Europe, and it must now be said that I have recently also had to answer questions from colleagues in the Council of Europe about whether Finland, the first country of freedom of the press, is all right. For example, recent The information leaked from inside Yle is forcing us to think more closely about this. The General Assembly will closely monitor developments and developments in the Member States — currently 47 Member States. This work will take place in particular in the Monitoring Committee, the Political Committee, which will look specifically at how the Member States implement the commitments and commitments they have agreed upon when they join the Council of Europe. Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Moldova, Serbia, Ukraine and Russia are on the agenda. In addition, four countries, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Montenegro and Turkey, are subject to so-called post-monitoring. It is also important to note that the Committee decided last year to examine developments in Poland. In other words, Poland has been re-entered into the observation class, [Department : I love it! ] In addition to the above issues, the work of the General Assembly has been challenged by the situation in Russia. Russia did not submit its credentials to last year's and this year's January session and has not participated in the General Assembly since April 2014. Nevertheless, the Monitoring Committee considers that the country is still on the agenda and has often discussed the relationship with Russia. The dialogue is intensive, but the majority of the General Assembly is of the opinion that Russia's participation and participation in the General Assembly's activities will not be possible until the Crimea has been returned to Ukraine. The situation is therefore extremely difficult. With regard to Russia, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe has stressed the importance of dialogue. Without discussion and dialogue, it is difficult to understand different views and also difficult to get your own message across. In June, the Finnish delegation, under my leadership, visited Moscow, and we met, among other things, Mr Pushkov, Chairman of the Duma Committee on Foreign Affairs, and their other members. The situation in Ukraine has also been on the agenda on a number of occasions. The General Assembly has repeatedly condemned Russia's activities in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine and has urged all parties to respect international law and to remind them of the importance of implementing the Minsk Agreement. Of course, Ukraine's own judiciary and the eradication of corruption are also essential here. Again, Mr President, I would like to mention Turkey. The situation in Turkey has deteriorated considerably during the reporting year. Unfortunately, we have had to read about the attempted coup d'état in July 2016 and the subsequent cleansings, and it is clear that human rights have not always been the top priority when this postwash has been washed in Turkey. Finally, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe has consistently tried to raise important issues for Finland, such as the Convention against Violence against Women, the Istanbul Convention. This violence against women, domestic violence is still one of the most serious human rights problems in Finland. As a delegation as a whole, we have also asked Minister Soin a written question and proposed the criminalisation of forced marriages. We are obliged to do so by this same Istanbul agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u106	Mr President! The basic principles of the Council of Europe include the defence of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Once again, I am going to defend them from a Finnish perspective. In this debate, I will confine myself to point 3.6 of the report, Women and equality. For many years now, violence against women, and in particular the ban on female circumcision, has been one of the top themes of the Council of Europe. Some time ago, we read a report from Helsingin Sanomat about a girl living in Kenya who was circumcised two years ago. We know that this procedure causes a girl enormous pain. However, the girl said that she was also in favour of the circumcision of her own children because of tradition. The circumcision of girls is one of the most flagrant examples of how women in developing countries still play a catastrophic role. Girls are particularly vulnerable, as two million girls under the age of 15 become mothers every year. Childhood ends in motherhood and usually against the will of the girls themselves. Needless to say, when a child has a baby, his body, especially his mind, is not yet ready for pregnancy and childbirth. Development programs that help adult women do not necessarily help mothers with children. Although prevention is important, it is not enough on its own. We also need to address the root causes of child motherhood, namely poverty and the weakness of girls. Most of the mothers are married, and unfortunately they are not allowed to go to school. In the Council of Europe, several resolutions stress that the fight against girls' circumcision and child motherhood plays a key role in improving the role of girls. There is a need for a broad influence on governments and societies as well as on families and individuals. This is the only way to eliminate poverty and discrimination and increase equality, education and access to health care. The education of girls has a huge impact. We know that, because the sister of this Kenyan circumcised girl interviewed by the Helsingin Sanomat has been able to study and told that in the interview she has learned about the dangers of circumcision among girls. He says he's going to stand up to circumcision. Mr President! We know that the world is not ready, even though the world has become more equal in the last 100 years. There are problems in Europe and in the neighbourhood of Europe, as Mr Guzenina pointed out in his opening speech. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law need to be defended. The Council of Europe is an excellent player in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u107	Mr President! It could be said that communication, dialogue, understanding, learning from each other, is a vital prerequisite for the security of our continent and even the world as a whole. For this work, I believe that the Council of Europe offers a truly good arena. It is not quite the case and it is not the case that parliamentarians are in contact with each other. It is very important that the far wider composition of the Council of Europe not only of the European Union but also of the Council of Europe should reflect on this day and the future of our continent. As our chairman, Mr Guzenina, and the current representative, Mr Estonian, have already said, democracy, human rights, the rule of law are absolutely central to the work of the Council of Europe. But through these bigger themes we will also have access to many much more practical issues, such as the fight against inequality, corruption, tax havens throughout our continent, equality, human rights, minority groups and so on. Mr President! It could almost be said that unfortunately there has been no shortage of issues in the Council of Europe over the last few years, rather the contrary: many of the principles which have already been written down on the whole agenda of the Council of Europe have been challenged by the various Member States, but also by the fact that, both in the world and also on the European continent, different security issues have taken a completely different place. One might say that we have lived well between these walls and now we have come to a time when walls are being rebuilt. I would not wish for this time for my own children when I myself have lived in a time when walls have been dismantled, opportunities have been built. Now it seems that the situation is quite different. I would like to mention, President, briefly about the issue of refugees, because it has already been mentioned here that I am currently working on a report on best integration practices. That report will be discussed in the Committee during the April part-session week and probably then in the Council of Europe's Grand Chamber in June. It seems that refugee status has led to the feeling in many countries that it is the right way to react to the increase in refugees and immigration by closing borders. Unfortunately, this has led to an even more difficult situation for already vulnerable groups. Here I would like to make a specific reference to minors, disabled people and other special groups who have come alone. Indeed, I would like to see all European countries think very carefully about the ways in which these practices, which have now been, as it were, a panic reaction, have been adopted, even in Finland, unfortunately, for example, in terms of family reunification, serve the purpose of making these people, who in any case will remain in Europe, more integrated into our societies. So these means will be raised in that report, and together with our delegation, I have also organised an event here in Finland where we have heard experts in this field, Finnish experts. Of course, I will also try to highlight these good examples from Finland in that report. President! Asylum policy should not be driven by prejudice, fear or hatred. There should be understanding, humanity and empathy in the driver's place. This is what we are people who have been made of, and I would like to see this idea of the work of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe passed on to Parliament as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u108	Mr President! I agree with Mr Huovinen and the chairman of the Finnish delegation, Mr Guzenina, that the Council of Europe is, at this time, an even more important arena for a debate between parliamentarians at a time when these walls are being built and in many countries there is a false trend, a deterioration in the rule of law and so on. It is now interesting to see that the European Union's ability to act in certain neighbouring areas, in relation to the crises in the Member States of the Council of Europe, has been weakened — Turkey, for example, some other countries — how, after the Brexit, among others, Britain will now use the Council of Europe and how Britain will perhaps continue to view the Council of Europe as an area of action in which cooperation within Europe is being carried out. Of course, we hope that this cooperation will remain close. These threats are not diminishing at all, but are on the contrary increasing. Mr President! As I said there, the General Assembly is an important arena for discussion between parliamentarians. And especially now that there are still certain international sanctions in force in that direction towards the east, towards Russia, I think it is good that the Finnish delegation has sought the dialogue between parliamentarians that we have the opportunity to conduct. I still think it is important that, even if the governments of the Member States are heading in the direction of such a policy of sanctions and the path of escalation, the dialogue between parliamentarians should enable them to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u109	Mr President! Dialogue is extremely important, as has been said here, not only between countries, but also between different populations. The Council of Europe has been deeply concerned about the way terrorism has been allowed to take root on European soil and has also wanted to emphasise that we must not fear and hate, but we must find ways of preventing future terrorist acts. And in this important work, the prevention of radicalisation, for example, by reducing disadvantage, is extremely important. It is important that we also in Finland reduce hate speech and, sooner or later, eliminate it completely, so that hate speech by the native population against immigrants does not cause ideas that will eventually lead to radicalisation. If we look at the way in which the lack of participation in France, for example, has led to the very poorest regions from which it has started to spread, when it has not been taken seriously enough, then we must have our eyes open to the rest of Europe and learn from what has been done wrong elsewhere, and make sure that this does not happen here in Finland, and that those who remain here with us feel that this is also their society, which does not need to be fought and rebelled against, but that they want to come here to build this common country, to set up a family and build a good future alongside the ordinary people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u110	President! It is easy to agree with that point just now made by our President on this radicalisation. Indeed, its soil is a lack of participation and a lack of prospects, the lack of any prospect of access to education, working life and everything else that is going on in society, for example, as an immigrant in the new society. Therefore, this proper management of integration activities is like putting money into a bank. It is not something you should be the first to save on, it is something you should invest in. Here I would like to mention specifically this family reunification and the unfortunate changes that have been made to it across Europe. The family is a man's safe haven. If you do not get the support you can get from your own immediate circle, the encouragement and help you get from your own neighborhood, then it is very difficult to see how, for example, a minor who has become alone, who has been able to experience very serious things in times of crisis, becomes part of society. This is where we come to the very critical point where we could prevent radicalisation. President! This report, which concerns integration, will present many very concrete ways. I would just like to say briefly that, just last week, I was able to visit Portugal — where the economic situation, as we all know, has been slightly worse than in Finland — but it has managed to build all the services needed by immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers just under the same roof. I think we have an opportunity to learn from each other, and I hope that, after this report has been completed, we can also have a debate in Parliament next autumn, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u111	Mr President! This Chamber has just discussed the Government's report on food policy, and the lack of participation here in Finland often leads to the need to pick up food in food queues, and this same problem has been faced in many other European countries. Then, when we went through the huge figures on how much food we are going to lose, I am thinking only when this is a question of human rights and this is in connection with this Council of Europe's activity report, that if we could find a common constructive bridge between the two debates, in what way this food waste could be exploited so that we could confront those who have nothing in line for hours on the food lines. I know that there are many traders who, for example, are very grateful for their own trade, and then are willing to share those losers who cannot afford enough food at their own family table. Perhaps this should be encouraged and taken into account in your food discussion, which will certainly continue soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-01-ps-15.u112	Mr President! It has been good to hear from the members of the Council of Europe what important work is being done in the Council of Europe for human rights, for a good refugee policy and for integration. I really hope that Europe will increasingly seek common solutions to the refugee crisis, which has now hit the whole world on a huge scale. People have the right to seek refuge when they are victims of war or persecution. It would be very important for Europe to find a common vision of how refugees are shared between countries and how to create safe routes, especially for women and children, to reach Europe safely. Mrs Huovinen spoke very recently about the importance of integration and the importance of finding jobs for asylum seekers, their rapid learning of Finnish or Swedish and their integration into this society. The fact that they are well received here is also important for us to be able to cope with the obligation to accept refugees when we integrate them well. We have a lot of work to do here. In fact, we need more of these refugees here.
