ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, arade ledamoter! This morning we received the news of grief: four people have died in Raasepor in a collision between a train and a military vehicle. We accepted the news in shock. In particular, the breakup of a young person’s life is always a deep tragedy and cannot find a purpose for it. We ask why, and at the same time we wonder how we could prevent such accidents in the future. We don't know the victims of the accident, but we can think like Eino Leino: I don't know your beginning, I don't know your end, but both are in my heart. With these words, I would like to express the condolences of the House to the family and the loved ones. Vi håller en päst me för att hedra joht av olycksoffren. We are now going to slow down for a moment to honor the memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u2	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box and at the same time ask the representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by standing up and pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u3	Congressman Magpie.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u4	Mr President! We share our grief over the crash of Raasepor. But the everyday work of Parliament continues. I'll ask the finance minister about taxes. Two years ago, Sipilä’s government tried to legislate on the amnesty of tax evaders for so - called effective repentance, but had to cancel it. It was against the public’s sense of justice that millions of tax evasion was not punished — at a time when the lives of poor Finns were becoming increasingly difficult. That is why we were surprised when the government is now trying again to pardon tax evaders. It is hidden in a 300-page bill on tax collection. Instead of protecting charges, there is a half-percent tax increase if the tax evader who hid funds in Switzerland is afraid of being caught and reporting. You heard me right. Half a percent. There is an example of this new amnesty in the bill: if you have withheld EUR 16000 in rent, you will have to pay 80. It's less than a motorcycle speeding ticket. Such a low risk inciting tax evasion. So I ask Minister Orpo: is a half-percent tax increase really such a strong deterrent that it prevents tax evasion that takes up every year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u5	Madam President! The aim is to build the Finnish tax system as efficient and fair as possible. Taxes must be paid; it is the basis of our welfare that taxes are collected where they belong. Tax evasion is made impossible, and those who circumvent the tax are caught with good control, they are punished. To this detail, to which you referred, I must say that I do not know this detail, I must clarify this point. But it is quite clear that we are constantly building our tax system, both by domestic measures and in cooperation with the OECD and the countries of the European Union, so that it prevents tax evasion and criminal activity, i.e. tax evasion, against the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u6	Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by standing up and pressing the V button. At the same time, I would remind you that the maximum duration of both questions and answers is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u7	Mr President! It is, of course, appropriate that the Minister examines the law which has been brought here by Parliament. In fact, this half-percent tax increase for tax evaders is even more severe in reality than I have just suggested. Another example of the bill is the company that keeps a million euros out of income and then repents. So the requirement of your new law is that this EUR 1 million scam be imposed on five tons of scratches. However, here in Parliament, legal scholars have stated that such a serious case should certainly be brought into criminal proceedings — and now it would no longer be possible. With this new amnesty, the Finnish Minister of Finance encourages tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. I dare say that in Finland’s 100 - year - old history there is no government that, like Sipilä’s government, has promoted the interests of millionaires, i.e. the richest elite. Answer now, Minister Orpo, to guaranteed pensioners or students: how do you benefit from deliberately reducing government tax revenues?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u8	Madam President! We are not deliberately reducing the tax revenue of the state. We are constantly making tax legislation, the main objective of which is to ensure that the taxes that are due are paid and that the taxes are paid. We are working to ensure that our tax system works in such a way that tax evasion is made impossible. As I said, it is done within the framework of the OECD, it is done within the framework of the EU, and we constantly have new proposals for changes to prevent tax evasion on the Ecofin Council table, among other things. We do not make any bill that would allow or make tax evasion possible. It is of course the case that this proposal will come before the committee and you will certainly go through it first, and there is an opportunity, as I said, to look into it and, as I said, this detail which you raised, and this interpretation that you have made of it, I do not know, but I will look into it and we will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u9	Mr President! In effective repentance, tax collectors are forgiven for their tax consequences and avoid punishment, either in full or in part. The system has been used either on time or on a permanent basis in different countries, and this has been used in Sweden, for example, in our neighbouring country. However, European transparency is on the increase in the coming years, and the risk of hidden wealth being exposed is increasing considerably. In this context too, Minister, is it not entirely wrong to have such an amnesty when the network is tightening around these people anyway?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u10	Madam President! As you yourself said in your question, the network is getting tighter and tighter. We have more and more exchange of information, we have uniform tax systems. Within the framework of the OECD, we are also working across EU borders in order to eradicate so-called tax havens. Legislation and regulation and transparency are constantly being introduced to eliminate tax evasion, so that the taxes that Finland is supposed to pay are paid, and this is a clear basic government line. We do not make or plan any policies other than that the taxes that are due in Finland must be paid. There is still the fact that controls are becoming more effective. And if someone deliberately evades taxes, they will be punished for not paying the taxes that belong to the Finnish tax office. It's a crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u11	Mr President! Let's go back a little bit in time. Thus, in 2015, when this model of effective repentance was being discussed in Parliament, it was withdrawn at the end of the year at the request of the PS party, the then government party. But now it would seem that while the blues are in the government, this model of effective repentance is crammed within such a large, 300-page package even worse than it was then in 2015. After all, this 2015 model had only a certain window of time when this effective repentance was allowed to be done. Now that this seems to come as a complete surprise to the government, are you prepared to withdraw this proposal from the package in accordance with 2015, when you do not seem to know for yourself that this is there? And then...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u12	Madam President! This bill has not hidden any effective re-repentance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u15	Mr President! This is not, as the Minister said, really about any effective repentance. This is a procedure whereby the taxpayer himself makes a tax adjustment through the correction procedure. These examples, which Mr Harakka has just mentioned, are true of this tax increase, but we must remember, of course, that the entire income will then be taxed, that is to say, it will normally be taxed and then this tax increase will come on top of it. But I would have asked the Attorney General: However, when we have the principle of ne bis in idem in the case law, i.e. double criminality, it is not punishable twice, and it is, of course, possible in this proposal that it will be withdrawn through the criminal procedure and that this tax increase, which is relatively small, will be dropped by 0.5%, but if there has been a serious situation when this has been done,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u16	Mr President! Of course, the aim of these models is generally to maximise tax access to the country by any means possible. The models used in Europe have been partly productive, i.e. more tax revenue has been obtained for taxpayers. And now, if there is such an additional tax on overlapping processes, there will be a ban on double criminality to be assessed, and these criminal law principles must be rigorous in a certain way that double criminality should not be injured, so to speak, but in such cases... I must say that from this proposal I cannot tell you straight away how this system was built, but these are usually a little problematic in terms of this principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u17	Mr President! Finland loses hundreds of millions, even billions, each year due to aggressive tax planning. Developing countries are losing even more, even hundreds of billions. Transparency of corporate tax information is an important means of tackling tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. Fortunately, this can really be addressed through the exchange of tax information, transparency of ownership data and country-specific accounts. Country-by-country accounting means that large multinationals are required to report tax and other information on a country-by-country basis. This allows for the detection of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. The EU has launched a country-specific accounting initiative. However, some Member States are now trying to slow things down and water down the initiative. I would therefore like to ask the government how the government operates in the negotiations between EU countries and whether the government is strongly pushing for a comprehensive, complete and effective country-by-country approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u18	Mr President! Country-by-country reporting, and in particular from large companies, is the key to our being able to obtain the information of companies and thus be able to tax the company and even in the country to which that tax belongs — yes, we are driving. The more effective the system we have, the greater the access to information, the clearer the exchange of information agreements within the EU countries and, as I mentioned earlier, also outside the EU, in accordance with the agreements concluded under the OECD, the more effective we have the system. There is no reason for Finland to promote anything other than maximum transparency so that we can ensure the tax revenue that belongs to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u19	Madam President! However, the fact, Mr Orpo, is that, in addition to this new amnesty, you are still dropping the tax increase on tax evasion to less than half of what is currently in place. This means that you favour large companies avoiding taxes. It's not a surprise in itself. It's consistent. For example, this government has just decided to reduce the tax burden on millions of heirs. I have sometimes wondered, ‘ Now that the government is so eager to promote the position of millionaires, how does it feel about a regular wage earner and a pensioner who pays his taxes quite nicely, or how it may feel about a family of children whose taxes you are currently raising? ’ Minister Orphan, I would like to ask you whether you feel that all this is right. Does it feel right for the government to give tax relief to large companies avoiding taxes? How did this work out for you now, and are you prepared to cancel these motions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u20	Mr President! Once again, let us take the fact that this motion does not include the amnesty clause or active repentance. So you have to pay the taxes. And we are creating a system, constantly developing it so that we can prevent tax evasion and collect the taxes that belong to Finland. Work is being done on this on a broad front, both at home and at international level. As far as tax policy is concerned, I think the government's tax policy is good. Its focus is on work, trying, encouraging it. We have ensured that, next year, no one's income tax will be tightened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u23	Mr President! Now, I have to remind you that patience is leverage. The Parliament has decided to refer this matter to the Finance Committee, and from there the matter has been referred to the Tax Section, where experts have been consulted on this matter. I can take comfort in the fact that the Tax Section and the Finance Committee, together with the government, will be able to draw the right conclusions in due course. After all, we have experience in the near future that a good solution was found in real estate taxes, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u24	I do not think there is a question here, but one more supplementary question for Mrs Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u25	Mr President! In this very short time, the Minister of Finance has come out of total ignorance to total denial. It's a great performance. But it may have to be noted that pages 76, 148 and 149 tell us how this active repentance will be taken into account with a maximum tax rate of half a percent, and even so, I repeat, as I said earlier, that the case, according to the legal scholars, which is part of the criminal process, must, according to the government’s own example, only be treated as such a small tap. This is unheard of, and this denial of you is not very credible. But this is the line of this government. We were still the leading country in the fight against European tax evasion in 13 years. Now we're not. In Europe, the fight against tax evasion has progressed rapidly. Finland will follow. Sweden and the Netherlands, for example, are already implementing the tax avoidance directive adopted last summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u26	Mr President! This summary of yours is not based on anything at all. If you admire Sweden, then there is, for example, the active repentance in force,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u31	Next question, Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u32	Mr President! Yesterday, a bill signed by more than a hundred MPs was presented to Parliament to remove the need-tested labour force outside the EU and the EEA. There's some signatures on the left to the right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u37	Madam President! It is good to base on what has been included in the government programme. It says that work-related immigration is promoted but that the main rule of labour needs assessment is to continue with current practices. This is what I stand for because it's written on the government program. On this bill, which was here in Parliament, I was also asked for an opinion. I consistently told you what was agreed on in the government programme and that the blue group is sticking to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u38	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u39	Mr President! The Minister's assurances are not very convincing. It is said that Finland needs experts. Finland will already have them if it needs them. Specialists, researchers and people in the upper and middle management of companies have already been exempted from access testing. The argument is therefore weak. True Finns are not concerned about the effects alone. The Building Union, among others, has been very critical of these plans. However, the impact will not only affect future wage levels or the labour market in general, but the removal of the need-tested approach will create a new path to illegal immigration. It has already been flashed that those who have received a negative asylum decision can remain in work, and this is quite incomprehensible. Minister, how do you and the government themselves view the fact that illegal immigrants who have not received any kind of residence permit are now being recycled into the cheap labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u40	Madam President! You said my answer wasn't very convincing. Of course, I could stand here and tell you what I just told you. The Government Programme is what I am leaning on, and nothing else has been said, decided, or conducted or negotiated. Now that such a bill has been signed by representatives of the government parties, of course they have every right. I do not deny that at all, but I am firmly relying on the government programme and the fact that what it says is being kept. As far as this means consideration, then tomorrow we will have this kind of round table discussion on the theme, so that we can understand what it means to consider the needs. It seems that this word is being thrown around rather casually here. There's always gonna be something to it if you give up that need-to-knowing thing. We have a recent case from Uusimaa, and tomorrow I will be able to find out, among other things, what has been the result of it or if anything has happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u41	Mr President! It is important that everyone in Finland works on the right working conditions and that it is well monitored, ensuring that Finland does not create a grey economy and such a labour market. There are ways to do that and the government should strengthen them, as the previous government did. But if it comes to how Finland succeeds in the international economy, how we can get experts in different sectors where there is a need for labour and how their family members can also come to Finland, then the idea of what the government has marketed, that only certain start-ups or experts will be given the benefit of access to the Finnish labour market will not solve the whole question, because they also have spouses who want to come to Finland to work. The easiest way to promote the internationality of Finland’s economy and the attractiveness of the labour market is to remove the question of availability, but then improve the implementation of labour law for all. My question to the Minister of Finance is: would it not be better for the competitiveness of the Finnish economy and for the internationality of our labour market to stop considering access?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u42	Mr President! We have, as Minister Lindström said, a clear record of this in itself. In part, when we look at the development of our economy at the moment and its good appeal, it is quite critical that we have a skilled workforce for the needs of businesses. The first and most important way to do this is to get unemployed people in Finland or young people looking for the first job to find these vacancies. That's why we have to constantly develop our systems. We invest in training to find skilled workforce for companies. Access to employment is a whole, and we will certainly look at this package at one government table to ensure that companies receive skilled labour, because nothing would be sadder than a good economic growth and an increase in employment being cut back on the fact that companies do not have a skilled workforce.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u43	Mr President! As Mr Immonen has already strongly demonstrated, there is still a lot of false arguments and confusion in Parliament as to what the question of access is really about and the impact of its removal, for example, in Sweden. After all, Sweden has not seen a significant increase in the labour force as a result of the abolition of the availability analysis. There is no evidence of an increase in abuse, work permit trade or other exploitation. The number of families — which in itself, of course, is positive that people are able to be with their families — has not been significant through this channel. It is a great thing that Minister Lindström has called a round table to get more light on this issue, but when it is a complex matter, perhaps one round table is not enough. Are you also going to study these experiences in Sweden with the right amount of time?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u44	Madam President! One of the themes of tomorrow's debate is precisely to get a common picture of what this means-tested is. These experiences of the Building Union and the Industry Federation have been discussed many times here. So it has come to my ears from there to say that, for example, when I have visited the shipyards, I have been asked to be sidelined and said that there are problems here. But then when you ask where the facts are, the problem is that they are quite difficult to prove. This control is a problem and, of course, there should be more resources for it, because it does not currently work as it should, in my opinion. Like, Mr Kontula, you said that there is no evidence, so this is precisely one problem that can be obtained from this kind of discussion through an overall picture of where this matter is going. I fully agree that when there is talk of means-tested, the right working conditions are also part of the need-tested exercise when it is examined, not just whether a company needs a workforce.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u45	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u46	Mr President! I would first like to express my condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims of the Raasepor tragedy on behalf of the entire Green Parliamentary Group. We will give the government all our support to find out. Mr President! According to the social exclusion calculator of the Me Foundation, there are already 70,000 marginalised young people in Finland. Unesco's international education report says that Finland's biggest challenge is inequality in education. The cost of exclusion for Finland, both humanly and economically, is enormous. As pointed out in Helsingin Sanomat, the annual price tag for exclusion is EUR 1.4 billion. It is not that we cannot afford to stop the development of exclusion. It is a question of what priorities we make within the budget. The biggest problem at the moment is that we are offering young people fragmented services and far too late, only when they are already excluded. So I ask the Minister for Finance: how does the government intend to ensure that in the coming years savings will be achieved through timely services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u47	This must be more on Secretary Grahn-Laasonen's property.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u48	Mr President! Thank you to the opposition for this important attention and opening-up, which relates to the exclusion of young people. It's a big concern for the government. Similarly, ensuring equality in education and training in a world where people's lives are increasingly polarized, and unfortunately we have such development in Finland that most young people are better than ever, but then the problems pile up with certain families, certain children and young people. And here, as a society as a whole, we must do more. The correct assessment of the situation is that we have a lot of good services that have been built over the years, but they are very fragmented. And what matters is how timely the right service reaches the right child, young person and family, and this is what the government pays attention to through a number of different measures. The programme of change in child and family policy is one of the key elements that will bring it to the early stage through close cooperation between the various actors in a multi-professional way. Another aspect, then, of securing education
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u49	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u50	Mr President! We cannot afford to allow the invisibility and insecurity that result from exclusion to grow. Every young person who is excluded from working life and studies is too much. At the moment, youth unemployment is on a slight decline. However, it should be borne in mind that unemployment can be reduced either by employment or by exclusion from working life. It is extremely worrying that the number of young people who are completely excluded from working life and education is increasing. So I ask the minister concerned: what corrective measures will the government take to ensure that the disappearance of young people outside the labour market is stopped?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u51	Mr President! In Finland, too many young people are excluded from education and working life. A lot of good work has been done: the education month in Finland has already been made to work quite well, which means that almost the entire age group is moving from primary to secondary school. But then, unfortunately, the problem has also moved a little further, which means that education is too often not completed, and this is one of the things that is being paid very much attention to in the reform of vocational education and training that will come into force from the beginning of next year. In addition, this development of services, mentioned above, in a multi-professional way, plays an important role. Looking at research data and building on researched data on decision-making, it shows and shows us very strongly that we need to turn that focus to early childhood education, to the fact that more and more children will be included in high-quality, pedagogical early childhood education in the future. The government also invests in this, as well as in developing the quality of early childhood education and strengthening the staff structure, so that such a pedagogical, systematic,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u52	Värderade Talman! Lågtröskelmottagningar där unga kan få hjälp och sted av mångprofessionella team från en lucka är oerhört viktig service för unga.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u53	Mr President! It's a real situation again. In other words, when the government is carrying out social and regional reform, it has been identified as the risk that, when the services are provided by different organisers, it can create a drink that should not be allowed to be born. That is why we are currently working with the rapporteurs to ensure that this multi-professional cooperation will work seamlessly in the future, and we are working very hard on this. Just as this one-stop help has been mentioned, it also has the right perspective, so in the future we must ensure that these service chains are more individualised: identify what the need for help is and that it is adequate and timely. One of the good models we use, which we distribute to the nation, is the Ohjaamo services, where a youth gets help from a one-stop shop — what he needs, from a one-stop shop. There are good experiences of this from many localities and it is now being disseminated as a national approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u54	Mr President! An excellent question from the Green Parliamentary Group. It is clear that the segregation process is true and has also been granted from the direction of the government and several proposals for measures have been made. In view of next year's budget, there will also be a doubling of the amount of equality money, and 10 million will also be allocated to precisely the areas where it is needed. However, I would like to turn my eyes to the childhood and the work that we do in health clinics — health clinics, where we meet all families early and start thinking about how to support families. That is the job we should be looking at even more closely. So I ask Minister Saariko: what measures will be taken on the side of the maternity clinics in order to provide better support for families?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u55	Mr President! I think it is commendable that, of course, the complex and rather regrettable situation in the hands of young people at the moment, with the number of exclusions and the individual fates of young people, is getting a deeper stream in our thinking that we should intervene much earlier than after the last year of comprehensive school. One observation is the point made by Minister Grahn-Laasonen that the early years — not just early childhood education but the support of parenthood in general — are the things that could save the young path from there. One aspect of this is quite true: the core and heart of services, which is a maternity clinic for families with children. However, I think about this too, that in many cases after the first year of life and during pregnancy, the child rarely meets the child. It is therefore important that its competence, including the services of health and social care professionals, be available in places where families otherwise move,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u56	Mr President! We are discussing one of the most serious problems in Finland today. In this respect, ministers Grahn-Laasonen and Saarikko spoke in themselves of the right measures to be taken by the government. The Social Democrats have been talking a lot lately about the importance of early childhood education, and we will also have proposals to improve it in the future budget. Now the question is: why does this policy not affect and work? And even though it is like this sort of corrective measure, I quite frankly regret that the government is now driving down this young adult competence program, when it is known according to studies that 40 percent of young people who do not have a degree are unemployed — 40 percent. That is why targeted, tailor-made measures should be taken. That is, could you now consider launching this programme of skills for young adults?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u57	Mr President! A competence programme for young adults was needed when we had separate vocational education and training systems for young people and adults. It missed a fallout group, young adults who lacked a secondary degree. We are now moving on from the beginning of next year to the reformed legislation on vocational education and training, which harmonises vocational training and builds more smooth individual paths that can better take into account the starting positions. In other words, this knowledge programme for young adults will no longer be necessary. On the other hand, the government has decided to increase resources, in particular to increase the starting points for vocational training for young people. It is with just a fresh decision that we will have 1,000 new jobs specifically to combat youth unemployment, and there will then be a number of tools in the reform of vocational education and training that can prevent suspension. For example, a continuous search, i.e. if a young person is at risk of falling down, leaving education unfinished, he can quickly be selected for a new field,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u58	Mr President! The starting point for equality in education is the availability of training places where our young people are. This situation has been jeopardised by the drastic cuts in secondary vocational education, which have reduced the number of study places, especially in Northern and Eastern Finland, where there are already far too few educational places, at least in Northern Ostrobothnia, compared to the number of young people, and even before the cuts. The fact that the quality of education is reduced by cuts in a way that even contributes to the interruption of studies is a dangerous path. Reductions in secondary vocational education and training have led to a situation where in too many areas vocational qualifications are only possible for young people who are already the strongest, the most self-initiative and the most qualified to be more able to cope with independent studies, workplace training in companies and without local education. I ask the Minister what the government is doing to ensure:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u59	Mr President! I checked the number of my papers: According to the August statistics, 98.7 per cent of those leaving comprehensive school last spring had received a place of education by August. Which means we've got plenty of places to start, and we've got older people getting smaller. But it is true that, of course, we need to invest in this regional allocation, and in this context we have just made performance decisions at the Ministry, how, for example, labour policy training is targeted and how we have been able to increase resources by EUR 21 million for immigrant training pathways. And now there is also a great need for this 1,000 new jobs, student years of work to prevent the exclusion of young people. So you're saying it's important. And how can young people who are unable to study independently or need more support be adequately supported? The legislation that comes into force from the beginning of next year provides for a personal plan for the progress of our own studies, and allows us to assess the need for support. And it is, in fact, the responsibility of the organiser of education to assess which support
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u60	Next question, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u61	Madam President! There are currently different tensions, conflicts, even the threat of war more than for a long time. The current security situation and the social situation require active peace work and thus viable peace organisations. In Finland, peace organisations are important social actors and debaters whose operating conditions need to be safeguarded. Today, an application notice has been published for state aids for peace work, which shows that the allocation amount has fallen by almost half of last year and is only EUR 250,000. The funding of peace organisations has decreased throughout this reign, and I ask: does the government really not see the importance of peace work in this world?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u62	Do you have a voicemail? — Minister Terho. — — — — Who's gonna answer it now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u63	This clearly shows no one, Mr President, so we had a brief discussion about who will take responsibility, but if you refer to these applications under my ministry, then it is true that we have been considering the money with regard to how the money to be applied for is available, in the same situation, of course, as everyone else, in other words, in the absence of money. However, I would like to stress that, while the various NGOs are doing valuable work on this issue, of course, peace is a task for all of us and, above all, it is a task for politicians and governments and cannot be left to NGOs or their funding, but it is our work every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u64	I'll ask you to report if you have any further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u65	Mr President! Yes, civil society and organisations have their own meaning, but you said that this is a whole. That's absolutely true. On Monday, the think tank SaferGlobe published a report on arms control, according to which last year Finland has exported a record number of weapons to the Middle East, where there are many serious conflicts in which the human rights situation is weak in many countries. The Government still does not seem to see the problem of arms exports to the United Arab Emirates or Saudi Arabia, although both have fought since March 2015 in Yemen. According to the UN, the bombings in Yemen have been widespread and systematically targeted at civilians and the situation in Yemen is catastrophic. If you take responsibility for this, when will the government stop exporting arms to warring and violating human rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u66	Mr President! Finland’s arms export policy is responsible and the human rights situation is always taken into account. For each arms trade, a means test shall be carried out separately. The Finnish arms export line is fully in line with the EU line, and we are actually some kind of model student in this respect. As far as we are concerned, for example, our western neighbour, Sweden, who exports weapons to the Emirates, Saudi Arabia, we are quite the tinkers compared to Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u67	Mr President! Finland's increased arms exports towards the Middle East are based on the export of Patria's vehicles by means of a single trade, which — one trade — has brought the Middle East to the wallpaper as the questioner has told it. The export of armoured vehicles to the UAE does not, of course, mean the acceleration of military weapons in that region, but, on the contrary, it is precisely to calm the situation down. And it is vital for the Finnish defence industry that Finland has its own production of this kind, which, of course, is of crucial importance to us in crisis situations. It is therefore pointless to blame the government for this, which is acting with exceptional responsibility on the part of Europeans in these contexts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u70	Madam President! Minister Niinistö referred here to Sweden. According to the news, Sweden is now tightening up its arms export criteria, and these arms export decisions are always based on a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is how the government politically assumes responsibility for where the weapons are being exported. The situation in the Middle East is very inflammatory in many ways, and there is a war going on there. There is an Arab alliance that is waging war in Yemen, and now weapons have been delivered to these countries. The growth in arms exports is the result of these very trades. Now I'd like to ask the minister: Have you considered tightening and revising these criteria in Finland as well? And have the decisions been made on the basis of statements made by the State Department, or has the government taken a separate political decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u71	Mr President! Not all permits are even granted, so that we will also make negative advance decisions, but according to the Publicity Act they are not public. As regards the individual case mentioned by Mr Haatainen, it was the transfer of the aircraft platform from Robonic to the UAE, for which the UTP statement was negative, but we looked at the overall consideration. Between the government parties, we decided to take drone platforms. No defence industry products exported by Finland have been used in the Yemeni war, let alone in human rights violations, when it comes to the Middle East.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u72	Madam President! Politics is values, and it matters who we sell weapons to. The fact that we are talking about responsibility in response to arms exports to Saudi Arabia, among other things, is absolutely ridiculous. Minister, do you not see any contradiction in the fact that we are talking a lot about human rights, we are talking about them, but at the same time we are selling weapons to, among other things, regimes such as Saudi Arabia? Don't you see any contradictions, inconsistencies?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u73	Mr President! Finland complies with internationally agreed rules in the arms trade. Finland has nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, we have reason to increase arms exports in order to maintain security of supply at home. For example, the countries of the Middle East are not subject to any international arms embargo, but, for example, Saudi Arabia is exported by many, many EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u74	Mr President! Finland is an absolutely important factor in peace-keeping in the world. We have also been able to increase resources a little recently. In Lebanon, for example, in order to keep the situation calm, Finland has a very important role to play. Over the decades, Finnish peacekeepers have done and are still doing very valuable work to guarantee peace around the globe. The situation in the Middle East is tense, and the situation in Iraq in particular has changed recently. Finland has about 100 people in an educational operation in the city of Erbil. Estimates have been made that the safety situation may have deteriorated there recently. I'll ask the Minister of Defense: How do you see the security situation in that operation right now? Can Finnish peacekeepers do their work there at an adequate level of security?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u75	Mr President! The representative intervened in the very correct and timely question. I think that the Kurds, the peshmerga fighters that Finland has been training there in Northern Iraq, are quite educated. If, then, we want to continue this training work, then we are, in a sense, a party to the internal conflict in Iraq. So it may be that, in the future, Finland's focus on this OR-operation will be transferred to the protection sector from this aspect of education. No decisions have yet been taken, but they are inevitably ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u76	Mr President! The defence industry is an industry, and it is also very important that we maintain in Finland and the ability to maintain competence in this area. I would like to ask Minister Niinistö: What is the contribution of the Finnish defence industry to other countries, and what part of our defence industry goes to the Middle East, and then what specific things do we export abroad? And why is it particularly important to ensure that Finland is able to compete in the war industry?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u77	Mr President! It is essential that defence industry expertise is maintained in Finland in order to be able to maintain, for example, fighters and ships in Finland during peace and crisis. It is an essential issue for a militarily non-aligned country. There are not many countries the size of Finland that are able to maintain a very complex modern fighter machine such as Hornet, but Finland is able, and the future fighter plane, which we will acquire, must be able to maintain in Finland. And here the domestic defence industry plays an important role. The representative also asked what products we are exporting to the world. — Recently, Patria’s armoured crew carriers and then, for example, the Fine’s TRG-precision rifles. These have actually been our flagships recently when it comes to defence exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u78	Next question, Mr Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u79	Värderade fru talman! Det finns en uppenbar risk att de språkliga ragtigheterna hamnar i skymundan i landskapsreformen. Regeringen har, åtminstone hits, hållit fast vid att landskapen ska ha ett så kallat påverkansorgan för den språkliga minoriteten och inte en regelrätt nämnd.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u80	Mr President! This social and regional reform is intended to safeguard citizens' fundamental rights, including linguistic rights, in a very broad sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u83	Värderade fru talman! I utkastet till valfrihetslag som vi fick se förra veckan har det skrivits om kundsedlar och personlig budget. I regeringens papper utgår man från att landskapen i mån av öjlighet ska se till att det finns service på landskapets språk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u84	Mr President! In this recent question, it was as if we were going through the basis on which that freedom of choice is, as it were, a tool for producing different services and for strengthening the sound of our customers. That essential part is the province and the organisation of services under its responsibility on an equal basis, including in the light of linguistic rights. As far as this freedom of choice is concerned, first of all, the proposal is now on the table, and I assume that from the point of view of linguistic rights it will also be made. However, I myself think of freedom of choice as an extremely positive thing in terms of linguistic rights. There may be a social welfare centre or individual service providers of a customer voucher who consider themselves particularly strong, for example, always, in all situations, in a bilingual area, the availability of services in Swedish, for example. In my view, the question is rather that freedom of choice also means freedom to choose services better in their own mother tongue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u85	And again, Minister Häkkänen completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u86	Mr President! In addition to this, even now the municipalities have a clear responsibility in their own territory for compliance with language legislation. In the future, the wider shoulders — the wider resources and the scope for action — will be provided to these regions by the services provided in accordance with fundamental rights in their own language. And now we must also be confident that future decision-makers and officials in the province will have the responsibility for this and that we will have a control system and also this influencing system at its lowest level, which will ensure that services are actually provided. It must now also be remembered that citizens also have the right to change from a poor service provider, i.e. also if language services are not implemented for some reason, then such a service provider will very likely be cut out of that province either because of their own choice or because they do not comply with language legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u87	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 13/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general discussion begins. — Mr Hassi, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u88	Mr President! This amendment to the Land Use and Building Act partly contains existing provisions and guidelines, which are only transferred from the level of regulation to the level of the law, and also has a number of regulatory powers. In substance, the most important issues concern the way in which mobile phones can be heard in buildings that are more energy-efficient than in the past. Secondly, the government proposes some changes in the calculation of the floor area of buildings, which in practice increase the right to build. The first of these is the issue of mobile telephony: in that respect, the committee is unanimous. There has been some tension in the debate as to whether the legislation should clearly lay down the responsibility that mobile phones also belong to more energy-efficient buildings with thicker thermal insulation and energy-efficient windows containing metal and not allow the fields to pass in the same way as traditional windows — should the responsibility be explicitly imposed on either the builders or the telecommunications companies? The committee supports the wording proposed by the government, which means that these issues will be resolved in practice in cooperation with all the parties involved. The committee also considers it necessary for the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with the builders, residents and telecommunications operators, to start preparing a regulation as soon as possible providing more detailed provisions on the technical solutions required. If, then, there is a need for more detailed provisions on the allocation of cost liability in this report, then let us do so in that context. With regard to the calculation of the building right, the Government proposes that the permitted floor area may exceed, in so far as it exceeds 20 cents, the thickness of the ducts required by the different-looking building systems and also the thickness of the partition walls separating the apartments. This will encourage the dimensioning of chasms and walls so that thermal and sound insulation can be implemented in a way that promotes health and comfort. This government proposal means that, in the case of plots already decided but not yet built, the interpretation of the floor area will change in such a way that the floor area will in practice increase. There has been a slight disagreement in committee on this matter. With regard to these systems of building engineering, hormones and wall thicknesses, the committee is unanimous, inter alia, because the government's proposal contributes to the promotion of wood construction, but the committee is divided with regard to population protection. Even now, many municipalities grant the right to exceed the floor area required by the Civil Protection Act in construction projects, but in this case the municipalities have the discretion to do so. The members of the committee who have objected believe that, in the case of civil protection, the change should only apply to those formulas that will be adopted after the entry into force of this law and, in the case of old formulas, the interpretation of the calculation of the right to build would not be altered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u89	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Hassi, chairman of our committee for the presentation. First of all, this indoor coverage: It was moved on to a follow-up. The situation here is that it was now wanted to be played out, whether it belongs to the network company or to the builder. This now requires cooperation and further clarification, and of course we will look carefully at the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Communications, but we believe that it is wise to proceed. Then there was the flue and the shelters, and then there was this: it was a debate. Of course, I was also concerned about how much it affects this facade, but when we also say here that it does not affect floor heights and facade regulations and these changes are just one per cent in two, then the government's proposal in this respect must be very good and well defended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u90	Mr President! This government proposal specifically seeks to increase the construction of housing, energy-efficient buildings specifically and in such a way that the structures required by, for example, the building systems or the protection of the population would not hinder construction. The second part to be addressed by the government's proposal is to ensure the reception of mobile communications in buildings. It is proposed to amend the article on the floor area of the building so as to allow the building right to exceed the gap required by the civil protection or the building technical systems, the flue or the area needed to build a technical space open to public spaces, and also in the case of partition walls, in so far as they exceed 20 cents. As far as I am concerned, this government proposal is very good and it also makes buildings, particularly residential buildings, move. That's a good thing. The reception of mobile communications is problematic at the moment, and this will probably come up at the time when we start building nearly zero energy buildings or building energy-efficient buildings. The fact that it belongs in the entire area of the house is an important factor to consider. As has already been pointed out in the previous speeches, this matter will then be further prepared by the Ministry of the Environment, and the fact that it is possible to have reception in the new buildings there should be specifically in cooperation with mobile telephone operators, builders, designers and between them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u91	Mr President! The amendment to the Land Use and Building Act, which has now taken the form of a report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, is a good and worthy proposal. It is worth bearing in mind that I think it is important to adopt such solutions in this Parliament that facilitate construction and bring added organisms, because this will ensure that, when building regulations give a little flexibility, it will then allow for the construction of a few additional organisms, which, however, is extremely important for the resident. However, I would like to draw attention to these even zero-energy houses, mentioned by many representatives, where wall thicknesses, insulation thicknesses are becoming very thick. In those houses, however, it is worth keeping in mind that it is easy to create a situation in which massive insulating thicknesses create the problem that makes it possible for moisture to accumulate in the structures there. However, as these enormously thick insulating thicknesses are now starting to be built from now on, I would like the Environment Committee to do some research here, or rather to take it as a matter of its own, which is actually the longevity of such a zero-energy house. If moisture builds up in the structures there, it means that it is a mold house very quickly. Then the entire huge capital that has been invested in that house will be lost. Even though we are developing these fine systems, it is worth remembering that the breathability of the structures is the important thing. If the structures don't breathe, they'll mold.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u92	Mr President! At the moment, an unprecedented building boom is going on in certain areas, and this amendment to the Land Use and Building Act is excellent in the sense that this small amount of construction costs can be reduced and, at the same time, housing prices. On the other hand, this also makes it more flexible when, among other things, office space can be converted into housing, and it is precisely in the construction sector that flexibility is needed. The second aspect is that we are improving our ability to contribute to the fight against climate change, as has already been said here before, because this makes it possible to achieve better gravity ventilation and thus to build wood. In addition, this will make it possible to narrow the gap, so that high-quality building systems can be built much easier and this will improve the energy efficiency of buildings. So, a change of laws that is all in favor, just in terms of house prices and climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u93	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act is certainly to be welcomed, and I would like to raise a few points here in particular: For this indoor coverage: It is a good thing that the committee has explicitly stressed that this is a complex issue and that it is therefore essential that these cost-effective solutions and methods of assessing the presence of different situations be considered specifically in cooperation with all the parties involved, because internal coverage depends on many issues and factors and is also very complex, they are not unambiguous. In fact, even in this new house, the fine, magnificent, renovated Parliament House, I have come across a few places where there are challenges with indoor visibility, and it is certainly known that once the building has been renovated and things have been planned and needs have been taken into account as well as possible, the goal has not been that. Then the provision now mentioned is added to the law to obtain a basic legal obligation in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment to take account of internal space coverage in the technical solutions of the building. Mr President! Of course, these recordings alone are not enough, but in the same way as in the transition to zero energy and to better and closer buildings — which may not always be better — testing and related issues are particularly important in relation to those technical solutions. That is why it is essential that, even when the 5G network is to be transferred in the future — where my own home town, Oulu, is in fact the world's forerunner in the field of equipment — these tests are carried out and only then will they be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u94	Mr President! Firstly, about this increase in insulation thickness and the moisture risks it brings: the Committee on the Environment has dealt with indoor air problems and everything that needs to be improved in the construction process in a very diverse way in terms of its own area of responsibility, so that in the future, we can find buildings in which people stay healthy, both new construction and renovations. And the committee will also continue this work. For example, this week we heard an expert about the new regulations on ventilation in buildings that are under preparation. Finally, on this internal coverage of mobile communications, I would like to say that technology is developing rapidly, as Mr Talvitie said, among other things, and now we are able to see the following technological developments, but we are not in a position to predict very far forward how technology will evolve. In the places where the buildings are built, the intensity of these networks varies very strongly, so the fact that these issues are actually resolved in cooperation is important. Finally, I would like to mention this objection, of which I am one of the signatories, that the main reason why opposition representatives in the committee lodged an objection is that, in particular with regard to the calculation of the floor area of the population shelters, the change proposed by the government means a retroactive change in municipal patterns and such interference by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u95	Mr President! Mr Hassi raised an important point here, but I completely disagree with him, because I very much welcome the fact that many of these formulas, which have been made a long time ago, are now making it possible to build more efficiently and make them operational without having to start a new formula process. In particular, I welcome the fact that, when this requirement for civil protection may become a very significant additional cost for many people, especially in school buildings, and cause delays in taking the project forward, then we will now allow these excesses to this formula in this respect. I would say that this is one of these very good government proposals that we have seen in this period, and it really makes a lot of things smoother.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u96	Mr President! When this matter was discussed in the Committee on the Environment, it was stated in the hearings of committee experts that the practice of applying the civil protection system, which is now being introduced into the law by this bill, varies from one municipality to another, across Finland, and now this government proposal will lead to the abolition of this variable practice and to the same clear practice for Finland as a whole. In my opinion, that is a very good thing. This government proposal specifically increases housing construction and also reduces the cost of housing construction to the extent that the proportion of civil protection may be used to exceed the building right, i.e. it is likely that 1 to 2 dwellings or more will be added to that building. That's a good thing. This will enable construction to be carried out. Then what those who objected to in committee were concerned that this would apply to old patterns and to the unconstructed plots in them: As far as I am concerned, it is a very good thing again in this draft law that it is precisely unbuilt plots that can be used properly, that they also have residential buildings. It has also been a major concern in various cities that there are unbuilt plots. We have housing shortages in some places, and this will provide more housing where they have already been planned. It's just a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u97	Mr President! It is proposed that a new provision be made in this government proposal for the construction project to ensure that premises intended for housing, accommodation or work are designed and constructed to be safe, functional, comfortable and fit for use. This is good on paper, but in the end it is in the hands of the builder of the building. The skilled builders and good building materials are the ones a and o when we are building a good and durable building, without having to face the mold problem and the moisture damage that has also been highlighted in the debate here today. It is estimated that we have about 63,000 apartments in the basic recovery centre in Finland at the moment, and when business premises are included, this number will increase. We have a lot of industry in Finland related to construction, and Finland develops new insulation solutions and is a pioneer in the development and development of wood construction as well as various insulation solutions and smaller building modules, and it is very important that this expertise is supported and encouraged. We can be guides in good building technology options, and know-how in Finland is available. Education should be given special emphasis, and now that these old construction masters are being re-educated and increased, there has been a need for them and there will be a need for them in the future. The good old days back and the good building to glory.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u98	Mr President! Population shelters and the calculation of the floor area: For example, a representative of the City of Helsinki stated that in very many cases the City of Helsinki has already granted an exception, i.e., in practice overshooting the right to build up the floor area in respect of civil protection, but this is a case-by-case consideration. The same possibility has existed in all municipalities. Some municipalities have used it, some municipalities have not, but no higher power to which the municipalities could have no power has prevented the municipalities from using it until now. The fact that, as proposed by the Board of Directors, this change in the calculation method takes effect retrospectively means that local self-government is reduced in this respect. This extra floor gift applies only to plots that have been planned but have not yet been built, since, in the case of new formulas, municipalities will then automatically take into account when determining the permitted floor area that it means in the new formulas different from what it has meant under the law to date. For example, the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities pointed this out that in a way this gift, which construction companies are naturally happy about, does not apply to future patterns, because then this change in the calculation method is taken into account in the decision-making process in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u99	Mr President! It is quite right that bureaucracy should be dismantled, as one of the main messages of Juha Sipilä's government is. Around construction it has been dismantled and this path must continue — just as we in this report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have gone through these red tape blocks of one type, which facilitate construction and give a few more squares. Indeed, the municipalities have that 10% discretion in most cases, if there is a good reason to do so. But I would like to draw attention to one thing, which I think is the most important one. Look at the level of construction of this moment. A couple of weeks ago, there was a discussion in this house, and even in the newspapers it was reported that in the new houses in Jätkäsaari, a few months old, the water rains inside and the water flows down the walls. Where is the level of Finnish construction? It can't be like this, for God's sakes, that the new houses are going to get sour and the water is going in, that the first renovation starts two months after the residents have moved in. There is something seriously wrong with this system when such a wolf and a second comes and expensive working hours, large amounts of money are lost and expensive materials are destroyed. I'm sure we'll have to start paying attention to this a little bit. Those mold houses aren't born by themselves, they're from human error. It's kind of like in aviation accidents, that the biggest flaw in those events is always that human error. And in this building you dare to say with 100% certainty that if a two-month-old house starts leaking in water like a sieve, then there is something seriously wrong. These are the things we need to pay attention to. Whether one square is too much or too little — that is a side-effect. The important thing is to build houses where people enjoy themselves and where it is healthy to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u100	Mr President! Indeed, in addition to internal coverage, from the counting of population shelters to the squares of buildings: it is to be welcomed that this government proposal is now breaking the gap. On the other hand, especially in those buildings with a strict limit on squares — or, in a sense, a borderline, whether or not to build a shelter — the cost has been quite unreasonable for the builder. In other words, I understand what Mr Hassi, the chairman of the committee, raised about this reduction in municipal self-government, because indeed the government's proposal is based on the fact that this law also applies to the formulas that have been adopted. On the one hand, there have already been some rather varied practices in the municipalities, and on the other hand, this also makes it possible not to have to put that formula process forward again. We also have formulas with a formula accepted but no building permit applied for, i.e. unbuilt plots. Therefore, when applying for a building permit, it will be possible to assess whether the applicant is also applying for these strata of the shelter as an addition to this construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u101	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this government proposal also abolishes standards in so far as it is no longer necessary to apply for those exceptions to the renovation of civil protection to provide more housing. As has already been mentioned here, we have different practices in different parts of Finland. Now we have one law, which will then enable this activity in the whole of Finland. That's the good thing. All in all, I would be in favour of taking into account the construction of population protections in the planning process, so that centralised population protection rather than many individual small population protections in separate buildings. I think that would be a good thing. Congressman Hassi, you said this was kind of a gift. In my opinion, this is not a gift, but it will also increase the possibilities for housing construction and will also be obtained in areas already planned, such as those with unbuilt plots, those of the housing building district. That's a good thing. But then it's right here on the inside. In my opinion, it is good that the committee has now registered that the Government should continue to monitor the impact of the regulation and implementation of mobile communications networks on the internal space coverage of mobile networks and, if not, take measures to ensure that they are accessible. In my opinion, this is extremely important not only for the accessibility of mobile networks, but also for the functioning of, for example, older people's safety telephones, because we want to increase the number of elderly people living at home. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u102	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, you raised the issue of air safety and you compared this construction with that. Air safety is used in many other areas. Among other things, patient safety is always compared to being a model of flight safety there. The urgency, the lack of planning, the long subcontracting chains and the foreign labour force are among the reasons why we have this problem of moldhouses, including disposable companies, but also, of course, large operators who operate in such a way that construction is not of high quality. We need back the old-time masters to definitely build, tell, show what is good construction. Mr President! Many people who suffer from allergies and diseases caused by moisture damage have practically one disease, and life is ruined when nothing comes of help. Today there is already an understanding of the fact that you have suffered from mold damage. But these people need support, these people are in trouble, and they wonder where they can find a safe home. Recently it has been said that we need this kind of housing construction in Finland for these people who have suffered from mold. I wonder where this kind of construction and competence is at the moment in Finland. Surely, in the future, there will be an increasing need for them. Even then, this indoor coverage of mobile communications: it is an extremely important issue. Among other things, the elderly, their security telephones and their safety bracelets have already come up and the message is certain to arrive and help comes when it is needed. These, too, are often costly factors for the resident when it comes to considering why the reception is bad, and if you go to the company and say so, you will be told to buy a new device.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u103	Mr President! I agree with all those colleagues who have stressed that buildings must be built properly, so that they do not come right away, and I do not think even after decades, leaks and other things that create favourable conditions for microbial crops, which then cause people to get sick. As I said earlier, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has done a great deal of work on this issue and will continue to do so. Last season, the Audit Committee produced an in-depth report on this issue and Parliament adopted a rather long list of statements which, in my opinion, are not sufficiently implemented on the part of the government. Last autumn, the Environment Committee and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health organised a joint expert consultation on this subject. The Audit Committee and the Environment Committee had a public expert hearing on this issue in the summer of this year. In addition, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has consulted many experts on this subject at its own non-public meetings on several occasions. A lot of the members of the Committee on the Environment also participate in the indoor air group of MPs, which is 10. This month, together with Tutkas, the Society of Researchers and People's Representatives, organised an event in which we heard very shocking stories about the lives of those affected by the indoor air, and I agree with all those who have said that their situation and their illness must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u104	Mr President! This is where the Parliament’s indoor air task force came up, and I am a member of it. Yes, we had this meeting, and there were many stories and certainly have had to fight very much for things. I was looking at the Association of Local and Regional Authorities' memos and reports in connection with the work of the indoor air working group, and the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities has also been very concerned about this, and they say that a significant part of the municipal building stock, which is over 40 years old, these structures built in the 60s to 70s, are now risky structures, and this often causes moisture and mold problems. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has been concerned about the tight economic situation of the state and municipalities and the possibility of addressing them, and this correction debt is only increasing. Of course, all of us decision-makers know what kind of thinking it is when the building should be demolished and then built new ones, there are sick people and school difficulties and many more. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities also recommends such multidisciplinary expert groups. Together with people with experience and expertise in indoor air, they would be involved in planning so that we would not rebuild the wolf. There are these budget initiatives within a few paragraphs, and we in the Finnish Parliament have a budget initiative to help those who are sick from the indoor climate, so that what could be done for those who have been seriously ill either because of the poor quality of construction or because of other causes. There are about 800,000 of them in Finland. That's a significant amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u105	Mr President! This debate has now come to the point of talking about healthy construction and healthy buildings. This government proposal also makes it possible to build healthy. It is precisely in this context that provision has been made that the requirements of the building shafts are no longer an obstacle to, for example, the flow of pipelines required for ventilation, i.e. this government proposal also contributes to the construction of gravity ventilation in buildings. That is a good thing for me. All in all, indoor air problems in buildings are far too great in Finland and need to be addressed very much. I am very pleased that Parliament has taken this issue into account, particularly during this parliamentary term. Above all, this has been taken into account by the government and, as far as I am aware, the Prime Minister will also be bringing the debate here in the Chamber on this matter. Similarly, the Audit Committee has taken an interest in this. And as Mr Hassi, chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, said, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has addressed this issue at several meetings, including with regard to the quality of construction, including indoor air problems, and also with regard to people who have already suffered from indoor air problems. The future of these people and their livelihoods is a big deal about how they cope with these diseases. It should also be given attention. As far as I am concerned, this government proposal is good and I hope that this will move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u106	Mr President! True Finns have considered it very important that indoor air problems arise and action is taken against them. I dare say that the state in which we currently have housing and these mold nests, indoor air problems, prevent and slow down the sale of housing in Finland. Real estate doesn't move, apartments don't sell. One reason is also the fear of the consumer, the citizen, the resident, of buying a home, not becoming a mold bomb of any kind, and not haunting life for the next few years and taking away everything he has earned. So that whole life was worth it, that whole life acquisition, your own apartment, could turn out to be a really bad place. Of course, without a fitness check, nothing is sold today, but they are often pricey, including those fitness surveys. Of course, there is a difference in quality and it is also a question of whether you can trust it when you buy a dwelling, whether you can buy an old house that many times, if it is well done, and if you have the foundations in order, that is a good solution, and perhaps even better with a small renovation. But what has happened now during the upswing and in the past years, i.e. too much wolf, built in haste and also from bad materials, has contributed to the fact that Finns are no longer afraid to buy houses and dwellings do not sell. This is a major problem, especially in regions and smaller towns. Yes, we should also sell real estate, and not so that the prices of dwellings are falling all the time and the real estate is not moving only in large cities at an overpriced price.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u107	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 6th item of the agenda. The first signatory of both initiatives is Antero Laukkanen, who can present both initiatives in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u108	Mr President! The bill proposes to provide for a reduction in donations made for the purpose of community development cooperation. Under the proposal, the Community should deduct from its earned income a monetary contribution made to the development partner in order to promote development cooperation. Contributions of at least EUR 850 and up to EUR 25000 would be deductible. This would be laid down in the Income Tax Act. In line with the UN objective, Finland is committed to spending at least 0.7% of its gross national income on development cooperation. In Finland, the 0.7 per cent target has also been set in the Government Programme. In 2016, Finland spent a total of EUR 956 million on development cooperation. This corresponded to 0.44 per cent of GDP. In 2015, the aid amounted to 0.55%, and during this government period significant cuts have been made in development funds. According to Kepa’s estimate, the overall level of development aid is on average remaining at around 0.39% of GDP during this government term. The present tax reduction for the contribution to development cooperation is intended to contribute to the 0.7% target. In the Finnish tax system, the role of tax incentives for donations is limited. Under the Income Tax Act, the Community has the possibility to make a donation deduction from a donation made for the purpose of promoting science, art or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions to a State belonging to the European Economic Area or to a university or university receiving public funding in the European Economic Area, or to a university fund associated with them. Similarly, a deduction may be made from a donation made for the purpose of promoting science, art or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions to an association, foundation or fund designated by the Tax Administration in the European Economic Area, or associated with the above-mentioned funds, the purpose of which is to support science or art or the preservation of Finnish cultural traditions. However, society should also give greater encouragement to communities to act jointly and severally. This objective can be promoted, inter alia, by increasing the opportunities for a well-targeted tax deduction. Similarly, in the longer term, more state-oriented development aid could be transferred to a donation-oriented one, provided that the total amount of donations would enable this. This would be a significant change if this progress were successful. This would show the solidarity that citizens and communities could take together, and one might say that, in a way, the level of donations or the level of development cooperation, depending on the state’s economic situation, would be better balanced by this model. The minimum and maximum amount of deductible donations from the gift provider during the tax year would be per beneficiary. Mr President! I have made this proposal on the right to tax deduction for the donation of the Communities to development cooperation and on the right to tax deduction for the purpose of promoting development cooperation by a natural person of the same content. Both of these have the same, good goal: those who want to help will be able to help and benefit from it also when they help — and those who feel that development cooperation is pointless would not have to feel that their tax resources are being misused.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u109	Mr President! I agree with these two initiatives. I tried to read the presentation carefully, and I did not actually find any calculations as to how much this would now be expected to reduce the tax revenues of the state, i.e. what the cost might be. Now, if there is such an effect that tax revenues are falling, would this perhaps be meant to cut tax-funded development aid by an equivalent amount, which would be neutral from the taxpayer’s point of view, or should this tax-reduction aid be given to former development aid? It would not be wrong if development aid were to be transferred to a voluntary basis — on the contrary, it is precisely what the Finns of Peru have been proposing for a long time — but, at the same time, the payment of aid from both state money and voluntary resources would be merely an increase of the former, which could not be the aim.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u110	Mr President! Indeed, in this last sentence of the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum, this idea is that the current tax deduction for the contribution to development cooperation is intended to contribute to achieving this 0.7 — not exceeding, but going there. There's so much to go there. That it is not the total effort to be made here that is to be raised, but that it is to be promoted in order to achieve it more quickly. This is the computational basis here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u111	Mr President! The legislative initiatives taken by Mr Laukkanen are quite right in themselves, but this is also worth looking at from the point of view of the national economy because, if such a donation reduction is accepted, it will very quickly lead to that, I am afraid that someone will try to use this system as well, which is not very desirable. But the other aspect is that of the real economy, and that is that when the state is already supporting development cooperation by providing EUR 956 million in budget resources for development cooperation, it is, in a way, the position of Finnish citizens that we want to support development cooperation in a wide variety of ways. Then, of course, when we are behind the 0.7% set by the UN, there is the idea, however, that when we have these helpable people in Finland too, we must certainly manage that nest as well as possible first — and of course help the neighbor and the person on the other side of the world in distress. It is a Christian’s responsibility to help one’s neighbor. If a private person makes that donation today — as I have contributed some small sums in my lifetime for various purposes of assistance, but little, but certainly from a pure heart — then they are certainly extremely important to those helping people, but I would still like to see this — and, as I know, this bill will receive good treatment when it comes to further processing — these tax issues will be taken into consideration. When the state, through development cooperation, is helping the citizens of other countries and trying to improve their situation of need, we also need to look at helping our own citizens and making this country's economy better, so that we have the opportunity to help others all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u112	Mr President! Representative Laukkanen's legislative initiatives are similar to those taken by the Finns on the change of the focus of development cooperation already in 2013, i.e. very good in that respect, I must say so. So Mr Laukkanen is now only taking them to the level of the law, that is to say to the section by way of an initiative and we have had it as a boost. It is very important that when citizens are asked who you would like to help or to whom you would like to give, usually everyone has in mind which group or people, who are closest to the heart, and the model of the basic Finns is voluntary, i.e. people could voluntarily give to the group and to whom they feel important. And if you could get them out of taxation, that would be a very good and fine way. There is also the idea from the People's Party that, when there was a place in the tax return where you could put a check or write where you would like to use it for your own tax revenue, it would also be a kind of listening to the people, listening to the taxpayer, and then encouraging you to pay the taxes, so that where I would like to see my tax money allocated. It can be children, it can be elderly people, it can be students, it can be pensioners, whatever, but the fact that the citizen needs to know and know where my tax euros are going, because there is not much earmarking any more today, there is no earmarked money — that is, even as a municipal decision-maker, when it acts, when it is said that money is given to care for the elderly, it may not go there, there is no earmarked money anymore. That is why it is important for the citizen to know where his tax dollars are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u113	Mr President! Indeed, we will soon be dealing with alternative budgets, and with interest I will wait for the Christian Democrats to see how they will resolve this. Indeed, in our alternative budget we will also have the right to tax deductions, and of course we believe that development cooperation money can be cut in that regard, because this model collects them on a voluntary basis. That I am pleased now to see how the Christian Democrats have built this. We assume that, at the same time, we can also reduce government spending, that it is a pity that...—no, Mr Laukkanen,you have previously sat in a special place,as noted. It would be interesting to hear how you think about this, and it is nice to see that we agree on some points, even though there are others who disagree. And that's what it is, this parliamentary work, to get partners, because you always need over a hundred representatives to get through what you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u114	Mr President! Just as Mr Hoskonen said, it is important not to put people in distress at home, their needs, and then this development cooperation, through which we help people who are in distress far beyond the borders of our country financially and through our expertise. Both groups of people need our help, and both of us need to invest. We must not forget either group of people here when we decide on the budget and allocate resources. Mr Laukkanen's initiative raises an important issue when talking about the downward trend in development cooperation appropriations, which we have had for a long time. We are constantly moving away from the objective we have adopted in the UN, 0.7 of GDP. The trend is worrying, not just because we should ensure that we are respected in the international community as a nation committed to development, an international responsibility. This objective is also important because, when we are able to put more resources into more effective development cooperation, we also have an impact on the way people are seeking out of their own territory towards Europe and also towards Finland as asylum seekers and refugees. At a time when we are talking about tightening immigration policy when we fear our own resources here in the country, their adequacy, we should talk more about investing more in local conditions there, improving them, so that this immigration and refugee can be contained in that way and in that way resolve and also prevent the problems that may arise in the country. Mr Laukkanen's recent reply left a little unclear what exactly is being pursued here. When I am involved in the preparation of our Social Democrats' alternative budget, I was a year ago and now also, we will have a proposal to add 100 million to the development funds so that this target of 0.7 is a little closer. Well, of course, we need to work together with the other parliamentary parties in this and in the coming parliamentary term to achieve this if we want to move in that direction. This idea that voluntary donations could be tax-deductible is not new. Sometimes this has been the case. Even now, as Mr Laukkanen states in his presentation, some other donations are tax deductible. I think this idea is all right. After all, it is a kind of leverage that when a taxpayer puts a certain amount into development cooperation as a donation, then the benefit of development cooperation there is equal to that amount, but the cost to the state as a result of the loss of tax revenue is much less than the amount that was donated. It depends on the person’s tax rate. In one way, we will get more money for development cooperation from Finland if we go into such a system. For example, such a law could be fixed-term in such a way as to be checked at regular intervals that it does not become a permanent long-term automatic, but could be broken if it appears to be a decisive threat to our tax revenues. Mr Laukkanen, in your proposal you are talking about the possibility of shifting the focus from state-oriented development aid to more donor-oriented aid. This is a rather optimistic view. That could be great if this were to happen. But I personally believe that we as parliamentarians have a responsibility here, however, that state-oriented development aid will continue, that it will not be cut for that reason if this voluntary aid becomes tax deductible. Voluntary donation is now possible, is done a lot and has its own meaning. However, studies show that the most important thing for helping people in developing countries financially is for those immigrants, those who move here to industrialised and developed countries who send money to their homes, to work in Europe and in the United States and then to send money to their countries of origin. The impact of that money in the country is much greater than all the development funds combined. It is also good to bear in mind that in many ways money is being transferred from these rich countries to help those in need further away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u115	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kantola, for your very good analytical contribution. I agree exactly: we must take responsibility for poverty internationally, and that is why, of course, we cannot contrast the situation of the poor, needy Finns and the situation in the world. Indeed, as Mr Kantola said, the Social Democrats, in their own option, have wanted to prevent these cuts in development funds, which have, of course, been on a significant scale during this period, and it has not been a good choice of values. But, President-in-Office, we have, in fact, in the past, in this two-year period too, when this government has been able to stand up, asked as Social Democrats for this election promise by the Finns, because we remembered from the very beginning of the season that this was the case in the programmes, that this right to deduct tax was possible, and we have wondered whether Mr Soini, now that he is at the key place, has been able to do so. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u116	Mr President! Indeed, we have had it in the programmes, and in that very speech I said that it is now coming to our alternative budget. I am sure you will have to ask Minister Soin why it has not progressed, and he is no longer in the Finns Party. Perhaps in part the events that have also caused disappointment in the Finnish Parliament have been precisely these that certain things have not progressed. Although there has been talk in public that this has been about immigration issues, so, as you can see, Mr Viitanen, you also thought that this would obviously be a good thing, such as a tax deduction, without taking a position now on whether it will reduce the funds invested in this budget or not. In matters like this, our group has been very confused when things are not moving forward. You should ask Minister Soin why he does not keep his electoral promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u117	We're going back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u118	Mr President! Volunteering is good in development aid, and the tax deduction for donations is a very good proposal, but this whole development aid must be put on the basis of volunteering, because that is where the goodwill can be shown by everyone. Matti Kääriäinen has written the book The Curse of Development Aid. He has been in development cooperation for more than 30 years, and he says that 1% of it will come through. I read a passage like this: "The provision of development aid to poor countries has not led to the goals that were originally set for it. Extreme poverty is disappearing, mainly in countries that have not received development aid, even though official propaganda claims otherwise. In many countries development aid supports the local elite, not democratisation. As a result, nearly ten times the amount of development aid is running away from the developing countries. Multinational companies are circumventing taxes, and thousands of billions of euros are collected in tax havens. Even the development aid professionals do not know who is driving the development aid ship and which way." So like this, polishing your own shield and piousness in this hall, they will not help that poor man. At the very most, the little ones there will get richer and raise more money from the poor people. They're gonna get it because this is where the pro says the percentage gets it. If that percentage is still there for the medicine men, how much is going to go for that poor people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u119	Mr President! Some of the legislative initiatives tabled by Mr Laukkanen are quite welcome. In particular, this increase in voluntary development aid through tax incentives could give taxpayers the opportunity, if they so wish, to allocate the amounts they consider best to good targets;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u120	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u173	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u176	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u201	Mr President! Yle is doing valuable work, and we need an independent news channel. Yle’s programme policy provides a lot of feedback from citizens, especially on the large number of renewals. Of course, the content of Yle's programmes does not belong to politicians, but since Yle is the radio of the people and the people pay the Yle tax, the feedback of the public, for example, with Mr Hakkarainen's speech, cannot be reprehensible or subject to criticism. I have been involved in both these parliamentary groups. Compromises were also made. In the latter parliamentary group, among other things, the VAT on low incomes was abolished, and that was a very good decision. I can say that they were not very peaceful meetings. Especially the SDP made things very difficult and almost left with the doors blazing a few times, [Department :Oh! ] Yle can't be the one who can't be criticized. Domestic music, also produced by small operators, should play on this popular radio. What happens when the Jakenymans are no longer reporters in Yle? Even the government and the other opposition do not really support our national culture if this development is not noticed. Yle has to take care of our national culture. It's already marked in the Yle law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u202	Mr President! What was decided at the time in Yle's working group was unanimous, but we voted in the group on this and brought it. I had that opinion, I am sure Mr Satonen will remember that point I raised. By the way, that hasn't changed at all. We took the blues out of the group. There are more of them now than we Finns here, divorced. I'm sure you know what happened with the vote. We then remained in the opposition and had to accept that. Pia Viitanen regrets this kind of thing. Well, you'd get to feel bad all the time if you start to feel bad about things like this, there's so much about these things. But we were there then, and we've been completely behind it. 150 million was a motion to be cut from Yle in four years. Now 50 million is being cut, it has remained exactly the same. But when I was on the Yle-team, I respected the group's decision and acted accordingly. But now that we are the True Finns, we make a bill like this, and there is nothing wrong with it, and there is no harm in it. If I start to feel bad about every bill here, it's okay to cry in those hallways all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u203	Mr President! Indeed, the representatives Jonah Räsänen and Pia Viitanen accused the Finns of wanting to return to this public debate on the level of Yle's funding past what was previously agreed in parliamentary terms. Well, of course there may be many opinions on this, but first of all I would like to say that it is certainly better to discuss these issues here in Parliament's plenary session, which is an open and public place for all citizens. Any citizen can come here to watch these conversations and then also through the Internet these broadcasts can be viewed. This openness is appreciated by the people. It would be better if these were discussed here rather than in closed cabinets. As Mr Meri has just said, and what is more confusing to me, at least in the parliamentary working group last spring and early summer, according to public information, the Social Democrats themselves were willing to amend the early parliamentary agreement of 2016
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u206	Mr President! Representative Elomaa has just spoken very much about the content and criticism of Yle's software. I am also expanding it to discuss the attitude of Yle's content of the program and to discuss what kind of values the programs are made with and what kind of messages they want to broadcast even in the main news by the news reader. It is also disconcerting that when members of Yle’s Board of Directors have once expressed their views on the operation of YLE, it has been condemned. Who, other than a member of Yle's Board of Directors, would be more appropriate to take a stand on Yle's activities and use the voice of the owner and the payer? Who, then, should take that position if a member of the General Board of Yle cannot take that position? I am also a little confused by this profile of social democrats on this issue. Since no one else seems so interested in this matter as social democrats, what good are you now getting from Yle to reward your efforts? I find it a little incomprehensible that, while we are talking piously about parliamentary work, it is now the case that the Social Democrats themselves have been active in understanding the things that have been agreed in this House. For example, it has been agreed that Yle's funding will be transferred from the budget framework. It has been agreed when it will be moved, but now there will be constant questions in committees and divisions as to whether we can move ahead of parliamentary agreement. You, too, do not respect these parliamentary agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u209	Mr President! When we talk in such a tone and make me a subtly insinuation of what anyone from Yle gets when talking about Yle's financial position, then we should at least feel what has happened in the real world and not start a debate in the Chamber about how to Google.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u212	Mr President! I do not mean to prolong this speech, but I was forced to now, when Mr Viitanen said that we should not believe everything we can find in that goog-let. For example, this is Evening Magazine, June 1, 2017, based on STT data, and here is the fact that there was no consensus even on the assignment. I myself have sat in the Chamber when this debate was initiated by Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u215	Mr President! I did not say that the information that you might find in the previous written articles is, in itself, wrong. Some of them could be, some of them not, I didn't take a stand. I merely took the view that if we go to the level of discussion in this Chamber, to start throwing rather light throws at others and to blame them, then we should at least be informed to know these things as they are done and to know what has actually happened. I do not think that this is an issue of laxity, Mr President. This is a tradition of many decades and the fact that matters of general interest have been decided jointly between the parliamentary groups is what this is all about. This isn't a laughing matter. It's okay for me, you can tell me that Viitanen's back there, crying over there now, but I'm serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u218	Mr President! I do not quite understand why Mr. Viitanen is solittle to the article in Central Finland, which may be available on Google,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u221	Mr President! Freedom of expression is important, but I also think it is important that if we want to live in a society whose basic principle is that we assume that we respect one another, then there must be certain rules of the game, which do not depend on whether we are in the government party or in the opposition party. I believe that the Constitution is one of these things, but it is also one of those things when it comes to the public radio. It is precisely for this reason that we have a very long tradition that, regardless of whether we are in a government or opposition position, matters relating to the broadcasting of the radio will be agreed between the government and the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u223	Mr President! There is absolutely no point in prolonging this debate. In my view, however, there has been a relatively substantial attempt to discuss this matter. Of course, every time there are disagreements — and clearly, at least for the Finns and Social Democrats, there is a clear difference in the funding of Yle — then perhaps some statements are easily interpreted as personal statements. However, at least I myself — and I believe that everyone else — have had the intention of justifying their own opinions in a very factual way. At least I didn't mean to offend anyone in these things. However, I think that all these facts that can be found in the media this summer and last year — and even the older ones — should be brought to the debate. The fact that we will certainly not be able to reach agreement on this legislative initiative should be acknowledged, but I also appreciate the fact that we are discussing, as openly as possible, the funding of Yle and then, of course, the tasks of Yle and to some extent the tasks of the media in general. There may now be no reason or cause for any further intervention in the content of the programme, but I believe that this debate has served us as parliamentarians as well as the citizens, if they have been able to follow this up to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u224	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. Budgetary initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u225	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We are dealing here with budget initiatives, and I myself am raising the issue of the budgetary initiatives and principles and billboards of the Finns on which we have made them and which we attach particular importance to. And when I am on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I will raise the issues of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and then our group leader, Leena Meri, will raise the issues of our group more generally. But here I'm going to go over it briefly. The theme of the Finns Party is home, care and care. Home, care and care. They are three very important words, and they contain a lot. They include carers, elderly people, pensioners, veterans, they contain young people, they contain small issues that are actually very important, such as patient safety, they include hospice care and they also include physical activity, its importance for both the elderly and young people. They also include a meaningful and comfortable environment, stimulating your home. They include care, adequate nurses’ hands in the nursing home, and very good care. One budget initiative relates to the possibility for family carers to take free swimming and gym shifts throughout Finland. This budget initiative leaves Espoo, where a year ago, at the beginning of the year, we decided at the Board of Governors and the Sports Board that all family carers with a valid family care contract will have free access to gym and swimming services, and it has been found to help and encourage family carers to cope with the demanding work. So this is one of the budget initiatives I have taken. Patient safety is a very important issue; it has been raised several times here in Parliament year after year. It is extremely regrettable that our budget book, which contains very important and significant figures, indicators of what is happening in Finland, for two years in a row, has left out the key figures relating to patient safety and patient damage. It is to be criticised that, because of the miracle of not showing any more damage to patients in our budget book, two years in a row. How do we know how to go towards social welfare, how do we know what needs to be improved, what kind of threats we have if we are not even told how many patients are injured in Finland? If you want to know this, you have to check them yourself from one of the statistics. In the budget initiative, we propose an appropriation to strengthen the competence of patient safety care in vocational education and training. This is a very important matter to take forward. Well, when you live there, you're memory sick, tired, old, it's very important that you support living, living, being there, and with one budget we want to support the functioning of elderly people with memory problems in their homes. That is where the hospice treatment came up, which I have just mentioned, Mr President. The Government allocates one million people to the development of hospice care in Finland and in particular to equalisation of the criteria for hospice care and palliative care. That is a very good thing, but in the opinion of the Finns, it is not enough, but we demand and propose hospice treatment at the level of the law, i.e. hospice care law. In this context, I have taken a budget initiative which proposes that preparatory work for the introduction of legislation on hospice care should be started and resources allocated to it. It is very important that the right to hospice care is made subjective, that every person in Finland, wherever you are in care, is entitled to good, timely, safe, safe hospice care. Then a few more personal and own budget initiatives that I have taken here. As far as I am concerned, the whole of Finland is a Member of Parliament. The limit is only Finland, when you go around and get to know different areas, where there are bad things, and then, if possible, you can take the little themes that arise there. I visited the small town of Haapajärvi in northern Ostrobothnia, where I heard that, among other things, road projects have been attempted for years. They are small sections of the road, but they have a major impact on safety and people’s mobility, including the strengthening of industry and enterprise, the strengthening of the wheels and the rolling of the road. There is, among other things, a link between Oksava-Ahola-Parkkila, Tiitonranta-Autioranta, Värioja-Koona and Autiorantantie, where I have made a budget initiative. It's a long way from Newland. We're with Congressman Leena Mere. People from Uusimaa, but I'm sure they both think that only Finland is the limit when we move. We do good things to people. That is the position of the Finns. Well, then, this Uusimaa, which is of course very important when it is where there is a great deal of movement here in the capital region. It was a bad couple of years ago when we heard the very bad news that a schoolchildren died in the absence of a light-duty bus under a large truck, and we do think that Finland needs a light-duty bus. They absolutely must be. Safety is very important, not only for cyclists but also for pedestrians. Yes, the fairway projects in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Uusimaa region, should be put in place so that schoolchildren can move safely. By the way, it also has an effect that makes it more efficient to try, that is to say, when, for example, mines are coming and factories are coming, there is going to be a different kind of business activity, so if the fairway of light traffic in these areas is in order, they will also receive support from citizens and people, because at the same time as creating opportunities for entrepreneurship, security is also being taken care of. But from the social and health point of view home, care and care, three important words, contain an infinite number of things, and the shadow budget of the Finns-based will respond to the fact that the home, care and care will be in good shape in Finland next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u226	Mr President! Surprisingly few people around here. I think there are five Finns in Peru and then one green, even though such important things are sent to committees. The Group of Independent Finns, like other opposition groups, are now making their alternative budgets on how they would build next year's budget if they could decide that. As I am sure has been said before, our programme is built on the fact that we have a national interest as a matter of priority and internal solidarity, which means that we internally share income fairly, so that growth belongs to everyone. In our alternative budget, we will take less debt, but taxation will not increase. We have, as Mrs Juvonen has rightly pointed out, 'home, care and care' to which I will not go any further and, of course, I will not tell you everything we have, but I will take just a few budget initiatives, of which I myself and our group are very pleased. There were already a few on the table: that is, these changes in the VAT system, and then on development cooperation we have the same type of tax model as the representative. Mr Laukkanen was introduced here today, but a little different. Indeed, we have this base built so that what we receive in donations, of course the state will not yet fund it separately. But we will come back to this in November when we have referral discussions on these alternative budgets. One of the changes we have is that we increase the budget for subsidies linked to the National Pensions Index. And here we are talking specifically about low incomes, the unemployed, the housing allowance and the pension. The Finns of Peru want to leave these freezes undone, and that is why we will have increases due to these subsidies linked to the National Pensions Index. And this is one very important point, and this goes to committee. And, of course, to the government parties, the wish that you really think about how this low-income person lives, because we are always spending more and more. For example, we received visits from parliamentary groups, all parliamentary groups, as a guest of the Eetu Association, and they gave greetings that, for example, pensioners and the long-term sick and unemployed, who are unable to work, simply cannot increase those incomes by any means. Even if you have desires, you can't, and expenses are growing. It's a terrible situation. We have to stop in front of it. Then we have what we have already had in the summer — the Finnish Parliament Group presented its leading projects in the summer, and we then had these indoor-air-diseased ones. It is a great thing that, for example, this indoor air task force in Parliament works well. As noted in earlier discussions, it is indeed estimated that some 800,000 people in Finland are suffering from these indoor air diseases. For this reason, the Finns of Finland in their budget initiatives are proposing additional appropriations for housing, care, rehabilitation and social security for people who have suffered from ill indoor air, and especially for dealing with children’s ills. If the child cannot go to school, instruction should be provided. This is a serious matter. In addition, diagnostics must be invested because, as was evident in that indoor seminar, there were problems in diagnosing: diagnosis of symptoms but not of the disease itself, and therefore difficulties in showing income and its disease. Of course, this must definitely be done. One thing I would like to highlight, which we have had a great deal in the debate, is the cost of immigration. We have a budget initiative that the parliamentary group wonders that in the future government budget the unit costs of reception centres have risen, specifically the unit costs. We believe that the most expensive units should be closed down and, of course, also adhere to the principle that, yes, we must see where the money goes, there cannot be a thorn open. In addition to the recent Yle-Tax, there are many others, but you can get to know them. They have also been left behind, and some of us, of course, are not yet aware of the excitement at this stage, and then you will be able to look at the whole thing. I myself am from New Zealand, as Mrs Juvonen said, from Hyvinkää. For years, 18 years, we have not even had a Member of Parliament, and that is why I am very proud to have a Member of Parliament in Hyvinkää. This is why I wanted to remember Hyvinkää. I don't know if there's ever been any man-memory budget proposals, and we've got a few on the parking lot, and then the Hanko-Hyvinkää road platform has such a need for money to plan it. That is why I have requested EUR 200,000 for both. The second question is the question of parking, of people not being allowed to leave their wheels or stop at the motorway. That it's that kind of thing. Of course, I also hope that they will be supported by the representatives of Uusimaa and all of them. Nothing, everyone having a nice evening, and I'll be waiting for everyone else's fancy options budgets. I think we're gonna be the best.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u227	Mr President! I would also like to begin by expressing my condolences to the family for today's tragic tragedy in Raasepori. Mr President! Positive economic development both in Finland and in Europe is a very good thing from the point of view of the state budget. Improved growth forecasts give the state a little more financial room for manoeuvre, but despite this, there is not too much financial resources available to develop Finnish society and increase people's well-being. When drawing up the budget, the government always faces value choices. For example, do we want to spend money on developing early childhood education or improving the position of older people, or are hundreds of millions of tax dollars spent on development aid, the effectiveness of which may differ? We Finns feel that state funds should be used primarily to strengthen public services and improve the quality of life of Finns. The thick yellow book contains an enormous number of important articles, but now I would like to highlight a few important and topical themes. The situation of small pensioners is very difficult. The Finns of Peru are strongly aware of this in their future shadow budget. The Finns of Peru are calling for a fairer economic policy. The government does offer honey to the good people, but forgets many of the things that are important for the equal treatment of people. Let's start with the veterans of our wars. In the centenary of independence, there should be a lot of improvement for older veterans. In fact, in their budget initiative, the Finns of Peru propose a relief from the negative class of war veterans by replacing certain legal services for all those who served during the wars. Significant improvements must be made to the situation of veterans by the government, while this is possible at all. The average age of veterans is over 92 years. There's no time to lose. It is not right for veterans to have to march before Parliament House with a hat in hand to ask the government for support every year. Then we get from veterans to younger citizens. Exercise is important for children. They provide good fitness for the rest of their lives, learn how to work together for goals and make friendships. Much has been said about the heavy price tag for children and young people in recent years. It's a shame if a child doesn't get into his favourite hobby because of too much money. The Finns Party proposes a million euros of additional support to support the exercise of children with low incomes. There are strong public health grounds for supporting children’s activities, as the strengthening of their physical lifestyle will be reflected in the need for health services in the years to come. The prevention of illness, as well as the prevention of exclusion, can also be affected by increasing physical activity. That is why it is not a trivial matter. Too large groups are a key problem in terms of learning and peace in schools. We therefore propose an additional allocation of EUR 10 million to reduce the group sizes of basic education. The quality of basic education must not be compromised in the hope of savings, as it cuts the foundation from the future of Finnish and Finnish young people. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise the issue of indoor-air sick people, just as the chairman of our parliamentary group, Leena Meri, raised it well and talked about it, but I will add a little more. Where did the indoor air problems and the people who got sick forget when not much has been said about the whole issue recently? The indoor air problems have not disappeared into anything by themselves, and molding is still badly under way. In addition, there is room for improvement in the treatment of patients with indoor air problems and in the diagnosis of the need for treatment. Diseases caused by indoor air problems are often serious and may lead to a breakdown in quality of life and incapacity for work. It is the duty of society to help these people. In the context of the Sote reform, indoor air clinics established in at least every province would work to facilitate the situation of indoor air disease. I am proud that our party has submitted a budget initiative which proposes an increase of EUR 36 million in aid for indoor air disease. I hope that the government will wake up to the problems I have raised when dealing with budgetary matters and take a step towards a better policy for Finland. The future shadow budget for the Finns of Peru contains many important proposals that we expect the government to seize quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u228	Mr President! The Green Parliamentary Group has made its own alternative budget, at least since 91 C.E., every year we have been in the opposition and have not been able to negotiate the budget of the government parties. As early as the 1980s, the first green alternative budgets were made. The main ideas of the green alternative budget are to increase funds for education, students, development cooperation and also environmental protection, and we propose that the money should be used, above all, for environmentally harmful subsidies, of which the National Economic Research Centre has also stated that they are also largely ineffective in terms of business subsidies. In addition, we are proposing changes in the structure of taxation compared to the government proposal. We are not in favour of a reduction in income tax which would also apply to higher incomes. Instead, we are proposing an increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax, which is a tax reduction favouring low incomes. In financial terms, our group proposes the biggest investments in development cooperation, education, early childhood education, vocational education, universities and universities of applied sciences, the level increase in student support, the reform of family leave and free day care for 5-year-olds, the renovation of home schools and the acquisition of nature reserves. In my own budget initiatives, such as those of the group as a whole, there are both initiatives to increase government revenue or cut spending, as well as an increase in appropriations. In my own initiatives, the biggest revenue-raising point in the state is the removal of the so-called emissions trading compensation of industry, EUR 27 million. This is one of the environmentally harmful subsidies that: The State Economic Research Centre has found it ineffective. Of my own initiatives, the biggest amount of money is for the purchase of nature reserves. For home schools — and it is very good that the Finns of Finland raised this issue — the Greens are all putting forward a three-year infrastructure package in which the greatest effort would be made to repair home schools. — — — — On the revenue side, I should like to mention the initiatives of the Greens to introduce a sugar tax. — And now that this indoor air has been discussed on several occasions in this sitting, I would also like to say that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of Parliament unanimously believes that such a clinic, a clinical environmental health clinic, is needed to clarify the treatment path for those who have suffered from indoor air, which is also beneficial to the state economy, because it would put an end to the fact that those who are suffering from indoor air are, as it were, forced to go from door to door from one special care unit to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u229	Mr President! At this point in the evening, it is actually quite briefly just a few withdrawals from our Social Democrats' budget initiatives. It must not be a big secret to anyone that we disagree with the basic line of economic policy that some cuts in education or cuts in the security of people with low incomes could achieve anything good. We believe that these government cuts are a big mistake in this time, and that is why, in our budget initiative, we assume that we will not accept these major government cuts in education, but will propose more resources for our children and young people to receive good education from early childhood education to primary school and post-school education. Expertise is a Finnish asset and should not be allowed to crumble, unlike the government is currently doing. I think it is an important detail when we put forward a range of skills and growth efforts that we are also proposing, at group initiative level, to secure the funding of the Tampere 3 project, because it is a very important issue. Although it is physically located there in my own home town in Tampere, we feel that it is in the interests of the whole country, that such a development project is underway and started and that its resources are safeguarded. In the past, we have been and continue to be concerned about, among other things, the teacher training of Savonlinna and the fact that there are good opportunities for development and growth in different areas of Finland. In this way, we want to support both skills and employment across Finland. As has been said, we would not cut out education, nor would we cut down on basic human security. In other words, in our own initiatives we also emphasise that index cuts to social benefits should not be made. And we do not think it is right that at this time — while tax incentives are being given to the richest — it is the unemployed, the students, the recipients of various forms of social security who are being cut off from the small money that these people have available. It is not a good policy, it is not fair, nor is it economic policy wise to intervene in purchasing power. We have also been looking forward to action by the government to improve the situation of pensioners, for example. I would like to reiterate here that my own hope arose sometime in the summer when I heard that the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre, for example, suggested that there should be a major increase in guarantees pensions in the row. There was talk of large sums and, at the same time, a number of measures to combat pensioner poverty. It was a big disappointment when this didn't happen. And the small increase in guaranteed pensions is actually now eating away the fact that index cuts are being made at the same time. That is why, for example, the Social Democrats are making significant contributions to the status of low- and middle-income pensioners, without forgetting people who receive a small pension. Let us say in this context, although it is now a question of these budget initiatives, that, of course, when the budget is made up of both revenue and expenditure, we also have measures on the tax side which, unlike government policy, would improve the position of both a low and medium-income pensioner and then families with children, and would allow low and medium-income wage earners at all to be released more easily than the government does. We would then assume that, in the name of justice, these largest owners and millions of heirs would not quite get as much as the government would suggest. President! In addition to investing in education and basic human security, we are raising a number of cultural funds, which are related to them, because it is very important to promote culture today and I really think it is important that everyone can enjoy culture, and that is why we should invest in it. Similarly, all people, including children, have the right to engage. We also have a budget presentation to make this kind of hobby promise, and we want to promote through this people's mental well-being, creative growth and all the great things that culture and leisure opportunities are more extensive. We also want to invest important small money in the activities of NGOs, for example, because I always believe that giving some help to a non-governmental organisation will bring this money back many times over. That is why we particularly want to invest in the capacity of NGOs. The mold issues mentioned here are also very high on our agenda. All this time we have been putting forward additional funds for them, so that we can repair mold schools and repair, for example, our libraries or other public buildings and also people's homes in this respect. So we have a lot of investment in this. And, of course, we want to invest in the suburbs, for example, as a whole, and we propose resources for the counselling of residents and many other principles of this kind. President! In our alternative budget, too, there are additional budget proposals for nature and the environment, because it is important today to see that the fact that we have nature well and that it is not destroyed and that we take good care of the environment also requires resources. That is what we have also addressed in our own budget proposals, President. In addition, we have a number of initiatives in support of certain types of employment and structural change, and we therefore want to take a holistic approach to this alternative budget. As we know, these alternative budgets as a whole will be presented here in Parliament in the next few weeks and will be discussed, and perhaps our red thread is that when there is growth — and good that there is — then growth must belong to everyone. Firstly, we need to be active in terms of employment and then we need to ensure that growth belongs to everyone. In this respect, we have been a little concerned about this government line, according to which growth seems to only belong to the millionaires and the rest of the good people, and then small people are missing out on this growth. One important example: we want growth to belong to everyone, including those hardworking teachers in the public sector, carers, cleaners, institutional helpers, all these fine people who are doing our common well-being, and that is why we want, for example, these unfair holiday payments cuts to be cancelled. Here, President, in a very concise nutshell, our financial initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u230	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Transport and as a concerned representative of the motorist, I would like to highlight two initiatives by the Group of the Greens, which are in fact equal: one plus 5 million, the other minus 5 million, although from the minus 5 million, the vast majority of these initiatives are actually returned to consumption, as we will be able to see later. First of all, I would like to mention the plus, that is, the budgetary initiative 291 on the increase in the income tax estimate resulting from the introduction of the heavy goods transport vignette. It has been said for years that various road user charges are being collected in the European Union in all countries except Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Foreign companies can transport Finland using the road network because it is free of charge for them. The maintenance of the road network is managed by a Finnish taxpayer, and foreign companies do not participate in the maintenance of the road network in any way. Now that the EU gives us the opportunity to set such a vignette fee, we should finally implement it and take that money out of it. Then the budget initiative 292 to reduce the estimate of income tax resulting from the cancellation of the increase in transport user charges. This is about the fact that car user charges are already excessive. They are particularly unreasonable for a low-income, necessarily-needed provincial citizen who cannot afford to buy new low-emission cars but who has to buy older, high-emission cars where these charges are higher. We are proposing that these increases in payment should at least no longer be made. It would be good if payments could even be reduced, but cancelling increases is also a good start here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u231	Mr President! I would like to comment on a few more points on the budgetary initiatives taken by the Group of the Finnish People's Party, although they have already been well opened by at least three representatives, but perhaps a few more points deserve a presentation. Firstly, we have a budget initiative for a pilot project on migration grants. There is no large-scale shortage of labour in Finland but, admittedly, in some sectors there may be a shortage of labour due to the problem of matching, for example, i.e. the workplace may be a little further away from the local area of residence. If this were the case, it would be much easier to accept short-term work. We think it would be very good if such a pilot were to be organised and seen if it would contribute to employment. And then there's the other thing: Education is really important, there have been unfortunate cuts, but now all we have to do is invest in those areas of education that have a good chance of continuing to work. We are proposing additional funding for apprenticeships. There a young person can then receive guidance and guidance from a true master through apprenticeship training, and his employment opportunities are very good. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the decision-makers must set an example in these cuts in difficult economic times. That is why we are proposing a 15% cut in party support, as well as a 15% cut for political youth organisations. In particular, they are of moral importance to us. Of course, Mr Meri has already mentioned the cost of immigration, to which we have also proposed cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u232	Mr President! Mr Hassi has already presented some of the green budget initiatives, and just as Mr Hassi said, we have always made our own alternative budget in those years when we have not been in the hands of the government, and so this year. This budget of ours is in full balance with what the government has done, and it shows that the allocation of resources is always value choices: The same money can be used to do different things depending on what you want to invest in and what you see as important for the development and future of our country. The Greens' contributions are in education, they are in reducing inequalities and they are in investing in the future, in combating climate change and in nature conservation, to sum up. Just as Mr Hassi has already opened these up, so we have really big investments in education, from the very beginning to the end at different levels, starting with early childhood education and reaching both comprehensive school, vocational schools, universities and universities of applied sciences as well as research. We have also taken a budget initiative to increase student support, because it is important for students to be able to concentrate fully on studies and thus shorten the duration of studies, which is also something that the government has very much raised, but at the same time cut back on, for example, student support. The amounts we put into education are about half a billion. Then we have a number of initiatives related to this kind of infrastructure package. That is where these mold schools and indoor air - problem schools are one part. We want them to be fixed, because it is vital for both those working there and the students that they are all able to work and study in healthy areas, and we also know that the costs of the illness will be high at a later stage. That is why it is extremely important that we get our schools and other buildings in order. It is gratifying to hear that attention has been paid to this issue by several groups. We also want to invest in renewable energy. We have also made new kinds of openings and we are putting money into accelerating the investments in biogas in farms, as well as the introduction of solar panels in housing companies, and also, for example, to accelerate the charging infrastructure for electric cars. We need such small concrete measures, which in practice will get us out of words to do things in such a way that we can get to renewable energy and make an energy renovation based on fossil energies: get rid of them and look to the future. Our infrastructure package also involves money for railway projects. Tax policy is also quite different from the government's tax policy in that we want tax policy to specifically combat inequality. That is why we have a great deal of money there to increase the basic deduction of municipal tax, which means that the most low-income people, i.e. those who do not receive wages but live, for example, on pensions or various benefits, will then be less taxed. We would not be doing income tax reductions with the same open hands as the government is doing, but, above all, we would target low incomes. On the tax side, however, we are prepared to tighten the tax on dividends, and we would also withdraw this reduction in inheritance tax, which the government is doing. And just as Mr Hassi has already said, the sugar tax is something we would introduce and then we would cut environmentally harmful subsidies fairly, as well as inefficient business subsidies. As a new one, we would like to introduce a mining tax, for example, and then these inefficient energy tax refunds would be abolished — it is talking about more than 200 million, and that is a very significant sum when we know that, according to VATT's studies, these are not even necessary for these companies themselves. We often talk in this Chamber about the fact that, during this great refugee crisis, we should be able to help people there in their countries of origin, but at the same time development cooperation has been cut. We'd do it differently. We would invest in development cooperation, and we would also like to increase the quota of refugees so that we can directly take those who need help and not by having to make a dangerous journey across Europe. On the other hand, we have a situation where there are asylum seekers here who certainly do not need that help, but if we took more people directly through the refugee quota, then we would also be able to ensure that these places come to those who need it. We would also like to add money to Migri to ensure and speed up the quality of the asylum process, so that it is as smooth as possible and above all of high quality. Then just a few small withdrawals from our budget initiatives: we would like to invest more in wood construction. Similarly, there we have additional contributions to theatres, orchestras and museums — and also to shelters, even though the current government is allocating money to them, but we know that the need is much greater than what has been done in Finland and what these additional funds can do, and that is why we would speed up this development by putting a little more money in it. But in this way, quickly telling us about this comprehensive package of budget initiatives that the Greens Group has tabled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u233	Mr President! In my second speech on the budget initiative, I will address the initiatives that I have taken personally. There is much to be done for the well-being of Finns. I have drawn up budget initiatives on a number of issues that are important to me. There would have been a need for congestion, but this year I took initiatives to promote child protection, the rehabilitation of front veterans, the development of friends of veterans, the improvement of the transport network, animal protection and support for the exercise of deprived children and young people. It is quite clear that the government should act to improve the welfare of veterans immediately, because there is no longer any time for procrastination. The average age of veterans is 92.5 years. In my budget initiative, I propose an increase of EUR 1 million in the development of guidance services for the rehabilitation of veterans. As a result of the high average age of veterans, there is a great need for various health and assistance services. One practical problem with helping veterans is their positioning. There are a lot of front veterans living in Finland who are entitled to various services but do not use them. It is therefore important to locate and guide veterans in need of assistance and to advise them on how to apply for services. This type of guidance services should be further developed in order to ensure that as many front veterans as possible receive the services they deserve. In addition, I propose an increase of EUR 250000 in the promotion of Veterans' friend activities. Unfortunately, as loneliness is a common problem for both front veterans and many other elderly people, there are friends in various parts of Finland, but it runs on a voluntary basis. This valuable activity is organised by a wide range of organisations. In Varsinais-Suomi, for example, difficulties have been encountered in finding volunteers for friendly activities. Resources, i.e. an initiative for EUR 50,000, have also been prepared for the Association for Animal Welfare in Turku. In Western society, not only people but also the development of animal welfare and rights must be encouraged. The Association for Animal Protection in Turku is the oldest animal welfare association in Finland, and it does valuable work for animals in Varsinais-Suomi. Increasing and developing activities will require more financial resources, and I will draw up a budget initiative, precisely to support the operation of the Turku Animal Welfare Association, which will amount to EUR 50000. The Great Postitie is an important and traditional route from Turku to Åland. In addition to the use of local residents, the Postitie has plenty of transit traffic. Various services along the road and the significant history of Postitie also attract tourists. In addition, many events taking place in the region will significantly increase the use of the road. The condition of the post office is unfortunately weak in some places. For example, the large unpaved section of the road between lustful and Skysalo is in a worrying condition. On a bumpy road, a lot of people have even broken down their cars. That is why I decided to launch a budget initiative in which I propose EUR 500000 for the rehabilitation of the Posti Road between Himoinen and Heavenly. I propose an increase of EUR 300000 in order to build underpass for Kaukurintie in Perniö and to implement the associated light traffic arrangements. The project is justified from the point of view of road safety. There is a particularly large number of schoolchildren on the route, and traffic volumes have increased as a result of construction. The road is also used by heavy traffic. Mr President! All these budget initiatives would be good progress on their way through. Older people, pensioners, veterans, children, animals and road safety are all extremely important themes on which the government should also invest a lot more than my budget initiatives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u234	Mr President! I myself will present some of the draft budgets that I have tabled myself very briefly. I tabled budget proposals to increase training for entrepreneurship, among other things. I think it is important that, at the latest in high school, students have the opportunity to become familiar with entrepreneurship. Ylöjärvi High School has, among other things, an entrepreneurial-based line and has gained very good experiences in the employment of upper secondary school students and in the creation of businesses. I hope that this approach will spread to other parts of the country. I also hope that the State will allocate a small amount of money to promote industrial policy, in particular for the development of cost-effective business advice. I also took a budget initiative to increase road safety to build a light transport corridor in Mutala. Then there is one more thing I would like to mention in particular. Last year, in the Committee on Finance, the Finns of Finland still negotiated an additional million euros for organisations in need of food aid. Food aid and bread lines are the last resort for many people to get the necessary food. For many, it is even something we are not happy to talk about, but we still have to go there to stay alive. We are no longer in the government, but I then took a similar initiative this year to add EUR 1 million to the funding of organisations providing bread line subsidies, and I hope that the government parties will take this into account in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-26-ps-111.u235	Mr President! I was thinking of speaking briefly about supporting civic activity, which is extremely important both from the point of view of our society as a whole and from the point of view of the individual people who are active in various organisations or who are involved in free cultural work. This is what we are about to make small sums of money, and in fact, as we all know, in supporting voluntary work and organisation, that money will come back many times, and that is why it is extremely wise to invest even small sums of money in it, because we know that their impact will be many times greater. We ourselves, the Green Group, have tabled budget initiatives to support environmental organisations, EUR 300000, EUR 400000 for organisations promoting peace and global education and EUR 200,000 for the League of Human Rights and EUR 1 million for free cultural work. And, on the whole, of this sum of less than 2 million, we know that its multiplier effects are extremely high, and I would hope that this aspect will always come up when we think about where to invest and what to get. Support for civic activities is, of course, something in which the euro is multiplying, and it is certainly worth investing in.
