ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Let's move on to the conversation. First of all, Mr Kalmari, and I would ask the rest of the Chamber to be quiet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u2	Madam President! In this time, public food supplies should speak more than many other things. It is grotesque that through the hornet, or through our restaurants, for example, decomposed meat from Brazil has ended up in the mouth of many consumers — or at least it has had the opportunity to end up in the mouth of many consumers, since meat imported into Europe is an animal product in the internal market and is not really controlled in any way, and we in restaurants can't even know the origin of the meat. That's why I'm appealing to this group, too, that now that the municipal elections are approaching, [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u3	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is therefore a question of aid for school milk and support for the use of fruit and vegetables and the introduction of food for schoolchildren. Milk is an important part of food for children, especially in terms of bone and growth, and the fruits are, of course, better than sweets. But perhaps there is also reason to get a little serious about this food issue in general. Are you sure that food is clean, for example, from large central kitchens to cooking plates, and must this food chain be transparent and traced? In other words, alongside healthy food, it is also worth considering whether the food is also clean. After all, last Friday, the world spread the burning meat from Brazil when the major Brazilian meat producers were suspected of bringing corruption, corruption, rotten meat with rotten meat and salmonella to the world, and Brazil's largest meat companies BRF and JBS were also subject to this investigation in the Weak Meat Police Mission. The authorities in Brazil are therefore suspected of overlooking the export of contaminated and even salmonella-containing meat. In total, the police raided 21 meat production plants in Brazil, and Brazil last year exported 12 billion dollars of beef and broiler meat to over 150 countries, including the EU and also Finland. Mr President! Already 30 countries have banned or banned meat imports from Brazil. We also have to get assurances in Finland that if meat is imported from Brazil to Finland and if it is served here in restaurants or for schoolchildren, what this is all about, these products are guaranteed to be safe. Fortunately, the EU Commission has already requested measures from Brazil and also stopped these imports, and Brazil has responded by stopping imports from a total of 21 entities under investigation. In Finland, among other things, we have the selections of the S-chain in Brazilian beef inside and outside fillet, and I understand that the chain has already begun to investigate traceability and whether it is possible to have this dirty food contaminated by corruption. For years, then, Brazilian meat producers have bribed their own authorities and even local politicians so that they did not interfere in exporting this rotten food and salmonella-containing meat abroad. Brazilian chicken meat is also used in many restaurants in Finland, and in time Fazer also used it, but fortunately, for example, choices have now been made for Finnish food and moved to Finnish meat. At least that will avoid such suspicions. I personally would like to see this case in Brazil at the latest wake us up to demand also school food, transparent, unambiguous labelling of the origin of food for restaurant food. In my opinion, children have a right to know where their food comes from, and if it is not yet of interest to their children, it certainly will be of interest to their parents, to what kind of milk, to what kind of meat, to what other products are served at school. I personally hope that our Minister for Agriculture, Kimmo Tiilikainen, who is known to be hardworking and productive, will take the next step in this food labelling work, which has now taken big steps forward this season and will take them right here in the near future. The next step, in my opinion, is that restaurant food should also be labelled with origin, because this Brazilian food corruption, the spread of rotten and salmonella food to the world, is an example in which food labelling should also be on the menus. Mr President! Of course, the surest guarantee is when you make your own choices, i.e. you can most certainly make sure that the food is good, Finnish and clean, directly traceable to the farm and, in general, something that you know exactly what the animals have been fed to or under what conditions the plants have been allowed to grow. Of course, that is the surest thing, but when we cannot close our borders permanently at least so that there is no foreign meat and food production, then it is right and reasonable that children, restaurant customers, workplace fooders should be informed of where the food comes from. It is unforgivable if such rotten food, contaminated by corruption, were to fall, for example, from our children's broilers or from any of their favorite foods, and we cannot, unfortunately, rule that out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u4	Mr President! The government's proposal seeks to change the school milk subsidy that was a couple of decades ago. The purpose of the aid has been to ensure the use of milk and buttermilk in schools and day care, and this is all well and good because these beverages are much healthier and better than sugary drinks. Around 90 per cent of children in day care and school have been covered by the aid, and the proposal is increasing the support for school fruit, which has not previously been used in Finland, and I think this is a good increase. In particular, as the use of liquid milk products has decreased in recent years, school milk aid and school fruit aid are examples of forms of aid whose existence is highly justified. The purpose of these forms of support is to promote healthy eating habits, especially among children and young people, and, as we know, it is best to learn those habits in childhood, so that they continue at a later stage. I would like those responsible for school procurement to choose, as far as possible, domestic products within this form of support. Just as previous speakers have already said, recent events show that Finnish food is safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u5	Mr President! This amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Agricultural Markets has an important role to play in making it easier to use fruit and also domestic vegetables and dairy products in public procurement. This will bring healthier foods through support to schools and day care centres, and will indeed help to achieve food education in this respect. This case of salmonella in Brazil is a serious example of how a large food business makes irresponsibly money, regardless of the consequences for the consumer. I would say that not only good EU food, but above all it is also an opportunity to defend Finnish local food. After all, there is a trend in the world that restaurants, for example, even tell us which farm this food comes from, which means that people already know how to demand it, and we also need to demand good domestic food. In this respect, this legislative change is very important in order to support healthy food for children and young people in public procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u6	Madam President! This government proposal extends this much-used school milk aid to the vegetable and fruit side, and it is a very good thing that the European Union has paid attention to this and that a financial contribution is also available to this end. This is a positive thing. But at the promised time of food safety, it is courageous to say — today, when this Brazilian meat case has been revealed, where a worthless product has apparently been marketed in Europe with a great deal of determination and yet to cover up the trail that the consumer will not only notice what is coming out of it — that this is quite clearly something that the European Union and Finland must deal with in order to get home-based labelling for domestic food in this country. And the other thing is that when food is brought here from South America, for example, there is almost no inhibition of these various hormones and antibiotics. I remember when we visited the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on a trip to Argentina, that there was a large department store with shelves, a huge number of different growth hormones and antibiotics, and each farm assured us that such substances would not be used there. It occurred to me, when I saw the places myself, that these products were apparently displayed on the shelf of the store, because they were said to be used for nothing. It must have been an agricultural exhibition when they were on the shelf in the local K-Market, which was a huge hall. It is a good thing that the European Union is paying attention to healthy food habits, but I hope that, when we pay attention to these, we can genuinely achieve the situation in this country that domestic, clean, natural food has a home-based label, an unambiguous label, and that such foreign production also has the relevant labelling.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u7	I would ask the representatives to move these other debates outside the Chamber when it seems that there are many speakers here at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u8	Mr President! I am pleased that so many speeches supported the follow-up to the declaration of origin, particularly in restaurants. I strongly believe that this long-term demand from the local food club will move forward when I feel that the minister has taken up this issue. After all, the compulsory origin marking in meat is beginning to come into force next autumn, and hopefully it can be smartly labelled with the swan flag, which has been used today. The strengths of Finnish meat are inconceivable. In Finland, the pig’s pig’s pig is not reduced, and we do not use antibiotics to promote growth, but they are used only in the treatment of diseases. In fact, this use of antibiotics to promote growth is one of the reasons why meat is produced under very poor conditions, and one reason why it is then more likely to spoil the meat. After all, meat has also been imported into Europe, which is chlorine-washed because it is then preserved for longer when it is treated in this way, so that bacteria die off the surface. Many speakers were also pleased that this support has now been directed towards the vegetable side. I am also pleased about that, but I would like to emphasise that we must deal with this issue in such a way that it does not interfere with our vegetable market and that it is targeted specifically at the beginning of the season. I would also like to add that, when organic products have often been criticised, we have a lot of arable land but no products.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u9	Congressman Squirrel, would you like to proceed from the front? — No, you don't. — Mr Eestilä is next.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u10	Madam President! This government proposal is good because it aims to ensure that young people start eating healthyly and in a variety of ways already in school, and of course there is still the promotion of physical activity. They are not progressing, as is known, but this is a step in the right direction and a balanced diet. As far as this Brazilian muscle candal is concerned, public procurement and the consideration of local food become even more important, and that is why this government has now amended the procurement law so that procurement can be divided into smaller parts, allowing smaller producers to participate in these competitions and, at the same time, they can plan and, together with the subscriber, consider the criteria that can be met. But with one thing in mind: Finland cannot close the borders, and we cannot go into isolation. And the other thing is that the procurement law should not be misunderstood by municipalities either, because there is a ban on splitting up, that procurement cannot be avoided in such a way that the procurement is split into lots.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u11	Mr President! This exposure to the importation of contaminated meat from Brazil was very hard and, on the other hand, also important. It tells us not to be naive with regard to imported foods, to think that when there is a stamp on the papers it is enough. I believe that the European Union must be firm and firm here, and it is not enough simply to explain why this has happened, but also to call for measures, sanctions insofar as, if imports continue, it cannot act in this way, given that there is corruption behind it, which is not easy to eradicate. Knowing how Finnish and EU food exports are subject to harsh conditions, we must be firm in this respect. It is good that the value of domestic food is, hopefully, growing from this point of view. It is the surest guarantee that the Finns will receive clean, healthy food, and that is why the generalisation and creation of these different designations of origin — including restaurant food and food from the kitchens — is essential as part of these overall measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u12	Mr President! The objective set by the EU for this system, the promotion of healthy eating habits, is very much to be welcomed, and now we have one part of it under discussion. The payment of aid to school milk and fruit is a good step towards achieving this objective. Of course, I hope and assume and work to ensure that domestic milk in schools is available without this support, at times when it is not possible to obtain aid. I welcome the fact that, in the form presented, the aid can be strongly targeted to be used in accordance with crop season thinking, for example in the autumn at the time of the best harvest season. This will make the best use of it for the domestic food chain and local economies. For example, support for berries and fruit can be used to organise a special local food day, for example in schools and day-care centres. I therefore encourage all municipalities to take advantage of these opportunities, to rely on local, domestic strengths and to exploit the potential of this support to provide healthy, clean domestic food to schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u13	Madam President! It is easy to agree with Mrs Viljanen's views on this government proposal. Indeed, the quality and ethics of food are important to us. At EU level, it is now possible to carry out an inspection of food imported from EU countries. I draw attention to the fact that it is based on random sampling and risk checks, it can never be comprehensive, so there is always a risk if you buy food in an EU country. On the other hand, when imported from outside the EU, we have to rely on customs controls, and that too is not comprehensive. Therefore, the only and correct conclusion that has been drawn in this debate is that we should, both in relation to this bill and beyond, favour Finnish food, and this message should now be made more widely available. On the other hand, when we do so within the framework of international regulations, I believe that the purity of Finnish food also offers us increased export opportunities, and that is obviously very important in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u14	Madam President! Good speeches about the fact that the government's proposal must definitely be supported and taken together in the spirit of Finnish parliamentaryism. Representatives Viljanen and Kalmari made good use of it for seasonal products. In fact, we are lucky that we have schools starting in the autumn and we have harvests being harvested and are at their best just in the autumn, both in terms of vegetables and in terms of domestic fruit. These two together make it possible to have a really good chain of public procurement, so that when it focuses on seasons, it is possible to do so profitably for producers and thus to provide us with good service. I am sure that in this Parliament the Members of Parliament will know what Mrs Myllykoski thinks about Brazilian meat, when it was now put on the table for everyone to share that what the Parliament should be asking. So here I hope that Chief Husu-Kallio very vigorously... From here I would like to say hello now to this control of EU borders, that once we get some products inside the borders, they are internal market products here. When we talk a lot about how Evira has acted — and I am sure that it will be heard in that committee, hopefully already this week — it is now important to focus on the integrity of the controls on food coming to the EU as a whole, because now we just do not know what has happened. As far as I am concerned — I agree with Mr Eestilä —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u15	Mr President! Yesterday, at home, we put reindeer jerky in salt and in the next few days we dried up, and then we thought about what work we should do, so that we could get this domestic food on a completely different scale than it is at the moment. We still have too much food imported from abroad. This government proposal is good for school food to be at least domestic and for these dairy products and others what is in that proposal. This is a good start, but we need to think about a lot of new measures, how we are going to move these things forward too, other similar funding, stunts. The role and task of all of us is to work and not just talk about this. Fish is a real problem in Finland because only one fifth of fish eaten in Finland is Finnish. The fish in school is almost all foreign because we do not have much of such a mass-scale fish product. We would have a lot of work to do in order to get domestic fish — we are talking about junk fish, but it is, in practice, a fish that we have very much — to get production moving properly, so that we can get the schoolchildren and all the other fish on the table properly. Another such thing is that we have large quantities of natural products in forests with poor use. We have huge quantities of berries and mushrooms, different plants that we could make very much more available in our own countries and which would be healthy products for all of us to use. Then one more thank you: this The Eating together campaign is really good. Involved in all of these Let's have dinner together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u16	Madam President! This aid for school milk and fruit has expanded to a very good debate on domestic food, food production, respect for it and what could be done about it. Among other things, the use of seasons was mentioned here. In this context, I can’t help but point out that my own municipality Kiuruvesi was rewarded in the framework of the Finnish Union for being a particularly good purchasing expert and for being able to make public procurements so that local products, organic products, Finnish raw materials are visible and realised in the procurements. In Kiuruvesi in particular, it has been translated into a state of will that we want to have a keeper who lives in agriculture, to support local entrepreneurs and to implement healthy food in the mouths of children and the elderly. This is not a very small matter, Mr President. In 2015, 424 million meals were served in Finnish restaurants, cafés, bars and hotels, and 383 million meals were served on the public side in hospitals, educational institutions, day care centres, nursing homes. If these meals consisted of at least a few ten per cent more domestic raw materials, one can only imagine what it would mean for Finnish food production. The keys are in our hands — we have a revised procurement law. That's a skill I need to take. I have hoped that my own municipality Kiuruvesi would produce that knowledge and tell others how it can be done in Finland without new legislation, only by emphasising and deciding that this is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u19	Madam President! It is an excellent thing for young people to be taught how to enjoy them when they are young — what they learn when they are young, when they are old. So the plate model has talked about it, and the old plate model we have works, that there is an appropriate amount of heavy but also meat products. Indeed, this renewed public procurement law also allows for more negotiations with heavy-duty producers, even in groups, and especially for these seasonal products to be taken into account. It also provides an opportunity to look at environmental issues, employment issues and innovation. In other words, it is also a starting point for municipalities and public operators to take a strong view of this new procurement law, to use it with the staff and with these purchasers, and equally so that politicians and future councillors have a strong role to play in looking after the way in which their own products and products from the region are used. This milk aid also applies to organic products, and it is an excellent thing that organic production can also be given a greater basis through public procurement. I myself have been an organic producer, and especially as a strawberry farmer, and where — in the fruit, vegetable line, berries — tastes that organic, i.e. those liquids and nutrients come directly from the soil to those products. And you can see the difference if there are highly fertilized products, as are strawberries from abroad, for example: they taste like these additives, plant protection products and so forth. But it is hoped that with these two measures, which are on the table here, we will get healthier food for schools and that young people will also learn to use more heaviness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u20	Madam Speaker! This government proposal on the organisation of the market in agricultural products is good and worthy of support. The fact that we, especially schoolchildren, our children and young people, become seasonal products, becomes Finnish products, becomes more fruit and vegetables is a very good thing. Usually it's important that we know where the food really comes from. We also have far too much Finnish washing in food, and this is not fair. It is not fair to anyone, least to the consumer, who does not necessarily know where his food comes from. This has taught us a good lesson now with this Brazilian meat market, with the muscle candal, that what all of this means with the most ruthless of all. This, if anything, is at its worst power production, which is not Finnish production. It is therefore a good thing that it is a Government decision in principle that all public food procurement by the state should follow instructions that the products that are acquired meet the criteria for Finnish production, that is extremely important. Here we have a good feeling, ladies and gentlemen, when the municipal elections come: Let's do it all the same in every municipality of Finland, every mass meal and demand that public restaurant services also do this. It is also very important for the functioning of the Finnish food chain, from the point of view of fairness, and as markets become fairer, common rules for the common market, the Finnish primary producer will also be able to cope. President! Next Thursday, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will receive a report on this Brazilian muscle candal. We want to know what has happened, what has been done, what is the role of the European Union, what is the role of the Finnish authorities, how we are going to ensure that things like this do not happen again. That is why it is essential that a good report is now also made and that measures be taken to reform what we have to do with labelling of origin and others, so that such things are not possible in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u21	Mr President! I believe that Mrs Myllykoski raised a very important point: what we should do in the EU, that this situation could not happen again. As I said in my opening remarks, we have internal market regulations that, if meat comes to Romania from Brazil, it will then be in the internal market. We should therefore insist that the EU retains this limit in all respects and that the rules of the game are the same throughout the EU. We know how accurate food control is when it comes to our own small and large operators, and it is really wrong if dogs do not bark at us, no matter what kind of chilling product comes to Europe. I would like to remind this group of people of the Thursday event that the local food club is organising. It's about public food supplies. Once again, we will review how public food procurement can be competitive in such a way that it can meet the criteria of the procurement law. From there you will have ready-made council initiatives to make sustainable food purchases, because everything is based on the fact that the council has given back to the food suppliers, and then the buyers will be able to operate and compete in those kitchens in such a way that the result will be sustainable food. As Mr Pirttilahti mentioned, the procurement legislation now provides a good opportunity for the Government of Kimmo Tiilikainen to decide on the principle of public food procurement in the state, but it is now also a good opportunity for municipalities to do the same in the municipalities. After all, we cannot patronise a municipality, they have the right to self-determination, but, for example, an open negotiation procedure is a very important means of such procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u22	Madam President! To get back to the matter: it is very important now that, when the domestic food is, overall, GM-free, we have less plant protection products even for the quantities produced or per hectare, but health is now key here. In my opinion, the right conclusions have been drawn in the EU, and right now is the moment not to drown this sort of Brazilian meat, but to talk about the fact that we now have the opportunity to bring more, more efficient and better vegetables to schools, and that is important. Our school meals have focused on it and sometimes on a little argument about whether there should be one vegetarian day a week, but more importantly now it is an opportunity for a wide-ranging debate on whether there would always be, every day, also a vegetable option. This is now possible for this season, so that health can be faced with the fact that, without doubt, it will be possible for domestic local food producers to make communities in such a way that more farmers can guarantee it, for example, in this regional reform. I would therefore urge that, while perhaps doing these things in the municipalities, we now extend this message to that social and regional reform so that the region can concentrate on making progress in this healthy food culture. This is one step towards making all this possible, because health must also be at the forefront of this regional reform and the war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u23	Madam President! Important contributions have been made on this important issue. Instead of the EU's previous varying school milk activities, it is good that there is now a more uniform legal framework for school milk and fruit and vegetables. And we must remember that when we talk about fruits internationally and in the EU, they also include our valuable domestic berries. School meals are indeed, as has been said here, very important for the health and well-being of children, both now and in the future. I asked to speak in order to highlight the provision in Article 33 of this draft law that provision should be made in a regulation on products eligible for school distribution aid to take into account nutrition recommendations. So I hope that this will be based on the recommendations of the State Nutrition Council — the Joint Advisory Board of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, whose recommendations will be based on extensive international research and Nordic recommendations. For the health of schoolchildren, it is important that the diet is based on strong, researched data.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u24	Mr President! With reference to the above debate on contaminated Brazilian meat, one suspicion of food safety is too much. We must do everything in our power to ensure that Finnish consumers can enjoy their food without worrying about its safety. The noise of contaminated Brazilian meat is regrettable. At the same time, it is another indication that at the moment the most secure security you can obtain for the safety of your food is its homeness. Therefore, to know what you buy, offer or eat, it is necessary to ensure the homeliness of food. For this to be possible, it is very important that consumers always have indisputable information on the origin of food. Origin must be easily identified for both food raw materials and processed products. It is therefore very good that Mr Tiilikainen has taken up the initiative of three representatives from the centre to extend the labelling of food to processed meat and milk — that is, processed products for which foreign meat is largely used in Finland. Mr President! This unfortunate commotion about foreign meat also shows that quality costs money, and even in food we cannot assume that the world's cleanest Finnish food is also the cheapest food in the world. Here again, you cannot get a Mercedes for Mosse's price.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u25	Mr President! You can very much agree with the conclusions of the previous speaker, and this revelation of Brazilian contaminated meat is probably just the tip of the iceberg. It tells us that unfortunately not all the authorities in the countries can be trusted, and when that trust is lacking, that is what is worrying. As I said earlier, it is not enough that stamps exist when they cannot be trusted. That is why this is a very serious matter for the European Union as a whole, in the way in which it is possible to act in such a way that pressure is put, at least for its own part, on this kind of activity not to continue. There may still be many other countries in which the same thing is done. I very much welcome the fact that, in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, chaired by Mr Leppa, has taken this issue very seriously, because the feedback from meat producers has been very worrying. They have said that they act entirely ethically and in accordance with all the laws and regulations of the legislation and produce clean, domestic food, and then they come here to the same market, trample prices and suggest that the consumer can, frankly, be fooled. In this respect, the unified position of this Parliament, which is now coming, I understand, is also a very important message for our meat producers and farmers on a wider scale. And that is also a message for all of us that we need to ensure that domestic production is profitable and that we have the prerequisites for our self-sufficiency in the main products to be safeguarded in the future. It also requires that national selfishness to care for security of supply and the future, clean food. The importance of trade is being emphasised, and I hope that trade will also be able to pull itself together and take a stronger line in favour of domesticism, although it does not always seem to be so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u26	Madam President! I share Mrs Viljanen's views and say once again that we Finns do not need Brazilian meat when we have meat of the kind of Mercedes behind us. There could probably be a long discussion about that price level — I don't think Finns even have to pay for good, high-quality Finnish meat by Mercedes. For there are six good reasons why you should choose food in Finland: the Finnish food industry employs over 300,000 people. Animal welfare is in good shape here in Finland. Consumers usually know pretty well where food comes from, how it is produced. Then we also take responsibility for climate change. And as has been said in many speeches, we are preparing clean food, the purest food that can be done in the world, because we use the least antibiotics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u27	Mr President! It is important that municipalities promote domestic local food in their procurements, including by highlighting food safety, health and short journeys, so that we can get the best for our children and the elderly. Espoo, my home town, has informed me that no Brazilian meat is used in Espoo. I warmly support the fact that labelling of food's origin is clearly visible. But I would like to point out that the representative: Myllykoski raised an important point: health and also vegetarian food. Indeed, for climate reasons, it should be increased in domestic procurement. Vegetarian day would be a very durable way of doing this. For example, the situation in Espoo is that we do not have a vegetarian day in schools, but there is a vegetarian choice for those who wish it. This means that if you have chosen the meat option, you can never even taste the vegetable option, even if you want it that way. Therefore, it would make sense to get children used to new, good flavors — Härkis, Shrinkle Oats — and to allow everyone one vegetarian day a week. Then, as far as animal welfare and rights are concerned, the Animal Welfare Act needs to be reformed in order to provide more space for productive animals to move around and be able to behave in a species-like way, and organic production also guarantees better conditions for animals. That, of course, we still have things to improve in our own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u28	Mr President! Indeed, it is high time to raise the value of Finnish food and the whole food culture. Food comes too close — many do not notice its quality and its being the cleanest in the world. But how could that be promoted? I think that our food policy report tells us quite a bit that food education, food and nutrition and sustainable development should be included more strongly in education, even in early childhood education, in primary school and upper secondary school subjects, in teacher education and in secondary vocational training and in educational practice. I am also of the opinion that support will be given to consumer knowledge, which has also been discussed in this debate, through various campaigns to increase food and purchasing awareness, and not only will the appreciation of food be enhanced, but also the appreciation of domestic household water will be understood, branded and properly promoted. It'll be fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u29	Mr President! I have been following this debate on purpose until the end of this period, and it is really great that there has been this unity of opinion on behalf of domestic food. This will continue with the opinion of Parliament, which was discussed during the debate on the interim question in the summer. I also agree with Mrs Myllykoski and Mr Eestilä that we cannot close the borders, but that food and possibly meat will continue to be produced here. This is important because we are being taken away from us, and this opening up of Atria to exports of pork to China is a great thing, including HK chickens to Japan, that we must not forget. In fact, this which Mr Paloniemi quoted from the food policy report: I believe that this food policy report, which we have before us in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, will now find a whole new setting in its deliberations. This crisis in the meat of Brasi-lia will clearly leave its mark on our administration and our way of thinking, and that is why it has been a good thing to move the food policy report further into the spring. With regard to this procurement procedure, the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia, which has 200,000 inhabitants, decided — i.e. with regard to procurement by the government — that we only obtain foodstuffs that meet the criteria for Finnish production. Finally, with regard to this government proposal, in addition to a good domestic steak, one third of good domestic vegetables are always suitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u30	Mr President! It is important that this debate takes place, albeit perhaps a little past that government's proposal. Of course, it is important to increase the use of vegetables and berries in school meals and thus also to teach children to use the foods we are close to. This also means that local food is provided for schools. There has been talk of food safety — an important part of the safety of the entire food chain — and also of whether food should be imported and exported from Finland. Indeed, Finland is an EU internal market area. Food safety is very important in EU legislation. That is what we have seen, for example, in these free trade negotiations, where it has been extremely important that European food is safe and that no food other than safe food is brought here through trade agreements. Finland must also influence the European Union's food safety legislation, bring into it those things that are important to us, so that we can also export our own food — I am thinking of mushrooms in forests, berries. At the moment, it seems that Sweden, our neighbour, is the one who brands blueberry, and hopefully not the brand now, because hopefully it is still a Finnish product. But it is really important that we realise that we are also in the European Union's internal market, that we also get good food from it, but we need to export our own food more and more processed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u31	Madam President! The section president, Mr Wallin, raised the issue of the food policy report, and I would like to pick up one fact from it, and it concerns Finnish water. Indeed, more bottled water is imported into Finland than we export bottled water from Finland abroad. It seems quite incomprehensible because, as the report says, Finnish krana water in many municipalities, such as Helsinki, is better quality than bottled imported water. For example, I would like the Federation of Brewery, which has excellent lobbying machinery and excellent product development, to focus on this issue and to pay attention to the export efforts of domestic bottled water.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u32	Madam President! It is very important that this aid for school distribution is now simplified and that we in Finland also introduce this aid for school fruit alongside this aid for school milk that has already been used. When I was in the European Parliament, there was a debate on school milk aid and it was said that it was bureaucratic and rigid in its own way. It has indeed been important that this system has now been changed in such a way as to make it easier to use it and, in particular, that this school fruit payment should now be introduced by Finland, because this school fruit payment has in the past, I recall, also demanded a national contribution, and it has also been quite bureaucratic, and that is why Finland did not want to introduce it in the past. Now that these two forms of aid have been combined, this will certainly encourage and rationalise the introduction of this aid. It is also particularly good that there is a clear position here that local food and regional food production can be favoured. Let us hope that this is reflected in the procurements that are being made in schools. In that sense, it must be said that it is good that this form of aid has indeed been made more sensible there at EU level and has therefore become better used at national level. I recall just what was happening in the debate that, although you have always had a good objective, this was a very typical EU aid, that is, its use had been made so rigid and difficult that many Member States have also not used it. But it is good that improvements have been made, and it is particularly important that the diet of children and young people can be influenced in this way to change in a healthier direction. Hopefully, even in school, the right lessons can be learned on a healthy diet and thus reflected in one’s own nutrition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u33	Madam Speaker! It is good that the public health effects of our food were also raised in this debate. Whatever the quality of the food, it is also an extremely important source of health. There are crises in the world after the crisis on various issues, rising ones. The Finnish way of producing food is precisely one — extensive cooperation between the whole chain, reliable government activities and so on — that also supports public health work in this regard. It also opens up the other important point of view that has also been raised, and that is the possibility of export, which means that the food sector in our country will grow. There hasn't been a good view of it lately. Now one is opening up, and this is what we need to take. It has also been mentioned in the government's programme: EUR 500 million of our food balance, our crooked food balance, is being corrected, and that is what we have every chance of — that is clear. But it all comes from the fact that our production here is profitable. And there is no support for this arrangement in any way through the process of billing. Nor does it support the fact that animal welfare can be improved, it does not support the fact that environmental issues are better taken into account, it does not support the fact that we are trying to reduce food losses, not to mention the profitability. In other words, we also need to rethink with the whole chain how to deal with this issue so that all these good things that have come to light in this debate can be dealt with for our mutual benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u34	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u35	Mr President! Indeed, this amendment to the Road Traffic Act is specifically about the EU's amending directive. This requires automatic control of the weights of goods vehicles and mandatory exchange of information on the weights of containers and exchange baskets. The situation is that driving overweight endangers road safety and damages the surface and structure of the road. We taxpayers here in Finland also pay quite a lot of money for the fact that foreign transport also consumes our roads in addition to domestic traffic. There is indeed a desire to improve the control of weights and, among other things, there is an increase in the obligations of the carrier and the carrier to provide information on this weight of cargo. After all, there is an increase in cabotage within the EU, and many drivers may not even know how much goods they are wearing. As a result of the online trade, the traffic of vans is also increasing, even internationally, and the remote identification system for vehicle weights should be able to control weights. In this case, vehicles with a weight that may exceed the permissible may be separated from the traffic flow for inspection and thus not interfere with the traffic flow. This, of course, also helps the driver to prevent obesity — the driver does not necessarily know how much the containers weigh. This amending directive is also important for domestic truck transport, as this will reduce unfair competition with overloads. I am not saying that Finns would not drive too much at all, but this can, above all, prevent unfair competition from coming to Finland from other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u36	Madam President! Representative Alatalo brought up a single point here, and this is also a way of ensuring better legal protection for a Finnish driver who drives a paid job. At present, if you are caught a few times and there is another traffic offence, the Finnish driver will be driving a driving licence and will not, for his own reason, with this fault, receive earnings-related daily allowance from the time he is prevented from exercising his profession. I think it would be a good idea now to pay particular attention to this point and, on this point, to be able to bring the responsibility of the company now, when the driver, who is with its load and who has announced this when he sees through those tags that it is overloaded, declares that he does not agree to drive it — would have some protection as to how to proceed, because he is under the employer's directive and under the authority that he is now driving. This would now be particularly important to note in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u37	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u38	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! The proposal proposes that the provisions of the Law of the Sea relating to ship's logbooks be reformed and that provisions on accident and incident reporting be included. Digitalisation would be promoted by enabling ship's logbooks to be kept in electronic form. This is not a very big change, but it is very important because Finland is now the only country in the EU where it is not possible to use an electronic diary in shipping. That is why I am pleased that this bill is now here in Parliament. It is a good performance, and it is important for Finnish shipping.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u39	Mr President! It is therefore a question of information on the ship's logbooks and of making them digital, and that is an important step forward here. Let it be said that the IMO will also review these issues, that the changes will be made in this way. These amendments are proposed to the Law on Technical Safety and Safe Use of the Ship and to the Maritime Labour Contracts Act. The aim is indeed to promote digitalisation, and this is also intended to better control the transport of many foreign ships in Finland. The amendments are intended to enter into force as soon as possible and the entry into force of the amendments to the Annexes is then laid down by Government Decree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u40	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u41	Mr President! This is the sixth amendment to the Land Use and Building Act that this Parliament is considering. The committee's report is divided, but one thing on which the committee is unanimous is the need for a comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Law. This proposal addresses many of the details of the Land Use and Building Act, the main impact of which is estimated to be the proposed increase in the size of a large retail unit from 2000 to 4000 square metres, and the removal of the obligation to demonstrate the maximum size of large retail units in the area of the regional plan. In addition, the obligation to take account of the quality of trade when placing a large retail unit in a non-centred area is waived. Another key change in this is the change in the role of the Ely Centres for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment. It concerns both their advisory role and their appeal in the field of design. Both the negotiating role and the right of appeal shall be limited to matters and formulas relating to matters of national or regional importance or relating to the performance of the authority’s task in the State concerned. However, this impact will be short-term, as the whole of this regional government will be undermined in the establishment of regional government in the context of social welfare reform. Other, smaller changes are related to the importance of the general formula, rural construction, beaches and forestry areas and leisure-time settlements. The Government proposes that, where the general formula is manifestly obsolete, it may, for a legitimate reason, be drawn up in breach of this general formula. The committee notes, however, that it is necessary to ensure that the formula adapts to the overall formula and takes into account what the law says about the content requirements of the general formula. On the other hand, the use of the general formula as a basis for a building permit will be extended. In the past it has been possible in coastal areas and under certain conditions in areas where planning is needed. The use of the general formula is now being increased as a basis for granting a building permit for a building other than a residential building with a maximum of two dwellings. The committee notes that this provision cannot apply to an area where the need for land-use management requires the establishment of a plan for the station. However, the current condition, which states that the demarcation may only apply to a village area which is not subject to significant building pressure, is left out of the section. It also amends the regulations relating to the modification of the use of leisure dwellings, i.e. allowing the municipality's building order to designate areas where the conversion of leisure dwellings into permanent residence could be decided directly by means of a building permit. However, the committee stresses that it is not possible to compromise on the technical requirements for a permanent residence building. The committee also points out that permanent settlement means the obligation of the municipality to provide services and, therefore, planning is also a good thing to remember. The regulations on the permit for landscape work related to forest logging are amended. Currently, the requirement for landscape work permits in the coastal station planning areas is absolutely valid. It is amended to ensure that the requirement for a landscape permit is valid only in the areas of the coastal station plan if the formula so provides. In regions beginning with M, i.e. agricultural and forestry-intensive areas, which are outdoor areas at the same time, and then in an environment with specific environmental values, i.e. the MU and MY regions, this landscape permit can no longer be required in the formula. However, the committee notes that it is still possible in the general formula to impose restrictions on forest management, which, however, must have a clear basis and may only apply to limited, relatively small areas. The authorisation requirements for the installation of solar panels and collectors will be harmonised. This has been opposed by some experts in their opinions as an increase in permit requirements. However, the committee saw that this is a matter of harmonisation, which means that in future it will be necessary to have an operating licence for the installation of a solar panel or collector when it comes to the installation or construction of a panel or collector that has a significant impact on the city view or the environment. Mr President! As I mentioned, this report is divided. The report contains a rejection and also a clause which I myself have signed, and in my subsequent speech I will explain the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u42	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! President Hassi has successfully reviewed this amendment of the law. The amendment to the Land Use and Building Act under consideration is an example of why we need an overall reform of the Land Use and Building Act. The MRL is almost 20 years old and has been subject to a number of individual changes over the years, only six in this period. That is why we have been happy to welcome information from the Ministry of the Environment that the Ministry will start preparing for the overall reform. The aim is to gather a knowledge base that will provide the basis for the development of the principles on which the Land Use and Building Law will be revised. Personally, I would see that the principles must include that the Land Use and Building Act must respond to the needs of fast-growing urban areas, but the principles must definitely include supporting Finland's energy and climate policy, contrary to what this proposal before us today does. President! I would like to raise a few points and concerns. First, a change in the regulation of large units. This is the most significant change that this proposal entails, and the impact on the urban structure is, in my view, negative. As the size of trade increases and quality is no longer relevant, this change does weaken the ability of municipalities to manage a sound urban structure. It can also lead to centralisation in the karate of services with large units outside the centres. If, as a citizen of the city, I look at the question, I see that it can also have a negative impact on the services of the suburbs, as they also run away after large units and thus weaken the services of the suburbs. All of this contributes to increasing the need for motoring, which is contrary to our climate and other environmental objectives. I would see that the development of the trade sector can be supported without violating the community structure and without acting in violation of Finland's climate objectives. Another concern is the general formula based on the building permit. The fact that building permits could be granted on the basis of a mere general formula means that we are missing one essential stage of planning. The general formula is a general formula according to its name, and many things are not even being resolved in the general formula yet, but are being done at the station plan stage. I would see that this proposal can contribute to weakening the quality of spatial planning. The reason for this change has been the acceleration of the formula process. The acceleration of the formula process must be our common aim, but I think that the argument is lame at this point, because this new situation, in which the general formula gives you permission to build, certainly leads to differences of interpretation and therefore to complaints. In other words, at worst, increasing complaints can actually slow down the formula process, so that this change would go against the objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u45	Madam President! You can see here that there are strong differences between the parties as to whether you want to give people the freedom to live in rural areas as well or whether you do not want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u55	Mr President! Mr. Squid must have misunderstood me. He said in his speech that I would have insisted that everyone should pack up in a few cities to live in a tight way in each other's exhaust gases. I certainly did not present it, nor do I demand it. I am in favour of people's freedom to choose where they want to live. But the fact is that for us in Helsinki, for example, there is a huge change in the new population and the end is not visible. It happens for a lot of reasons: they come here for college, they come here for work, they come here for love. And as a Helsinkier, I say to you new Helsinkiers, welcome. We cannot demand and force people to live in a specific place. When we know that the capital region accounts for around 25% of the country's gross domestic product, what is the employment in this region, which is the state of the economy in this region, is important for Finland as a whole. We would not have to set the countryside against the city here. I believe that it is entirely possible to reform the Land Use and Construction Act in such a way that it serves both of them in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u56	These were more than one of the respondents. You can now sign up through that button. I ask you to do so, and everyone will be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u57	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal contains a number of different types of zoning and construction-related streamlining measures. They're very good. They improve the conditions for construction both in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas and in cities. When experts were consulted in the Committee on the Environment, it must be noted that the representative of the City of Helsinki, as an expert, also stated that this bill, the government proposal, is good and also helps Helsinki in planning. All in all, this is very good. This also gives more opportunities for municipal decision-makers in municipalities to make the decisions you can build and the buildings you can build. All in all, I am very much in favour of this. This government proposal also improves the use of leisure accommodation for permanent housing. That's very good. The installation and construction of solar panels and collectors will also be easier in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u58	Madam President! First of all, what the chairman of the committee rightly mentioned here is that this is the sixth time that the Land Use and Building Law has been amended during this parliamentary term. In committee, we heard the concerns of a number of experts not only of these changes that are being made here but also of the fact that this whole thing is becoming fragmented in such a way that no one will be able to keep up with it soon. It would have made more sense to do a comprehensive reform, to start preparing it, and not to go off again, to do the dismantling of different standards, which will then be a little bit of what you are going to do. We in the committee have had serious contributors to their concerns, and when the previous speaker here said, in his internally contradictory speech, that there must be more opportunities for municipalities, we have a statement from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which says that they are opposed to, for example, this major commercial unit because of the fact that local authorities are precisely deprived of control. Now try and figure out what kind of thing you're going to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u59	Madam President! I've been a municipal worker myself. I trust the county officials and their expertise. One thing that has risen here and will certainly rise to the debate is the right of appeal of the Ely Centres, which is now limited to national and regional issues. The goal is to make things smoother. We know that the complaints from the Ely Centres have been successful, i.e. they have not unduly complained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u62	Mr President! This amendment to the Land Use and Construction Act really came in need. I am grateful that this was brought through properly and in the right way. The fact that this has been in many pieces does not harm it, but means that we are doing this in a systematic manner in accordance with the Government Programme. According to the Government Programme, a lot of red tape has been dismantled, practically things have been moved forward. For example, this will make it easier for us to live in rural areas, because in the past there have been very many different kinds of regulations in Parliament which have aimed at making living in rural areas more difficult and more difficult. Now we have more and more confidence in the decision-making powers of the municipalities. Municipalities themselves can decide what it is like to live there in a small keeper and what it makes sense to build and influence things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u63	Mr President! Mr Huovinen has already said that this proposal on the most important issue, that is to say, the big business unit, takes power away from the municipalities, deprives the municipalities of the possibility of controlling the location of the large commercial units and also of the quality of trade. In its opinion, the Finnish Environment Agency states that this is likely to increase climate emissions, it takes services further away from where people live, and thus worsens local services. It is difficult to see how this would be about promoting the interests of rural people. I think the opposite is true of this government proposal. I would also like to point out that the Supreme Administrative Court, in its own opinion, stated that this proposal, when it comes to being implemented, should be increased by:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u64	Madam President! I am indeed amazed when it is being said on the part of the opposition that the world is now falling. And most of all, I wonder that now that the Land Use and Building Law is being changed in a direction where the decision-making power of rural municipalities genuinely determines where to be built — so that, for example, if an exemption is applied for, for example, to transform a summer cottage into a permanent residence, that is a very good thing: to get quickly and pointless complaints away — the demos and, in particular, the representatives of the Left Alliance are here in favour of concentrating everyone here in southern Finland. This is the most expensive option of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u67	Mr President! It is a little difficult to understand how that speech by Mr Hoskonen relates to this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u73	Madam President! I welcome this government proposal and especially this point where the municipality is allowed to decide, in the order of construction, on the areas where the free-time residence can then be converted into a year-round living permit, in accordance with the regulations, of course. But when there are committee members and the chairman and one thing is somewhat unclear to me, can you enlighten me: when the building order is, as I understand it, an subordinate document, it cannot pass the formula or over, so if this leisure residence is located in the planning area, then what happens in the municipality, is it still the right, through the construction order, to give those people the opportunity to turn this free-time residence into a year-round residence? This is a very simple question. I think I'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u74	Madam President! In particular, the change in the role of ely centres is one of the important elements of this legislative change. As I have already said, the municipality is the best unit to know what is advantageous in the municipality, where to grant building permits and where, for example, the organisation of municipal technology would be unreasonable if the customer cannot organise it himself. It is important that the role of the Ely Centres becomes consultative and will no longer guide the use of regions and the organisation of construction activities, unless it is a matter of national or regional importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u77	Värderade Talman! Mr Eestilä raised a good point: this is the wrong place to define this deviation from the construction order. Congressman Hoskonen said that this would reduce unnecessary complaints. In fact, on the basis of expert consultations, the situation is exactly the opposite. [of the Socialist Group : Yes, just!] But there are good things here in itself: it is good to facilitate the construction of the rural economy, and it is good to facilitate further construction, and there may be other good things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u80	Mr President! I think that Mr Kalmar's speech was very good and said a great deal about what this is all about. I understand that there are different opinions, and I am sure that there are issues here on which experts can also disagree, but, overall, the fact that we are liberalising construction and further construction makes sense to me, and also the fact that we are looking at the role of the Ely Centre. When Mr Modig pointed out here that 25% of GDP is produced in the capital region, we must remember that we need to look at a slightly wider area. If we look at the whole of Uusimaa, which is its working area, and even a little further away, then in the Uusimaa region the GDP per capita is the same as in the whole of Finland on average. We have many such areas — such as the Sea-Lap area, where some 60,000 people actually live and 7 % of the GDP of the whole kingdom are produced — so that this should not be seen with such a single eye, but there should also be no confrontation between cities and the countryside,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u83	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Salmon that I am also opposed to this confrontation between the countryside and the city, which, by the centre, is rising again and again in this Chamber. I would like to correct Mrs Torniainen's speech when she said that Helsinki as a whole was in favour of this change. As can be seen from the Helsinki opinion, the change in the large unit of commerce is seen as a risk and harmful to the community structure from the Helsinki point of view, as it violates a rational community structure, shrivels the city centre and increases the need for motoring. You can't build a growing city on growing private cars. If we do that, then the dystopia previously presented by Mr Kalmar will be realized. Soon we'll do nothing but be herrings in a jar and breathe each other's exhausts. I would like to say to Mr Hoskonen when you spoke about this millionaire I have not known: your central minister has just created a ten-year interest subsidy, which is a lottery win for these millionaire grynders, and its bill is paid by an ordinary tenant. To the centre as a whole, I would like to say that the vitality of rural areas and the fact that people can live in their own localities are certainly made up of many things: whether good, high-quality services are available there;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u84	Madam President! Under no circumstances should rural areas and urban settlements be contrasted; they complement each other and both are needed. It's a fact. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u85	Mr President! I think this proposal is a good one, and here is precisely the idea that construction is more liberal and indeed it is easier to build additional farm buildings and summer cottages in rural areas, but this also applies to renovations and accessibility projects in urban blocks. Now there is such a mistake in scale that a few percent is just construction in rural areas, and most of the gryndating takes place here in cities, that is to say, when we liberalise construction in rural areas, this is not going to bring down the world's climate, which is certainly where good construction is being done and ecologically.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u88	Madam President! The role of the Ely Centres, which has been raised here in the debate, and the fact that this proposal is actually taking away these opportunities for action in these areas, which Mr Alatalo has also mentioned. When it is so difficult for the representatives of the government parties to believe us from the opposition and our concerns, I now read a direct quote in the statement by Professor Juho Rajaniemi on town planning. He says: "These changes in the right of appeal of the Ely Centres, which the government is proposing, are the answer to a problem that does not exist." This is what he writes. For example, in the form of complaints, the Ely Centres account for only 4%, and complaints from Ely Centres go through a considerable number of times, i.e. around 80%, that is to say, the Ely Centres rarely complain and, as a general rule, about decisions that have been justified by administrative rights. This is an opportunity for the Ely Centres to take up the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u89	Madam President! With regard to the regulation of large commercial entities in the centre and outside the centre areas, I would draw attention to the fact that Finland is a very large country and we have different regions. It is necessary to highlight the region of south-eastern Finland, where border trade is very important, and even 4,000 square meters, which is now allowed for the store, are small on that scale. Of course, it would be great if these special conditions across Finland were taken into account extensively so that larger units could be built as appropriate. It should be noted that when these larger units are possibly built up, they are not made with the money of society, but in general by investors who put their own money on them and, in a way, bear the risk and their own money is responsible for whether or not they are profitable. Of course, there is also a need to ensure that urban areas and townspeople have access to shopping without excessive driving in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u90	Mr President! It is just as Mr Kopra said that special circumstances in different places must be taken into account, and I think that this is best done by giving the municipalities the power of decision in these matters. I do not quite understand the opposition's view that the municipalities, as it were, deliberately planning illegal patterns or deliberately taking services away from people. What is the basis for these claims? Do you think that municipal councillors and officials are now simple or malicious? Is this the message you want to send municipal candidates in future municipal elections that they are not trusted and their skills, competence and motives are being questioned?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u91	Mr President! When this climate of misunderstanding is deliberately being maintained here, let me say once again that, for example, on this big business issue, on which many speakers have already spoken, I said earlier: the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities opposes this, because this change is precisely depriving the municipalities of the opportunities to make the decisions that you are calling for here. We have not said here that the municipalities do not know how to make decisions, but we have appealed to what the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which is now still representing the municipalities, has said in the committee's expert consultation. These notes are worth reading and not expressing views here based on a pure belief in something.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u92	Madam Speaker! This land use and building law is good and necessary. It also recognizes that we have different areas, different needs and different attraction factors. In the city they are quite different from the countryside, and both are needed, both need building. Both have problems at the moment, perhaps slightly the other way around — at least to a certain extent, not too much to build in rural areas, but, on the contrary, far too little. We have all been involved in numerous debates in this Chamber, too, in the view that the vitality of rural areas should be taken care of. Construction is one of the most important things that can live and live there. I also believe that the municipalities want to provide services — not that this will in some way weaken the services of the new residents who come there, nor that summer homes will be changed to permanent ones, nor that we will bludgeon each other to death, as some fellow Member has said. Technology is progressing, the shape of our movement will change completely over the next decades. Now, with this construction, we are preparing for the fact that everywhere in Finland also
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u93	Representative Rehn-Kivi, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u94	Mr President! This proposal restricts and removes the right of appeal in projects of non-national importance or protection. I think it is very important that we have a public authority that supervises the planning activities of municipalities and also its legality and compliance with the objectives of the province. Unfortunately, local authorities often make rather short-sighted decisions when there is a rush to have someone in the municipality, and this does not help what, for example, the relocation of large shopping centres outside the central areas will do to these villages. It is important that we have this authority, and now that it is removed from the ely according to the proposal, this control will then remain with other operators, such as individuals. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u97	Madam President! Let us say once again that the amendment of the Land Use and Construction Act and the report of the Committee on the Environment are on the table. The amendment will implement measures to streamline the planning and building permits of the Government Programme. The aim of these changes is to reduce the regulation of planning and construction, to increase the opportunities for construction and to promote the operating conditions of the business community and the development of effective competition. In the meantime, it is good to note in the three working groups that the results of the negotiations are beginning to show. The result is generated, Finland will rise when the country has a functioning government. There was another one last season. Let me now turn to the most important points. According to the proposal, the use of the general formula as a basis for a building permit will be increased, as will the provisions on the specific conditions of the building permit in the area of design need be clarified. With reference to the above, the committee proposes to amend Article 137(2) by adding, in addition to the agricultural and forestry activities, a reference to its ancillary activity. Adjoining activity refers to a secondary activity in addition to agriculture and forestry, which is closely linked to it, such as activities relating to rural tourism, the horse economy or the circular economy. In addition, construction related to agriculture and forestry will be made more flexible. Station planning will be facilitated and made more flexible. The station plan is usually approved by the municipal council. However, the decision-making powers of the Board of Governors may be delegated to the municipal board or board in the Statute of the Board of Governors. Article 52 of the Government’s proposal This transfer facility will be extended to include The committee believes that, in principle, municipalities should strive for maximum transparency in planning. In the order of construction, the possibilities for changing the use of leisure dwellings are also increased — i.e. changing the use of leisure dwellings to permanent housing. Similarly, the order of construction can be changed. In the case of solar panels and collectors, an operating licence is in principle required only for the installation or construction of a solar panel or collector with a significant impact on the city view or the environment. Similarly, transferring the drilling of geothermal wells to the notification procedure would be advisable in all areas where the operating licence does not provide any added value. Mr President! With regard to retail regulation, the government has proposed in its proposal to increase the size limit of a large retail unit from 2000 to 4000 square metres. In the regional plan, the maximum size of retail trade must in future only be allocated outside the central area. It is proposed that the steering role for the planning and construction of the regional use of the municipalities of the Centres for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment be removed and that the right to appeal be limited to matters of national and regional importance. The number of formal negotiations on planning would be reduced. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers the amendments to be a step in the right direction and to be supported despite the opposition's complaints. The majority of the proposals have relatively limited impact but, together, they implement the objective of streamlining the authorisation procedures. The proposed amendments for large retail entities are clearly found to have a greater impact. The aim of the Government proposal is to change the role of the Ely Centre and focus on matters of national importance. They will no longer guide the use of municipal areas and the organisation of construction activities when Article 80 of the Act proposes to remove steering powers. This speech was easy to make, but the conscience did not knock. Maybe the opposition might knock.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u98	Mr President! We had a very colorful and interesting debate in committee on this issue. Now that I have heard the experts there and now that I have heard this debate in this Chamber, I am increasingly convinced that it was very good that this kind of legal amendment was made — it was really necessary, and it became the right one in the spirit of time. Above all, it is a question of dismantling red tape, streamlining activities and making decisions in accordance with the Government Programme. The first thing we were talking about debureaucratising is the issue of a permit for landscape work. In the past, the landscape work permit could also be defined in the general plan area for areas beginning with M. But what has this landscape work permit meant for areas beginning with M? According to experts, even the first negative solution to the landscape work permit has not been found in these areas beginning with M. Which means that every single application for a permit has been treated positively. The permit application has been paid by municipality between EUR 100 and EUR 1000. It has caused a huge amount of bureaucracy, unnecessary action — it has, fortunately, now come out of it. In addition, this landscape permit has given people extra thought and imagination that it would have mattered. Now that this law clearly states that there is no need for a landscape permit for these areas starting with M, this is done in such a way that, even at the planning stage, these areas which are subject to special wishes are taken into account, so that, for example, if there is a goal that open fellings are not carried out there, it is already recorded at the planning stage. In addition, we have a new forest law that clearly states a lot of things, and it does very much help to manage landscapes. Then there are other things. This second point, 'Special conditions for the construction permit in the area of planning need': I am very pleased with this section, because I have spoken to several people from all over Finland who have been agonizing about this issue when there has been little or nothing to build on in some areas of planning need. Fortunately, "the building necessary for the operation of an existing dwelling or farm building and for the agricultural and forestry sector or its associated industries" has now been introduced into this law. This text is really necessary, this will help the diverse business sector in rural areas. For that, I am also very grateful to the members of the committee that we have extended this section to allow for a wide range of efforts. Then there is the matter of the right of appeal. I very much welcome the fact that this delimitation was made in accordance with the government proposal and the decision of our committee. There has been a great deal of discussion here about what will happen to the matter of the right of appeal. In my opinion, we are now going to focus more on making its actual decision properly at the same time and on making decisions carefully to the end at municipal level, and knowing that there is no back door to getting a negative decision from the Ely, there is no abuse in the municipalities either. The second is that the role of ely is now, as long as ely still exists, more of a debater. In other words, the resources will be used together so that a proper solution and decision can be reached at one time. After all, this whole reform is a step towards regional government reform. It has been asked whether and whether it makes sense to take this decision at this stage. I think it was absolutely good that this should be done now, because there are a lot of things on the way forward in this province. That, however, there is a clear acceptance of this whole thing. Then I will say a few more things about turning a free-time residence into a permanent dwelling. We may not have succeeded as well as we intended and intended to do, but a step forward is that we have made this a little easier. As regards free-time housing, the aim has also been that in the future leisure-time residents could be made more taxpayers in the municipality, i.e. they would have this kind of dual-municipality. How will this be done in the future? Hopefully, we will be able to develop the Land Use and Building Laws and Tax Reforms in such a way that those living in a holiday home, for example, would also pay taxes for a year on the part of the municipality where they actually live at that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u99	Madam President! It has been good to hear these speeches, in particular those of the people sitting in committee, and the various views on this. I may not be the best expert in making a statement about this, but it has been sitting there in Espoo for 14 years, however, in a council that deals with these patterns a great deal and considers how this planning method could be developed and improved. I am probably not terribly wrong if I say that, before the last parliamentary elections, almost all candidates made a special need for change in various electoral machines to streamline planning, and the second point was the examination of the right of appeal in order to reduce these complaints. This seemed to be such a common will there. That is why it may surprise and wonder that there is so much opposition to this performance that has now been brought. I personally welcome the fact that this has been imported, even if this could have been imported in a wider area, perhaps even better and more effective. Let me raise a few points here. This streamlining of planning is a good objective as a whole. This is aimed at facilitating the planning of stations, in particular through a step-by-step formula, in which it can be clearly seen that a region in the establishment plan has such a contentious area, in its design, to exclude it and to bring those parts of the need for change in the station plan into a decision which would make it easier to reach agreement in that council and would not cause any complaints. I think this is a good change because it makes sense to make planning. In Espoo, just like this, it is not uncommon that it may take five years to get one formula through to the end of the construction process. Yes, it is unreasonable for anyone who wants to build and invest, especially in growing cities. Then the possibilities for changing the uses will be increased. That too is a welcome change. The scope of the permit for landscape work is limited; it will be facilitated. Sometimes there are incomprehensible differences of opinion, which are then taken to the highest courts as possible, and in this way between 1.5 and 2 years are delayed by the implementation of a completely clear and well-defined formula. The negotiations with the authorities will be reduced. This, too, is an excellent change. Unfortunately, my hometown of Espoo is a bad example of zoning compared to, for example, Vantaa and Helsinki, where zoning is much more humane and flexible. A friend of mine bought a house with a bathroom without any permission turned into a living room when it was no longer needed. The buyer was a person of an honest type and went and then applied for a building permit for this change, which mainly restored this bathroom to proper use. Espoo required a report on the way he built, architectural drawings and so on, and the bill was EUR 5000. It is good, though, that something is being made clear here. All in all, this increases the municipality’s discretion in establishing the principles of planning, and this gives it a good opportunity. Indeed, as a weakness in this proposal, I see the rise of this large unit trade from 2000 square meters to 4000 square meters and in general the process in which these large units are placed and what they are. As if taking more of its power away from that council — even if it is the municipal government alone — seems to me to be a bad change in this. Otherwise, I very much welcome this and I am sure that this will improve over the years. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u100	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Som Helhet väkomnar jag regeringens strävan att förenkla, tydligaregöra regleringen i anslutning till planläggning och byggande. Det är bra att förhållandet till det grundlagsenliga ansvaret för milön, och samtidigt egendomsskyddet och frågor kring det kommunala självstyret har beaktats — tycker jag — i den ox lagstiftningen, och också förbättrats. En gynsam landsbygdsutveckling har positiva följder för milön, för lantbruket som nering och för hela landsbygden. Jag stöder alltså en ökad kommunal bestammanderätt i styrningen av områdesanvändningen och den begränsning som det är innehåller för ntm-centralens besvärsrätt. Det stärker kommunens och den lokala democracy nöjligheter att påverka samhällsutvecklingen. Jag tycker att också de förändringar som gäller skogsbruket är vämotiverade. Till exempel det som är innehållet ox, att slopa kravet på tilstånd för milöåtgärder, är motiverat och väkommet. Jag är glad över att regeringen i den raus frågan valt att decentralisera beslutsfattandet, när man antars i många andra frågor valt att centralisera. Bra så ox, besluten ska fattas nära pineniska, uute i kommunerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u101	Madam President! Government proposal, this reform, brings procedural and substantive facilitations to land use planning in Finland. Facilitations speed up the planning processes and promote housing construction throughout Finland, both in cities and in rural areas. That's a good thing. For example, it is easier to change the use of leisure dwellings for permanent housing and can then be decided by municipalities and municipal decision-makers. It is also a good thing that the installation and construction of solar panels and collectors is made easier. Of course, the areas and buildings of cultural historical importance must be well taken into account. The almost unnecessary bureaucratic landscape permit procedure will be substantially amended. I personally think it is very good, and it is also good that the committee in its own report also wrote down what minor measures are, for example, in the area of felling. It states that'small measures' mean, for example, the treatment of seedlings, the harvesting of seedlings and the repair of storm and insect damage', i.e. measures whose landscape effects are limited. This 'low measures' has given rise to a great deal of debate on precisely what they mean when the municipalities make general plans. All in all, I think that the government's proposal is good and, once this comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Law has already been taken up, I sincerely hope that the Government will also make decisive progress and that it will be implemented. I know it is a long process: the previous overall reform must have taken 9 years, but I believe that the overall reform that is now being carried out can be carried out more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u102	Mr President! This has already been the subject of a debate on this proposal and the committee's report. However, I would like to say that we are now doing a bit of deregulation and smoothing out of permit matters, for which there is certainly broad support here in Parliament too, and unfortunately the child is going along with the bath water in this proposal. As the previous speaker has just said, instead of such a series of continuous partial reforms, the Land Use and Building Act would certainly need a total reform, because this 20-year-old law does not meet the needs of today's spatial planning. There are a number of problems here, and perhaps the main ones are the too long completion times of the formulas, the rigidity of the formula processes, the inflexibility of the inflexibility and also the links with housing production, which, as we understand here, are very significant. President! I am dealing here with just two key issues: this abolition of the right of appeal of the Ely Centres and then this retail issue. As I have already said, we have been told in committee by a convincing point — Professor of Urban Planning Juho Rajaniemi — that it is precisely this limitation of the right of appeal of the Ely Centres that is about a change which is the answer to a problem that does not exist. For example, in these formula complaints the share of ely centres is only around 4%, i.e. 4%. So, when this number of complaints was horrified, one might say that these ely centres, which are now deprived of this right of appeal, are not at the heart of this problem and that is why the solution here is wrong. The complaints from the Ely Centres have also, as has been said, gone through a considerable number of times. The Ely Centres therefore complain only rarely and, as a rule, about decisions which, in the opinion of the administrative courts, were justified. Well, in the course of the debate on this matter it has been said that in future the role of life would be more like this sort of debate, but we have not found out who will then continue to carry out this important task at the Ely Centres, since the administrative rights have also considered that these complaints from the Ely Centres have been quite justified. So who's gonna be doing this job in the future? The answer seems to be that this will be left to local authorities and various organisations in the future. Such a transfer of state law enforcement cannot be considered to be supported. In addition, the question is that once the Ely Centres have had the opportunity to assess the way in which economic factors and the environment are balanced, what is being done in Ely Centres, and rightly so, who will be left with this in the future. I fear that regional differences and legal interpretations will only increase and make this overall work more difficult, in which, as part of this package, this possibility for the Ely Centres to intervene in the most flagrant cases has now been included in the menu. President! Finally, as far as retail is concerned, in my opinion, when some of the representatives of this same amendment to the MRL are very much calling for this increase in the potential of local authorities, this is a matter where the local authorities are deprived of influence. As I said earlier, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is therefore opposed to the repeal of Article 71e, since, according to this provision in force, municipalities have been able to provide for the quality and size of retail trade where it has been necessary for the availability of trade services — and this too should be borne in mind: not in any case, but when it has been necessary for access to trade — and this has been done locally according to the municipality’s land use management needs and now this is no longer possible in the future. In my opinion, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities rightly states: 'This change weakens the ability of municipalities to direct, if necessary, the location of commercial services in the community structure, in relation to housing and transport connections. Impairment of the conditions for the development of the service network and traffic planning will reduce the administrative capacity of community development and may have significant economic implications for municipalities, including in the light of unforeseen transport network development needs." Of course, I would have liked this to have been considered a little longer when the word from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities came, because we all know that we have considerable climate challenges in our arms and, unfortunately, this will have a negative impact on these issues as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u103	Mr President! The proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act under consideration must be supported. In the region of South-East Finland in particular, border trade has been subject to restrictions on the size of retail stores for a long time. In this proposal, the regulation of large commercial units will be significantly reduced, inter alia, by increasing the size of the large retail unit from 2000 square metres to 4000 square metres. This is a good change, but it must be said that it is not very many square feet of floor, but corresponds to a supermarket of medium size. It is important that regulation is reduced in this respect and could be further reduced. I do not mean that shopping centres should be built everywhere in the countryside, but it should be more convenient to allow where the need and customer potential are obvious. In South-East Finland in particular, where the potential for growth in border trade is high, it should be even more free to build opportunities for the development of trade. In this respect, the current rules have not been good for the development of trade. Changing the role of Ely centres to consult is a welcome change. With the removal of the steering role for planning the use of the municipality and the organisation of the construction operation, it is expected that the quality of projects will be improved and the timetables for development projects will be speeded up. The intention is to limit the control powers and the right of appeal of the Ely Centres so that they control the use and construction of municipal areas only if the impact of the decision is national or regionally significant. The limitation of the right of appeal will obviously remain a very short-term regulation, since the Ely Centres will cease to exist as a result of the regional reform. This reduces the practical significance of the change. Extending the use of the general formula is a positive development. Construction in sparsely populated areas will be facilitated by the possibility of building without a separate design solution, even in villages with significant building pressure. The current regulation has resulted in the general formula not being used to direct construction in areas outside urban areas where it is not worthwhile or appropriate to draw up a plan. Also welcome is the change that makes it easier to move to permanent housing. In the future, the municipality could indicate, in its building order, unplanned areas where leisure accommodation can be converted into permanent housing without the need for an exception decision or a planning solution. This is the right way. Mr President! All in all, the change in the Land Use and Construction Act now being discussed is a step in the right direction and is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u104	Mr President! I am very pleased that this reform of the Land Use and Building Act has reached its final stage and will come into force at the beginning of April. I welcome the fact that the possibility of using the general formula as a basis for a building permit will be increased and, if necessary, planning solutions can also be made in the future as regional ones. This will allow for more systematic construction in areas where the building pressure is not so significant for the site to be planned. This entry therefore also offers opportunities for a certain form of town planning, i.e. planning but much more freer construction in sparsely populated areas than is currently the case. This, of course, puts pressure on the development of general planning as a more interactive process in order to avoid unnecessary choices in the planning process, but in order to achieve this, each municipality and city also keeps the existing building order to support such developments. For example, in my municipality of residence, we already made a decision last autumn to draw up a general formula covering the whole municipality. This was a good decision, but now an attempt is being made to water down this good decision with a change in the building order, which would also define the whole municipality as a planning area, which is certainly not appropriate. Mr President! I gave this unfortunate example because, with these many changes in the power of municipalities in the area of construction and planning, decision-making will be brought closer to those to whom decisions apply, now if ever it is more important than ever what kind of representatives are involved in local decision-making in order to make use of these good legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u105	Mr President! This amendment to the Land Use and Building Act is about a large number of very different presentations. There is no problem in accepting such small-scale additional construction in rural areas, but the problem is that it is not very much defined what it is in small-scale construction. In any event, it will not be a problem if it remains small, nor will it be a problem if summer cottages are converted into permanent residences — it is decided by the municipality, and the municipality will bear the costs if they are incurred — nor will it be easier to put solar panels on the roofs. All of these are perfectly reasonable changes. But this law also includes very big changes, which I find very difficult to use as a basis for a general construction permit, especially if it is used and used in growing urban areas with particular building pressures. However, it is possible to take better account of the different needs associated with housing, housing comfort, including how services are placed in such a growing area. In other words, the general formula does not serve as an instrument capable of coordinating and resolving different problems for the benefit of the inhabitants. A very big problem is changing the control functions of the Ely Centres. It is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum that the legality control of municipal planning remains the responsibility of organisations and citizens. There are very different municipalities and very different resources for citizens and organisations to do this work, and there is no such measure in any rule of law. Yes, the administration must also have effective judicial control. It has already been said many times here that complaints have been made by the animals only when they have proved necessary. Around 4% of complaints are made by Ely Centres and about 90% of them have been successful, i.e. this has been an important way to achieve proper and fair planning. What is more, we really do not know how these issues will be resolved in the forthcoming regional reform, and that is why it would have made sense to leave this whole issue to that reform. There has been a lot of talk here about streamlining and dismantling red tape. Now that bill, which is here on the table, says that ely will be able to complain in the future about patterns of national significance, but it has not been defined in any way as to how this nationality is interpreted. This is the first stage in which these stages of justice are needed. There has also been much talk here about the placement of large units of commerce. This is the kind of thing that many elections have talked about, promises have been made there and promises have been made here, and perhaps those promises have also been demanded. It may be, and I myself think that this change will be delayed in the sense that citizens' shopping behaviour has changed so much, for example, as a result of digitalism and e-commerce, that consumers no longer necessarily need to seek for such large units as is estimated. An even bigger problem in the short term, if this possibility is to be respected, is that it exports services from somewhere, and it takes away the rural area, the sparsely populated area, and then reduces the possibility for people living there to have access to local services. This is something that should certainly also be taken into account by the MPs of the government parties, who speak for the countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u106	Mr President! It is nice to see that this important and expected proposal has been dealt with in committee at its core. The presentation is expected and makes many things easier. For Finns, it is important that the operating conditions of companies improve. It brings direct jobs, and construction is accelerating and, above all, municipalities can make better decisions themselves and develop their own activities. For example, when it was mentioned just now that if there is no need for large units, they will no longer be planned by the municipality, or, if necessary, the zoning will be done. In the future, planning will be an increasingly important part of the responsibilities remaining in municipalities as a result of the regional reform. Also an essential task area for municipalities is to support and enable the vitality of business life, and it is partly done through planning. It is not surprising that, once again, the Social Democrats and the Left have objected to a proposal which would increase the vitality of businesses and the vitality of rural areas and enable municipalities to develop their own territory. This kind of non-party activity is a major brake force in society: trying to water everything down by calling for an overall survey. Let us not put out the wrong thing — this is, I think, the fundamental principle of the opposition. All would be postponed after the regional reform, a regional reform which some of the opposition sounds to be opposed to. The protest of the Greens is ideological on their basis. It is basically a question of concentrating the power of decision on the agencies and of having greater wisdom than at local level. What makes this special is that, in protest, the other authority is raised above the other, the preferred authority, which becomes more ideologically appropriate positions. There is also a special appeal to the rather ideologically colored opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u107	Mr President! I believe that the amendment to the Land Use and Building Act is one of the government's most important legislative projects, which will be taken forward during this parliamentary term. It is clear that if we want out and out of this swamp of recession, that means that we need to stimulate more economic activity in this country. That is why this bill, in the form of a report, has come here for parliamentary debate, and that is why today and this moment are important. When Finland is the least populated country in the European Union, I cannot understand these opposition speeches about why we should not build more here. If we want more work and more livelihood in this country, it is without mercy that we must be able to build a new one, because it always benefits the first municipality and the state as tax revenues from creating a new one. For the EUR 1 million project, the various taxes and charges that come to the state and municipalities account for about 50 % of the amount, i.e. EUR 500000 for the EUR million project. So I do not understand this opposition from the Social Democrats. You are now opposed to increasing government revenue, which I understand is the biggest dream for you as a tax collector, to have more taxes on the state. The second is that when you have always defended the need to get people a job, this is where we are now doing it, fighting unemployment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u110	Mr President! I do not think that anything has been said here that was heard in that speech, but perhaps I am trying to understand what it meant. I myself have criticised the restriction on the right of appeal of elys. After all, the question is that the animals have complained about the legality of the municipal patterns — not of whether or not a building is in a place, but of legality. This is now completely out of the question and it is up to the public to monitor this. This cannot be considered right, and this has certainly not been a problem in the municipalities. Then another thing is that we want a comprehensive land use reform and so that we can improve the way patterns go through, improve their quality, enable better construction, enable better urban planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u111	Mr President! I am truly amazed, indeed, at what Mrs Myller has said. After all, it is incomprehensible that he calls for the law to be in force to be a means of appeal. Now that this possibility of appeal is removed, you will need a law to restore that possibility of appeal. Is it intended to go back to the 19th century, or to what point is the old legislation going back so that you can complain sufficiently much and seriously enough to block projects? In my opinion, I must recognise the facts and give people the opportunity to do business, to create the jobs that I believe the Social Democrats have always warmly missed. I have interpreted that we have a complete consensus on this point that people must get a job. Only through work can we create new growth and new livelihoods in this country. And you, Mrs Myller, are all in favour of a society run from above telling Finnish people what to do in this country. If I had dictatorial authority, I'd let you build even more. Finland is the least populated country in Europe. You rake against it, as was done in the past, that everything must be under one decision-making power and one person pushes the button. Is that what you really want?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u112	Mr President! I support Mr Modig's suggestion that objections should be raised on the basis of the debate 2. If this were accepted, the role of the Ely Centres, the regulation of large-scale units of commerce, the requirements for landscape work permits and the decision of the municipal council should not be delegated to the municipal government. Then, more specifically, on these key points of this bill. In this debate, someone has suggested that the threshold of 2000 square metres set by the current law for a large commercial unit would be some sort of limit to the size of the transactions to be built — this is not the case. It is not a cap on the size of trade; it is a question of the size of the trade or the size of the larger the size of the trade is concerned with the regulation of the large unit of trade. Mr Adlercreutz pointed out earlier in the debate that he asked the experts in the committee whether an expert felt that this change would contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. No expert came forward to this conclusion. The Finnish Environment Agency has stated that it would further reduce the network of services, increasing the need to handle everyday business by car. According to the Finnish Environment Agency, very little more than 4,000 square metres of shops are built outside large urban areas, practically not at all. In other words, this would mean that most of Finland would lose the opportunity for municipalities to control land use that is being provided by the current large unit regulation of commerce for municipalities, and that this possibility of location control would be weakened, especially in rural areas. In other words, trades of between 2000 and 400,000 square metres could be more difficult for people to reach outside the centres, which would further undermine the importance of the centres. A company called Citycon has brought to the committee the point that a large deal is simply cheaper to build outside the centres. That is why the central stores of the store prefer this way. But shopping outside the centres is in practice difficult, often impossible to get by public transportation. In its opinion, the Municipality of Hartola has also pointed out that this change in the large unit regulation of trade has a negative impact on the maintenance of services in small municipalities. Well, second of all, this role of ely centres. Many colleagues have already said that the Ely Centres have made a very small part of the complaints, 4% of all complaints. They have therefore submitted complaints in moderation but on the subject, because 80% of their complaints have been accepted, i.e. the Administrative Court has stated that in the case in point the municipality’s decision in the form of a plan does not meet the requirements of the law. As Mrs Huovinen has already said, this change in the government's proposal means that, in practice, monitoring the legality of the contents of the formulas remains largely with the citizens and organisations. In addition, the Supreme Administrative Court has pointed out that when the appeal rights of the Ely Centres are limited to matters of national and regional importance, there is a lack of clarity as to what matters the Ely now actually has the right to complain, in which case the appeal rounds may be prolonged, when a dispute arises between the Ely Centre and the Supreme Administrative Court as to whether the Ely had the right to appeal, and if it is established that there was, then there will be the second round of complaints on the substance of the matter. For example, the City of Lappeenranta has stated that the steering role of the Ely Centres has been good. In this debate, Mrs Maijala said that the role of elys would be more conversational. After all, the government's proposal also reduces this discussion role of the Ely Centres, as their obligation to negotiate their plans is reduced in exactly the same way as their right of appeal. Third, landscape permits in fellings. The requirement for landscape work permits has been criticised as unnecessary bureaucracy, as the permit for logging has always been granted. The point of landscape work permits has not been to prevent felling, but rather to influence the way in which fellings are carried out in areas that are important for the landscapes of nearby people's outdoor and recreational terrain. What I have not noticed in this debate is, at least, that there is still something that I regard as a deterioration in the government's proposal, namely that, when planning for beaches and granting building permits, the law would no longer require that a sufficiently uniform unconstructed beach be secured in the village areas. This would also lead to a deterioration in the quality of the environment in rural areas. Nor has it been mentioned much in this debate that the government is proposing a rather significant change, which, for example, Professor Juho Rajaniemi in his statement to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has considered very important in principle that the municipality can delegate the decision-making power from the municipal council to the municipal board of directors in terms of terms of terms of status. Professor Rajaniemi points out that the average processing time of the formulas could shorten perhaps about two weeks, but, in principle, the importance of the change in municipal democracy and planning law is very great, especially since this is not limited to small formulas, but in a sense does not set any limit on the size of the plan decisions that can be delegated to the municipal government. Also in Finland The Association of Architects has drawn attention to this issue and regards it as a disadvantage for local democracy and open decision-making. Mr President! I understand all those who want more inhabitants and more jobs and livelihoods in rural areas, but I cannot possibly understand that this objective would be achieved by taking services further away from housing, by further weakening the service level and status of municipal centres, by facilitating the entry into force of illegal formulas in terms of content, by putting the lawfulness of the contents of the formulas in practice largely to individual citizens and organisations, by facilitating the open felling of forests adjacent to the recreational terrain of importance to the public and by enabling villages to have no further integrated unconstructed coastal areas operating as a common area of beach recreation, and also by allowing local authorities to make their planning decisions much smaller than at present. All in all, I believe that this whole is more likely to undermine the vitality of the countryside than to improve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u113	Mr President! I am very pleased with the reduction of red tape in this reform of the Land Use and Building Law. In the future, for example, it is most likely to be much easier to change the use of a free-time residence that meets the technical requirements of a residential building. The regulation of the installation of solar panels and solar collectors will be made easier and more coherent. The authorisation to drill land heat wells will also be rationalised and bureaucracy reduced in this respect too. That's a good solution. I also welcome the reduction of the landscape permit jungle for forest logging. That way we can eliminate those apparently unnecessary licensing processes. There are also topics for satisfaction in facilitating the construction of agriculture, forestry and related industries. Mr President! Much has been said about the role of the Ely Centres here today. I welcome the reduction of the right of appeal to the Ely Centres only to sites of regional or national importance. I therefore support the fact that the Ely Centres will have a consultative role, not such a steering role. Now the decision-making power in planning is brought closer to those it applies to, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u114	Mr President! Many speeches have been made here today in this debate on the role of the Ely Centres and the changing role of the Ely Centres. In my view, the Ely Centres will now become a consultative and cooperative partner for municipalities — as long as the Ely Centres exist — so that the role of the Ely Centre will become more of a cooperative body for land use planning. I personally object to the fact that we have someone who is planning, and then there is the one who subsequently comes to it and supervises it. In this way, we have the current system in which projects are being prolonged in vain, and it also causes additional costs, and many large projects are also failing through this, so it is good that the limitation of the control of the budget will reduce the duplication of action between municipalities and the state and will contribute to the appropriate allocation of the resources of the authorities. Now, through this government's proposal, it becomes the partner of the municipalities in particular, so that at an early stage we look at those issues, and then the minor complaints made by the Ely Centres can also go away, and I personally hope that this will happen. In fact, I sincerely believe that the municipalities want to plan and build the kind of building that contributes specifically to the vitality of the municipalities and to what is needed for them in the region. There has also been much discussion about this increase in the size of a large retail unit from 2000 to 4000 square metres. There is certainly a difference of opinion on this issue, but Finland is also a different country, and this is something that is supported in South-East Finland. It is precisely there that many shoppers have come from across the eastern border, and it is a good thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u115	Mr President! One particular feature of this proposal is clear, and that is that this has been done very far from the rural point of view rather than from the point of view of large growing cities, and it is perhaps such a clear deficiency in this proposal. It is a good thing that this is now being done before the overall reform takes place, because then, when it comes to it, the possible errors that have been left behind and which will then prove to be clearly bad alternatives can be corrected in that overall reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u116	Mr President! Mr Hassi spoke last time, and I have to say that there are a lot of things that we really disagree on. That is why I am very pleased that we are getting this reform of the Land Use and Building Law done now that we have a responsibility in this matter and we are also taking responsibility for this matter, how we will continue to live in that rural area. Mr Hassi was afraid that all the beaches would be built and that there would no longer be areas for recreational use. Over the decades, we have had the opportunity to build a lot on the shores in Finland, and yet we still have extremely little building stock on the shores. Where there is a need to limit construction, coastal plans have already been made, and other formulas have been made for these matters, so that they have been able to and will continue to be limited if necessary. But in most of our coastal areas it is quite possible and reasonable that construction activities will be carried out there if someone just comes to build something there. Then, indeed, the municipalities will continue to have a great deal of steering measures and opportunities to take these things forward. It was a good thing that it was said, on behalf of Mrs Torniainen, that Ely is a partner, an extremely good word: a partner. We're not each other's stalkers and watchers, we're doing these things together, we're trying to make good decisions together. Finally, on this issue of landscape work permit. It has indeed been a flower of bureaucracy, a flower of bureaucracy, because if there is no forest clearing to prevent it from coming. Yes, those methods must be those that really have meaning and effect. This has had nothing more than the importance of cashing in the whole M-region, this landscape work permit issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u117	Mr President! This role of the Ely Centres is limited to the fact that more representatives have spoken here about them becoming partners. I shall now read one paragraph of the report by the committee: 'The purpose of the government proposal is to change the role of the centres of industry, transport and the environment and to focus on matters of national importance. They will no longer guide the use of municipal areas and the organisation of construction activities when Article 18 of the Act proposes to remove steering powers. The role of the public authority in relation to the general and station plans shall be limited to the extent that it is mandatory only in respect of those formulas which affect national or significant regional issues or which are important for the State authority’s implementation obligation. At the same time, the control rights of the Ely Centres will be limited accordingly." In other words, this steering and discussion role of the elys is limited in exactly the same way as their right to appeal, so it is quite a misunderstanding that they would become more of these sort of negotiating partners — they will also be deprived of this possibility of negotiation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u118	Mr President! It is precisely here that what the chairman of the committee said is clearly visible, which is why it has been required from us here that the guidance of the Ely Centres should not be carried out separately but as part of this possible future regional reform. I understand, however, that it is now up to the province to promote sustainable development on its own territory. However, it is not given any tools, because there are no tasks here that are said to remain for the ely to be transferred to the provinces — at least that is what I have been told. So this speech, when we talk about cooperation here, is of little importance. We have to understand that planning and land use have big interests, there is a public interest, there is a private interest, and now this proposal goes very far in the direction of private interest and undermines public interest. In this respect, it is precisely the fact that municipal decisions do not have legal control that is very important. On the other hand, it also surprises me that it is proposed here that these forms of employment may be decided on in accordance with the municipality's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u119	Mr President! In this debate, a representative Mr Eestilä rightly pointed out that, when we talk about turning a holiday home into a permanent dwelling in the planning area, this reform, although very good and excellent, remained half way in this respect. Where there is a zoning area, it is not as free to do so. This is a very big problem for me, especially for us in Lapland, where there are a lot of leisure homes. They're in mountain centers that are zoning areas. It's got municipal technology. They're like little villages or towns. And there, if somewhere should be flexible enough to change these, but that is something that unfortunately does not bring any relief. But I think it is excellent that the Minister The Vehvilite has now launched a study of the duality. I hope this goes well. I think it is an excellent project. Then, at the end of the day, I would like to say that, when there is concern in many speeches that the steering effect of the municipality will be weakened, this bill will not interfere with the municipal planning monopoly. The municipality continues to maintain the zoning monopoly. The municipality is an entity that plans the municipal area as a general plan as well as a Detail plan, and in that sense through planning the municipality can continue to direct its construction very strongly in that municipality area — and this time a little more freely, since it does not have such a close connection with the Ely centre. Should this have waited now for the regional reform? I think it is good that this is already being imported. Through regional reform, many things are changing in a good direction, but the regional reform package is already thick enough so that not all the world's legislation should have been incorporated into it. That 1002 pages is already a nettle to survive this parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u120	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs MmVM 2/2017 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then at second reading on the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u121	Mr President! All in all, this government proposal and the preparation of the proposal has been a sad story. This is where the decisions are made on extremely big and important issues. We are talking about a state agreement with Norway and the amendment of the Fisheries Act. And when there is a treaty, it is no longer being tampered with here; it is either accepted or rejected — and that the most important thing is not forgotten: I propose that the government be rejected. In the protest against the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and also on the table, there are various statements, but they are always statements. They can express good will, but statements will not save us if the groundwork is as bad as this. We in this Chamber are not fish biologists or scientists, and we are not all constitutional experts, and we parliamentarians lack much more knowledge. But then a good solution would be to genuinely listen to the people concerned, especially when it comes to minority rights and the preservation of a unique culture and way of life. No one can say, at least, that the position of the local people has not been made clear. It was already clear in August last year in northern Lapland, when The MPs from Lapland visited. Mr President! This report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry contains two proposals for statements. The first refers to the need to secure sufficient resources for the Land Survey to be able to complete the old settlements. The second statement is indeed a master of all watering. It states: 'The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, together with Norway, requires that the general functioning of the agreement be examined' — 'examined' and 'general functioning' — and the trends in fish stocks not later than three years'. In other words, very such circular references, which do not so much impose on anything. And if we are talking about a three-year horizon that in three years' time, does the tourist or programme service entrepreneur have the luxury of waiting for three years when there is no certainty as to what the situation will be next summer? And I am not at all sure of even the ecological arguments or the cause-effect relationships that have been put forward for the adoption of this agreement. I am referring, for example, to the figures on land ownership, and The estimates presented by the Natural Resources Agency against other estimates of correct production and sustainability of the stock. If the experts — or those who have appointed themselves as an expert — disagree on such matters, then there is a place for reflection. For me personally, it is enough to reject this proposal if two constitutional rights strike each other in the ears, i.e. the memorable rights of the minority people, protected by the Constitution and international treaties, and then the non-material right which, for example, has been transferred in the real estate trade. In that case, that would be sufficient reason to pull the brakes and reject the agreement and start a new preparation. And I am the most concerned, Mr President, about the climate that has been poisoned and poisoned at local level. It is felt in the north that when so much has been taken, this too will be taken. The recent memory is how the division of the fish in Lake Inari was changed so that when it was previously half for the Metsähallitus, half for the locals, then the solution was made that in the future, the commercial use of Metsähallitus is two thirds, and only one third for the locals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u122	Mr President! Despite a good report, the overall picture is that the SDP believes that an agreement of this kind should enjoy strong trust and acceptability among locals and that the agreement does not take sufficient account of the legitimate interests of the landowners of the out-of-town region. The SDP has agreed with the statement made in the protest calling for a study to be carried out on the economic, social, cultural, environmental and rights implications of the Tenojoki Agreement. Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. A motion of rejection made by Mustajärvi for a government motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u123	Mr President! Mr Mustajärvi spoke with merit and paid particular attention to one thing, and that is that we did sleep past this when the total reform of the fisheries law was carried out last season. We were very vigorous with Inari and made statements — it fell with a few votes — but at that point we did not see what was happening on the Teno fork. At this stage, although there is currently little information on preparation, it has been pointed out that Metsähallitus will start selling permits to recreational fishermen. And this previous right of enjoyment, which was for the locals, is off, and now here comes the double cost. I am perplexed that the Northern Members have, in a way, taken such a soft stand on these issues. The representatives of Mustajärvi — exceptionally — and Ojala-Niemela have been involved. Mr Wallin said well what was in the objection. Nevertheless, for my part, I have tabled a proposal for a statement to be distributed to the tables, and, without reading it, of course, it will focus more on the rights of the Sami people and the opportunities for local operators to engage in business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u124	Mr President! The Teno River is the pearl of the North Atlantic. Thirty different salmon populations live there, the most diverse salmon leek in the world. In recent years, the development of salmon stocks has been worrying, as the catch is too high and salmon is declining. The current Teno Agreement is no longer sufficient to safeguard salmon stocks, let alone the uncontracted state. Teno's salmon catches have been on average 90 tonnes per year for the past few decades, compared to 140 tonnes just over ten years ago. Scientists and experts have reported that catches must be cut by at least 30% in order to restore fish stocks over a few generations of fish over a period of about ten years. In particular, large salmon have decreased at the tops of the river. It is important to secure the rise of fish. The state agreement negotiated with Norway on Teno fishing is a compromise for all. Fisheries will be reduced by about 30%. Fishing has been cut from both the beginning and the end of the fishing season. Fishing with traditional gears is limited to local residents. In this way, local river Sami culture and livelihoods have been secured. It is essential that the Sámi can maintain their traditional fishing culture on the Teno River. This includes dam fishing, online fishing and transport, i.e. driftnet fishing. The great lack of agreement is that, in the case of Sámi out-of-towners, the practice of traditional fishing is hindered. It is important that those who have been granted a fishing licence can maintain their indigenous culture and roots when travelling to the Tenojoki valley. There is a flaw in the agreement that no fishing rights have been agreed with Norway for Sámi out-of-towners. However, the state of salmon stocks is so weak that it is not in anyone's interest to continue on the basis of an old agreement or in an uncontracted state. A key element of the agreement is that, as the situation improves for salmon, it can be made more flexible to make changes. I expect that the rights of the Saami will be improved as soon as possible and when salmon stocks allow it. The Tenojoki Agreement also establishes a local observatory to assess the functioning of the agreement and to take initiatives. It is essential that the Sámi are involved in all further negotiations. The agreement has also cut free fishing, i.e. tourism fishing permits by one third. It is essential that traditional fishing gears continue to be limited to the use of locals and Sámi. The purpose of the agreement is to safeguard salmon so that stocks are preserved and the Sámi can continue to pursue a fishing culture in the Tenojoki valley. In committee we heard about the research methods of the Natural Resources Centre and the state of the salmon in the Teno River. Fish stocks have been studied for decades: There is maternal fish ascent monitoring, video tracking, fish diving and research with sonar. The genetics of fish have been monitored from scales samples. It is essential for research to be developed more comprehensively and for dialogue with locals. In order to safeguard salmon, it is essential to prevent the salmon parasite from entering Teno. Therefore, only boats registered there may be used on the Teno River and tourist fishing equipment must be disinfected. We must also speed up the regulation to protect the salmon stocks in Teno's waters. This agreement does not affect the fishing of tributaries, and the committee has stated that it is necessary to restrict the fishing of tributaries. This agreement has been under negotiation for years. If Parliament decided to reject Teno's fisheries agreement, Norway would probably terminate the current agreement before the 2018 fishing season. It's a big risk to fish. The Parliament was not in a position to make changes to the content of the agreement, as matters have been agreed in a state agreement with Norway. On the other hand, with an agreement between the countries, we can also influence fishing on the Norwegian side of the Teno River. Amendments to the Agreement shall be negotiated with Norway. The agreement must be considered better for indigenous peoples as soon as the recovery of salmon stocks allows it. It is essential for Parliament to require a statement to continue negotiations in order to safeguard traditional fishing related to the Sámi culture. The Convention on Indigenous Peoples' Rights (ILO 169) must also be ratified. Mr President! The renewal of the Teno River Fisheries Agreement will enable the endangered salmon stock to recover in the most important salmon river in the Atlantic, but will not guarantee Saami sufficient rights to fish in accordance with their cultural traditions. The opportunity for the Sami people to practise their culture must also be guaranteed for future generations. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states, the right to pursue one's own culture is not bound by the Constitution. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has done a good job dealing with the agreement. This agreement is a difficult decision for me, because I am strongly on the side of the Sámi and on the side of unique biodiversity and the preservation of salmon. Salmon is a prerequisite for preserving culture. There can be no Sámi culture if the salmon loses Teno. It is important that in committee we put forward a statement in the report calling for a review of the functioning of the agreement in three years' time, how it has affected salmon, the Saami and the out-of-town people. Mr President! Safeguarding the rights of the Sami people must be at the heart of further work. I would like to make the following statement to the House for approval: "In order to implement the constitutional rights of the Sámi people in the further development of the agreement and the fisheries rule based on it, the right of the Sámi to practise traditional forms of fishing, irrespective of their place of residence, for example by allocating a separate fishing quota to the Sámi. It must also be possible to improve the rights of the Sami people during the term of the contract. The strengthening of the rights of the Sámi should be kept on the agenda for examining the functioning of the agreement and no later than three years after its entry into force."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u125	Mr President! I have to say at the outset that I fully agree with Mr Mustajärvi on most of the issues. If you use black humor, you can say that this agreement and the negotiation of the agreement have been balanced in the sense that no one is satisfied with this agreement, its content or the process. In serious terms, this content does not satisfy the inhabitants of the region, nor does tourism entrepreneurs — not on either side of Finland, not on the Norwegian side, nor on either side of the Sámi — and also the Lappish MPs have very strongly criticised the content of this agreement. Mr President! Tenojoki has the largest wild salmon stock in the Atlantic region. On average, 130 tons of salmon have been fished out of the river each year, which is the largest amount in any river in the world. In recent years, however, the catch levels have decreased slightly, but it is difficult to verify what is the salmon stock in the river and what is actually the state of the salmon that is rising there, and there is conflicting information and research. That is why I think it is very important and good that the government has allocated an appropriation to the fact that sonar counters will now be installed in the river, in order to actually obtain objective information on the number of salmon entering the river. Over the decades, salmon has also brought a significant number of tourists to the region. An important industry in Utsjoki is the tourism industry related to fishing tourism. On both the Finnish and Norwegian sides, local settlements have mainly been settlements of the Sami people. Utsjoki is the only Finnish Sámi majority-owned municipality. Fishing with traditional fishing gears and fishing methods is an integral part of the Sámi culture. The agreement now negotiated with Norway is problematic in many respects. The first problem is that this agreement significantly restricts the fishing rights of the Sámi with traditional fishing gears. If we are thinking of the Sámi culture, there has been talk in this Chamber of the rights of the Sámi people and the improvement of their rights, particularly during the last parliamentary term, but also during this parliamentary term. There has been talk of a Nordic Sámi agreement, an ILO agreement, a reform of the Sámi law. And it is true that these articles of the law can be reformed, but if we really want to maintain the Sámi language and culture and to safeguard its future, the only way is to ensure that traditional livelihoods remain alive and that the region has the opportunity to live and operate through their traditional livelihoods. These include reindeer husbandry, Sami handicrafts, hunting and so on, one of which is traditional fishing. If these livelihoods cease, then this culture will be threatened, because language and culture go largely along with these livelihoods. That is why I am particularly concerned about this, because this agreement does impose more restrictions on local rights than it would be necessary to safeguard the maintenance of salmon stocks. The second issue I am concerned about is the development of the tourism industry in the region. There are many entrepreneurs who are very concerned about what this will mean in practice. It is quite clear that if Parliament approves this agreement, if it enters into force between Norway and Finland, then all the measures that can be taken within the framework of this agreement to guarantee the conditions for tourism businesses to operate must be taken. The third thing I am very concerned about is, of course, the salmon stock in the Teno River, or the salmon stocks, there are dozens of different stocks there. It is clear that no local resident wants those Teno salmon stocks to be destroyed in the long term and fished in such a way that they are in danger. That is perfectly clear. Local people live in nature and nature and want to protect that salmon stock in the long term, keep it strong so that it has the opportunity to live, live and work with livelihoods as well. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this Treaty and saw three types of issues concerning the constitution, the Constitution. One is the protection of the assets of the Constitution, Article 15, then Article 17 of the Constitution, which specifically deals with the right of the Sami people to culture, and Article 21 of the Constitution once again deals with everyone's responsibility for the environment, which is why salmon stocks are protected. The committee also stated in its opinion to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that this agreement is problematic with regard to the right guaranteed by all three constitutions. In a certain way, they are also contradictory. There was also a vote in committee. I myself said that there are problems here, particularly from the point of view of the rights of the Sami people, so much that this should be dealt with here by a two-thirds majority. Unfortunately, I lost the vote, and now we are in this situation. What I had in mind was that in this agreement — although salmon must be protected, fishing must be restricted — the means could also have been chosen so that they could have been better coordinated with the rights of the Sámi and local tourism fishing. There would have been scope for this, and that is why this was so problematic that, in my opinion, and also in the opinion of a number of serious experts, this should have been put behind the threshold. This did not happen, however, and now Parliament, when it comes to an international agreement, must either accept or reject this. We are in a difficult situation because this content is not in the heart of the centre, it is not in the minds of the Lapps' representatives; neither is this the position of the government, but it is the position that has arisen in the negotiations between Norway and Finland. When Norway has about 30 salmon rivers and we have three salmon rivers, two of which are border rivers, the most significant of which is the Teno River, the Norwegian negotiating arrangements are quite different from those of Finland. When this river leaves — 60 km — it flows first on the Norwegian side and then becomes a border river. This, too, shows what the negotiating arrangements are. This is a very sad situation in which we have to accept it. If we had been allowed to decide on this in Finland, this content would be quite different. However, we are now choosing between plague and cholera whether to accept or reject when the content cannot be influenced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u126	Yes, when I listened carefully to Mr Salmon's reports, I did come to the conclusion that you opposed this agreement in principle, and when, in an expert consultation with the committee, all the local people objected to it, the Sámi presented a wreckage, the tourism entrepreneurs presented a wreck, the representatives of the centre do not think this is good. The representatives of Lapland think this is bad, so does it not now come to a clear conclusion that this must be rejected, as Mr Mustajärvi has suggested and I have supported him, that a wreck be put in place and negotiated with a better one that is satisfied with the local inhabitants, the Sámi, the tourist entrepreneurs, then the representatives of the city centre
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u127	Mr President! Mr Wallin understood my speech quite correctly. I do not consider this agreement to be any good at all, but what was my outcome after all of this is that we are in a very bad place, because there is an international agreement with Norway and Finland, this is not for us alone to decide. If we could still influence the content, we would. The situation is that, if this agreement is not approved, the Norwegian side has been given the impression that they are going to terminate the current agreement and not to renegotiate, and the situation that we have an uncontracted state in the river where the border goes — not in the middle of the river, but in the deepest part of the river — and that is the current water, in practice the rowing in that river would end. This situation is not good to any extent either. Then the situation would be extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u128	Mr President! After all, the Constitutional Committee voted on this issue, as Mrs Salmon said, but when you look at whether it was left out of the position of the Constitutional Committee, there was a difference of opinion on the opinion, yes, but it was done by a Swedish representative alone. At least I have learned during my parliamentary career that if you are serious about something, then the committee will try to improve the report or the opinion, if necessary, by changing it. If the vote fails, then let us leave a different opinion or objection and then let the House act accordingly. In other words, it is quite interesting to say from just one mouth how bad this proposal is, but let us give the impression that there is no other option. My options were solved last August when I listened to the local people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u129	Mr President! It is true that the Constitutional Committee voted on this proposal and the signatory. I said, as I said, that this should be behind the threshold, so to speak, that is to say, two thirds of what we have here in Parliament. Unfortunately, the vote did not win, 6 to 8 was the result. After that, if I had left a different opinion, it would not have changed the situation. That vote determined the content of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I was sorry about that. Now that the representatives of the Left Alliance, in particular, are making good speeches on this in themselves but point the finger at a few other representatives, the Left Alliance has one in committee, he happens to be the chairman. If he had come behind the signatory here, the matter would have been resolved by the President-in-Office in favour of that decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u131	Mr President! I was on the Utsjoki Saturday and Sunday. It was interesting, by the way, to listen to the debate by the Utsjoke. By the way, the decibels got pretty high up there, there were people across party lines and the atmosphere was really intense. People were in trouble. It was really an emergency that from now on we will get through these things. People had felt really alone, felt that we had not been heard. The rights of the Saami have been seriously trampled on. It discussed very many multi-hours during the two days. Thank you for all the messages and comments and lunch you gave me here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u134	Mr President! Representative Salmon used a very good expert speech here and an enlightening speech from many sides. I must say that it is not a pleasant thing for this whole thing to deal with. There are so many bad things in this agreement for Finland. Things have been agreed between states. There is no room for change for Parliament to do this. This is a 'take or leave' proposal, so it is necessary to be able to assess the benefits and disadvantages and to carry out some kind of overall assessment in mind, first of all in the interest of Finland, in the interest of the Teno River, in the interest of the Sami people and, finally, even in the interest of the salmon itself. This is a complex issue. The agreement is bad, but as has been shown here, this is better than not having an agreement at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u137	Next up, Congressman Hassi. — In the meantime, I would like to say that my assessment is that the representative: The salmon is not here to talk about salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u138	Mr President! In fact, I asked to speak first and foremost in support of Mr Karimäki's proposal, but Mr Laukkanen was able to do so. However, I would also like to express my support and support for Mr Karimäki's efforts in relation to the fact that the Constitutional Committee has identified the problem that the use of traditional Sámi forms of fishing is now being tied to the place of residence in this Treaty and in the fisheries code, even though the Constitution itself does not justify the right to pursue its own culture on the basis of its place of residence, which the Constitutional Committee has also identified as a problem. It is the idea of Mr Karimäki's statement that efforts are being made to correct this issue in the further development of the practical application of this agreement and of the fisheries code. I would now like to point out that I can understand those who wish to reject this agreement if rejection means that the current situation is maintained. But according to all probability, rejection would not mean maintaining the current situation, because Norway has made it very clear that if Finland rejects this agreement, Norway will terminate it by next year's fishing season, which would mean that since the summer of 18, no Finnish citizen would be able to fish at the full width of the river and the traditional fishing patterns of the Sami people would immediately become completely illegal, because their legality under Finnish law is based only on this agreement between Finland and Norway.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u139	Mr President! The Finnish-Norwegian border river agreement and other legislative proposals concerning the fishing of the Tenojoki river have been worked on for a long time. The proposed fisheries agreement, with its limitations, is largely a compromise whereby fishing by all groups of fishermen must be restricted in order to safeguard fish stocks. However, the problem with the Tenojoki agreement that has been negotiated is that the agreement significantly undermines the rights of the Sami people in relation to the rest of the population. It is important that the salmon stocks in the Teno River are protected by restrictions on fishing rights. However, it significantly undermines the Sámi's ability to continue to develop their culture and, above all, limits the Sámi's potential for traditional fishing in the Teno River. Both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have stated that the Border River Agreement violates the rights of the Sami people as indigenous people. Nevertheless, the bill is on the way. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u140	Mr President! I asked to speak first of all to thank you for the hundreds and hundreds of contacts I, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, have received on this very complex and multidimensional issue of the Teno River salmon agreement. Secondly, I should like to comment on Mrs Wallin's speech. Mrs Wallin has proposed to reject this agreement, pointing out that in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry many of the people who have been consulted have proposed to reject this agreement. However, Mr Wallin did not say that these rejected parties presented it partly for different reasons, i.e. they did not agree with each other on this. At least I never got a picture of the unity that may have been implied here. And because it is so nuanced and nuanced, I shall be very brief and hopefully without any room for interpretation. I consider the agreement, with its shortcomings, to be better than the non-contractual situation, and here I am referring to the way in which Norway has indicated its reaction to it if this agreement is now rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u141	Congressman Eestilä. — Sorry, Mrs Wallin, for the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u142	When my name was mentioned, it is good to answer. — So I said about the expert consultation: all the locals, both the Sámi and the other locals, played the wreckage. In addition, the municipality of Utsjoki presented the wreckage, i.e. by decision of the municipal government it presented the wreckage. The only thing that was on a different basis was the association or union of property owners from out of town, and there was Veikko Rint hill, who played the wreck from others. They noted that the interests of the out-of-town population have not been sufficiently taken into account. But the Sámi, local people, other property owners and then the municipality of Utsjoki felt that this must be rejected and renegotiated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u143	And now, Congressman Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u144	Mr President! This Parliament is sometimes a little peculiar when things move on here that no one supports, and things that everyone supports are not going on here. [Laughter] But seriously, Mr President, I am taking a setback there at the beginning of the last parliamentary term in 2012, that is to say, the then Committee on Agriculture and Forestry began to fight against its own government, due to salmon policy in the Baltic Sea. It was a rather heavy road, it was discussed for several weeks, and in the end the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry took the lead. Today, if we look at salmon rising into the Tornio River, the number is many times higher than at the beginning of the decade. I do not know how much this new salmon policy, which significantly reduced quotas, has helped this issue, but it has been very important in any case. Every fisherman knows and perhaps others know that the more spawning salmon we have, the better the salmon stock we have in the future. Well, this Baltic salmon issue is a matter in itself. In fact, the only thing that it has in common with the Tenojoki salmon problem and the State Agreement between Finland and Norway on the Teno River is that we want to save salmon and salmon stocks. In particular, the spawning stock target of the tributaries must be improved and, of course, the main bed. That is what is behind the whole agreement that something must be done, and at least I trust the scientists, because they have been studying salmon stocks with the Norwegians for a long time. There is a clear trend that in this decade especially has gone down and long-term has gone down with its most valuable heritage, the salmon of three or four years of the sea. This is the reason why we are now going to conclude a treaty that no one here is in favour of. But to the extent that we, as Members of Parliament, have to deal with these issues fairly and bring the views of all the groups of interest to the fore. They are not the rights of the Saami and the rights of the local people that this treaty deals with, but we must respect the Constitution, too, insofar as everyone's property is protected and people are equal before the law. So I understand that Teno Real Estate Owners Association has strongly taken a stand during this trip that they will not be satisfied with this agreement. It does not satisfy the Saami, and it does not necessarily satisfy the locals. Under these circumstances, it has been rather difficult for decision-makers to reach an agreement and compromise that this treaty represents, because there are five constitutional rights behind it and because whenever you give one more constitutional right as it were, you reduce the other. This is the fact, and we parliamentarians cannot escape the facts and speak when to whom. That is what I have to say about this preparation of the treaty, because I know that even on the Utsjoki, this shipment is being monitored, that none of us politicians have contributed to the granting of a maximum of 30% of the quota, for example, to the out-of-towners. It's been given a grandeur, and it's come, and none of us have been working on this. Now we are simply in a position to reject this agreement or not to reject it. When such a treaty with details is brought here in this way, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has in no way been able to influence these key issues, such as how many days a week is being transported or considered networks. They have come to us through the negotiations between Finland and Norway. But I agree with Mr Mustajärvi's view that I am also sorry that this has caused feelings and that people and groups of people have been pitted against each other, and that is never a good starting point, because yet our intention is to make the Teno River even better. I have the impression that if we can wait five to ten years, there will be more salmon there if we stick to these agreements. On the other hand, we never know what is going on there at sea, because the sea conditions and the biosphere that is there can change and then affect the salmon that are rising into the river, but there is nothing that this Parliament or the Norwegians or Finns can do about it. But it is quite clear to me that we must, diplomatically, work with Norway to manage this border river agreement and the size of salmon stocks and all the factors involved in fishing, because 60 km is on the Norwegian side of this river Teno and then they are the first people to fish more or less. In that respect, I personally support this border river agreement, which is the only way to deal with this issue together with the Norwegians. But I am so concerned, as has been pointed out here, that the greatest sufferer in this area will be tourism entrepreneurs, as we already know. I would not use the word 'disaster' now, but next summer will be very confusing, and that is why it will be confusing, because even now none of us know how this licence sales will be organised, because for the first time there are pools and then the prices of the licence will change and they will be regulated by the regulation, which makes this problematic both for tourism entrepreneurs and also for tourists. None of us and our friends now know whether four of us will be able to get permits there in the first week of July and whether or not we can get to and to which pool, that is, all of these are unclear, and that is not necessarily in anyone's interest. One thing we need to resolve, or what is primarily a matter for the Government to decide by decree, is how to deal with the permits and the number of permits sold to the Metsähallitus tributaries. At least I have the impression that this is a 30% reduction in fishing for the main line, that we must also deal with Metsähallitus in the same way, that is to say, it must be in sync with these limitations. When the main bath has been reduced, the sales of Metsähallitus should also be very moderate on the sidelines, and those where this spawning target has escaped badly to the bottom deck must be calmed down, and this is what has been done there. Personally, I have great confidence in local residents and long-term fishermen. They know what is happening here and they are well aware, and in that sense it is good that this local monitoring group has now been set up. If this agreement is approved by Parliament, it seems that for the first time we will assess what is going on in three years' time. Of course, there are clauses there, that it is always evaluated and looked at fish stocks, and if it seems to be going in a worse direction, then new measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u145	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mrs Myllykoski, which has been distributed to the tables, according to which 'the Parliament requires the Government to continue negotiations to ensure traditional fishing for the Sámi culture and the vitality of local communities'. It also obliges the preparation of the future regulation in such a way that the tourism quota of tourists does not threaten salmon and local rights, and also obliges the assessment of the relationship between the commercial fishing of tributaries and the rights of local people. I will also make a motion for a statement in response to the objection in the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which is contained in the document. But then again, Mr President, there is a similar pattern of action to that of the Metsähallitus forestry sector. I wondered how three government parties and parliamentary groups were able to hide behind a non-existent EU clause. This now goes behind the Constitutional Committee and behind its report. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs evaluates government proposals and treaties in relation to the Constitution and how they should be run forward. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not require that this government proposal be adopted. On the contrary, a political decision is being made here in the Chamber. If it is so difficult for the government parties and the representatives of the parliamentary groups of the government parties to follow the voice of conscience, then I can guide you how to press the red button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u146	Mr President! It is good that when help is needed, it is close. In this respect, I trust Mr Mustajärvi's guidance on voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u149	Mr President! First of all, Mr Eestilä made a very good speech on this whole too. In particular, it is easy to share this concern about the situation in the coming summer of fishing tourism. Looking now at the proposals for statements made on this subject, Mr Karimäki has made me quite a good statement. There is only one problem: when reference is made here to the need to allocate a separate fishing quota to the Sami people, it is difficult for us to know who the Sami people are. The electoral list of the Sámi people does not tell us who the Sámi are, and even if it does, it is not a public document from which we can see it. But not all Sámi have even made it to the electoral register, and that is why this is a problem, but the idea here is an awful good one. Then there is Mrs Myllykoski's proposal, which is based on the fact that 'the Parliament requires the government to continue negotiations to ensure traditional fishing for the Sámi culture and the vitality of local communities'. I think this is a very good idea. Now, within the framework of this agreement, and after that, everything we can do in our country, so that traditional Sámi fishing can continue and the situation can be improved. When it comes to safeguarding vitality in the local community, I think that the essential part of this is that we are able to secure the conditions of the tourism industry there in the river Tenojoki on Utsjoki. To conclude, I would like to say, President, that the majority of that salmon stock, which will spawn in the Teno River, will be fished in the sea area and regulated not by this agreement, but by the EU's common fisheries policy. That, too, is one of the problems here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u150	Mr President! It is nice to be able to agree with Mrs Myllykoski for once when she proposes a statement. "It requires the Government to continue negotiations with a view to safeguarding That's good. But we also need a lot of other issues related to the development of Samiism to be taken into account in the future. The Utsjoki emergency has now been heard, discussed. But it must also tell a lot about the Utsjoki emergency — by chance I have returned from Utsjoki in recent days — that Metsähallitus’s nature cabin burned down and the other building of Metsähallitus burned down the next day. These are serious signs that some are willing to act, possibly even in an extreme way. Of course, this is never desirable or acceptable. But without these clues, we will certainly now hear and know that measures must be taken with regard to the river Uts and, in particular, to help the culture of Sámi there for them. What else could this help be, of course, is that we get these traditional fishing methods, because it contains a great deal of Sámi-related issues. Fishing and the Sámi language are very closely linked. What else is there, then, about the Saami, which has recently been violated in the case of the Saami? Paragraph 10 of the Fisheries Act, which I have just mentioned, but there are many other cultural issues which I am sure we will soon have to discuss and think about anyway how we can help them to move forward on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u151	Mr President! It was nice to hear that Mr Salmon considered the impetus proposed by Mr Karimäki to be quite good, so I hope that Mr Salmon and many others will consider supporting it in the vote tomorrow. But when he mentioned this separate fishing quota for the Sámi, the difficulties involved, I would like to stress that, in this effort of Mr Karimäki, it is necessary to safeguard the rights of the Sámi people to traditional fishing whatever their place of residence, for example by allocating a separate fishing quota to the Sámi. So it does not rule out the fact that there are some better ways to go. The week before yesterday, when the Sámi delegation visited Parliament to discuss this matter, I asked them what they themselves thought would be the allocation of this particular quota to the Sámi for the pursuit of this traditional fishing. In principle, they considered it quite feasible, saying that the same thing was done by these old silos, the Lapp villages. So I think that's within the limits of the possibilities, too, if there's really a will. I am well aware of this fact that, for example, the electoral list of the Sámi Parliament is not a public document. However, I do not think it is impossible to act in such a way that a person who wants to get out of this kind of quota, if such a quota is set up, may then voluntarily add to the application proof that he is on the election list of the Sámi people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u152	Mr President! I believe that Mr Salmon made a very important speech on the statement made by Mr Karimäki. Last season in the Constitutional Committee we were at the same time and there was a long discussion of the reform of the Sámi law. It ended in the way that Minister Henriksson withdrew his proposal because it was impossible to determine who was a Sámi. This statement by Karimäki is good, but in reality it cannot be carried out, as Mrs Salmon said. At least the Social Democrats are not going to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u153	Mr President! This opinion of the committee states that the committee stresses that the fishing rule relating to the agreement will initially be in force for a period of five years, and then it is said that an evaluation will have to be carried out within three years. The possibility is that, if this agreement is completely impossible in practice, then it will also be unilaterally withdrawn and new negotiations will be launched. That is also possible here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u154	Mr President! I would like to add to this statement that this idea in this statement by Mr Karimäki is a good one, but it is only because it is so difficult for us to go out and determine who is a Sámi, and that is why we are looking for that kind of treatment. I do not think it would work either that it would be enough then to have someone's fishing rights if you gave a certificate that you are on the election list of the Sámi people, because there are far from all those who have sought to meet the criteria and get there. This has now been approached by the fact that it is precisely the local population that has been given a special and different status than other bodies, such as property owners, which, on the one hand, is a small problem — it will also be a test of the limits of property rights — but, on the other hand, it is the intention that, through the favour of local residents, a sort of attempt should be made to resolve this Sami issue. When this was discussed in the Constitutional Committee, this was also in this government proposal and in the negotiations behind what has been resolved. But this is definitely not perfect. Those Sámi who do not live on the Utsjoki cannot do this traditional fishing through these local rights. This is the problem. On the other hand, the problem is that this agreement will make a significant start on limiting the fishing gear and time, and so on, which is linked to this. So there is a lot of problem here, and that is why, unfortunately, although the idea is good, this statement by Karimäki cannot be supported. The Myllykoski statement, on the other hand, is good. And the negotiations must be continued in order to take greater account of the vitality of locals, including the community.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u155	Mr President! At the moment, when this access to traditional forms of fishing which live outside the area is based on the fact that the fishing rights have been inherited, I believe that this is also an opportunity to approach the way in which people outside the region are entitled to use these traditional fishing methods, when hopefully the further work of this agreement will also be carried out on the basis of the objective of safeguarding the rights of the Sami people to practise their own culture, as the Constitution says, that is, the place of residence is not the subject of the right to pursue their own culture. I believe that there is a solution to this if there is a will, although I do not want to belittle it as to the difficulties involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u156	Madam President! For my part, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for working very hard on this issue and for hearing dozens of experts and scientists. I would also like to thank you for our advice, which provided a very good basis for this report. Finally, for my part, I would like to say that of those who were in contact with us as parliamentarians, either as owners, as rightholders, as local people or as Sami people, no one was at any point satisfied with this report or with these guidelines of the Border River Agreement. In that sense, we actually had only one objective at the time of the report: we must try to reach a compromise that is generally acceptable at least in some way. But I would stress that all those who were in contact with us wanted this agreement not to enter into force. No one was happy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u157	Mr President! I do agree with Mr Hassi that, in a way, one way of solving this problem for the Saami people from out-of-town areas is by taking greater account — and should be taken more into account in the future — of the fact that these fishing rights have come as an inheritance. Now this is also very problematic for these Sámi who have inherited those fishing rights but have had to move out of the area for one reason or another. And now, in fact, if anyone moves within the European Union from abroad to live in France, for example, they get the right of residence, then their position is far better than that of someone who comes from that region and who inherited fishing rights as owner of the property and so on. There is also, I have to confess, the problem is that if you own a small property on the beach once those rights have been laid, how many days will you get fishing rights. If you have a property of less than two thousand euros, in practice this proposal will take the fishing right that is part of the property right to zero. If you get one day’s fishing license and happen to be a stormy or rainy day that you can’t use it, that’s it. There are many aspects of this agreement that are problematic. These were all dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and stated that these rights are now in conflict with each other: the rights of the Sami people, the right of ownership, which must be the right to fish, and also the protection of the environment, Article 21 of the Constitution, which assumes that everyone has the right to a clean environment. And here comes this conservation of fish stocks. These are all, to put it perfectly, in a situation of collusion, and we must try to resolve some sort of compromise. Unfortunately, this has not been the best success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u158	Mr President! When I have dealt very much with these Sámi, I have constantly received the message that the rights of the Sámi should be safeguarded, that the rights of the Sámi are now being destroyed. Then I have asked: What do these rights of the Saami mean? What do the rights of the Saami mean? After all, very few have been able to say what they mean. So it is a rather complex, bigger concept, and the problem may have been when this agreement and legislation were built and tried to put together: it was not possible to say what the rights of the Saami were. I hope and ask that we find someone who can help us now or someone who can write more precisely what they mean by the rights of the Sami people. It was here that we talked about how these rights of the Sami people would be safeguarded in the future, for example with regard to this Teno agreement, at the time when, among other things, these regulations were to be corrected. At that point we would have such a listing, a text, which means these rights of the Sami people. Finally, I would like to say to myself once again that I hope we can get these things rolling and spinning so that next summer I will be able to taste what the salmon from the Teno River tastes like.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u159	Madam President! Yes, I must say that Mr Eestilä put into words what has been here. And when we go inside these rights, fortunately, the committee in its report pointed out that the Land Surveying Board must now have sufficient resources to complete this on our land surveying issues. After all, when, since 72 C.E., these things have been done, it has been an exceptionally bad way for the state administration to make the citizens of the rights involved in these holdings their way. Fortunately, however, this report was also raised by the committee and it is hoped that Mrs Wallin's section will then make it easier to get this issue out of the way. And probably next week we will have these property rights again — to whom they belong and what kind — at Hossa National Park to consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u160	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative. We can now decide on possible statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u161	Mr President! The debate around the folded index with the citizens' initiative to remove it has been hot not only among pensioners but also elsewhere, but also within the walls of this house. Last week, when the committee adopted a report rejecting the initiative, I presented the so-called mid-term index, which has also been raised and considered fair by a number of experts who have come to the committee. Amongst other things, experts in the insurance sector — actuarialian, social security policy professor and doctor of social sciences Olli Pusa and Director General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Professor of Statistics Tarmo Pukkila, who was head of the insurance department — have also presented the mid-term index as a viable alternative in the long term. Unfortunately, this was not supported in this house either. Instead of just talking, we would have had to act. Values and attitudes very much affect how we deal with matters and what we try to take forward. Before and after the parliamentary elections, I have often said that the customer, the patient, must be put back at the centre. Doctors should treat more patients than screens or statistics. The euro must be focused primarily on customers and adequate staff, not on systems. Unfortunately, with regard to pensioners and the system of pension funds, it seems that the focus is on the system and pension funds, which, unfortunately, are to many people like a sacred cow, which must not be touched. At the same time, the people themselves — pensioners, current and future pensioners — have been sidelined, despite all the fine speeches. We are therefore talking about a large number of people who have largely built up the welfare of this country and for whom we are and will always owe a great deal of money. During this term of government, a number of measures have been taken against the most vulnerable, low-income pensioners. Despite the harsh economic situation, pensioners should not be put on the payroll. The livelihoods of pensioners must be ensured and, in particular, the living conditions of the most low-income pensioners must be improved. The statistics of the Finnish Centre for Pensions show that nearly one third of pensioners, a total of 430,000 people, have fallen below the official poverty line in Finland. The European Union's defined poverty limit in Finland is EUR 1190 for a single person and EUR 1785 per month for a two-year-old household. According to the calculations of the Finnish Social and Health Association (SOSTE), 5000 new people fall below the poverty line as a result of austerity decisions and at the same time a large number fall to the poverty line. The lowest incomes are especially among older and single-lived women. Men’s occupational pensions are on average higher than women’s occupational pensions. At the end of 2015, the difference in paid occupational pensions was more than EUR 580 for men. The average employment pension for women was EUR 1167 per month and for men EUR 1750 per month. The differences are due to longer working careers for men and higher pay levels for women. This gap must be addressed, as these women have done an important job in promoting the well-being of the family and children. Society must give this work the value it deserves. Many, many citizens, especially older women, who receive less than EUR 1000 per month and less than EUR 800 per month, have done significant work for the well-being of the family and children — that is, for the well-being of society as a whole. Who normally gets along with this money in today's Finland? Many people have to try to get along with this — even if I stand on bread lines and line up for the social services. For many elderly people, this is so humiliating that they try to do the arts otherwise. The genuine need for low-income pensioners must be addressed. If there is room for will in Parliament, we do have different options to improve the situation of pensioners. I therefore propose that Parliament adopt the following statement: "The government requires that preparations be made for a substantial increase in guarantees, national and small disability pensions, both in order to reduce the tax burden on small pensions, and that the government initiate negotiations to review the content of the so-called cost-of-living basket in order to better reflect the cost of living for pensioners and to clarify the possibilities for pensioners to reduce the essential service charges and increase the benefits." In addition, as a second statement, I propose that the government should start discussions with a view to achieving a one-off increase in small occupational pensions and that the government should engage in dialogue with pension companies in order to promote good care for the ageing population and, in particular, domestic investment and investment programmes promoting the well-being of the poor pensioners. The word 'one time' here does not mean that one time the pension is paid at a higher rate and then goes back to the old one, but that at one time there will be a significant increase, and then there will be an increase in the index. Pension funds currently have some EUR 190 billion in money. According to Dr. Olli Pusa, pension funds are hugely larger than what was estimated to be necessary to create the system. They are Finland's largest fund concentrations, and their dominance in Finnish society is already unhealthyly high. It is estimated that EUR 120 billion of the assets of the funds are in foreign investment. It can be considered that EUR 120 billion has been decoupled from the Finnish economy and transferred to finance foreign business activities. This is such a large sum of money that using a small fraction of it already for good domestic investment in the care of the ageing population and especially for the welfare of poor pensioners would be of great importance to many elderly people. I hope that these statements will be supported and that in the vote many will choose action instead of mere words. Our seniors deserve our help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u162	Mr President! It is good that the livelihoods of pensioners, both present and future, have been brought to a broad debate here in Parliament as well. I myself signed this citizens' initiative and have always voted in favour of the correction of the indexes in all parliamentary votes, and the recent policy of the left-wing union on pension policy does not rule it out. However, I do not understand why the citizens' initiative was based on a full wage index. If the starting point had been the mid-term index, the pressure in Parliament would have been probably tougher and the opponents of the initiative would have been tougher. But I was thinking of talking about what has been said less during the whole process, that is, about the power of corporations. As soon as the citizens' initiative came out, pension companies and corporate representatives on their boards began to frenzy against the initiative and the correction of the indexes, as they have always done before. Time and again, corporate representatives told us when what is impossible or unrealistic. In this respect, it has been exactly the same, and the same thing is said about which side of the labour market. Elite is also a pension elite, and I am not talking about pensioners, but about those who sit on top of other people's money on a big salary. Pension companies and organisations have built a kind of cartel in the only true truth, and the parties are obliged to comply with their will. When the time span is long enough, at least for decades, you can say almost anything. Showing the truth is considerably more difficult. It has been most repulsive to see how lightly the poor of tomorrow’s day are set against the poor. Those who have wanted to ignore the initiative have only wanted to listen to one true truth that has been repeated in public. For example, an actuary, a doctor and an expert such as Olli Pusa’s alternative calculations have been sought to be completely ignored and silent. His expertise, his experience, I'm sure no one in this Chamber can deny. Pusa says, among other things, "The end result in the future is absolutely appalling. Finland is dominated by a couple of pension companies whose balance sheet is of the same size as Finland’s gross domestic product. And this development is already being promoted by various parties with amazing obedience." Why, then, has this happened? Employment pension companies manage pension funds, a huge mass of assets. They want to hold on to their power and not voluntarily give up anything. For the national economy as a whole, it is essential where pension funds are invested, in the home country or abroad, in what kind of companies and with what risks and profit expectations, whether they are invested morally, ethically and economically in a sustainable manner. Mr President! There's a lot of seniors out there, too. There are well-off pensioners whose monthly pension may be more than someone else’s annual income. Then there are those who do not get along, not even after a long career. Even more difficult is the situation for those whose careers have been incomplete and broken. If poverty is to be addressed, effective measures are needed immediately, including an increase in the level of guarantees and national pensions, a new form of coordination of small occupational pensions and national pensions and a correction of the tax treatment of pensions, but also a fairer index system that prevents the emergence of new and new groups of pensioners who are poor. The wrong index is a silent bandit who sneaks into a purse month after month and year after year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u163	Mr President! Poverty among the elderly is a real problem. Thirteen per cent of pensioners are low incomes, equal to the average of the total population. However, poverty among pensioners is the highest among those living alone. The highest number of low-income pensioners is among those aged over 75, of whom one in four, 25 per cent, is low-income. As many as 27% of women living alone are low incomes. Statistical data that on average the purchasing power of pensioners is slightly higher than the European average or that the income gap between pensioners is lower than the EU average, does not give much comfort to the situation of a low-income pensioner. Poverty among pensioners is a problem in Finland and solutions need to be found. For many pensioners, a guarantee pension or national pension and a small earnings-related pension are not enough to secure even basic income; in addition to the pension, housing allowance or even income support must be used to run daily life. When a person has worked his or her age, many pensioners feel wrong and humiliating about having to apply for income support in addition to his or her pension cover. Pensioners' livelihoods are made up of a whole. In addition to pension income, this includes other benefits, taxation and payments and services. In particular, the purchasing power of low-income pensioners has deteriorated in recent years. This isn't right. In a couple of years, the increase in the guarantee pension has also been eaten away when other solutions are taken into account. It is a question of long-term development. Poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems that need to be addressed. The best way to improve the position of the most low-income pensioners is to increase the guarantee pension and improve the level of national pension without weakening the indexes at the same time. Reducing taxation is also an effective means of improving income. Of course, this does not help the least-incomed. Good ways to improve the position of a low-income pensioner are also the reduction of service charges and caps, the improvement of the level of reimbursement of medicines, the development of housing allowance and the development of care support for pensioners, quite the opposite of what the government has done. We Social Democrats agree with the committee's view that transforming the employment pension index into a full wage index is not a viable solution for improving the position of low-income pensioners, but we have protested because we believe that the report does not adequately address the issue of pensioners' poverty and the safeguarding of the livelihood of low-income pensioners. We therefore made a statement, a statement in which the committee would have required a programme of measures from the government to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. However, this was not shared by the government parties. That is why we tabled an objection in committee, and that is why I am now presenting a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1 at this second reading as well. Mr President! Poverty and low income for pensioners must be recognised, and solutions are needed to facilitate the position of pensioners in order to secure a reasonable income. We call for an action programme to be drawn up quickly by the government to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. It is regrettable that the government parties could not agree with this view. It is unfortunate for the people who signed the citizens' initiative, who, with their determined work, managed to raise the income of poor pensioners and pensioners receiving a small pension to a strong public debate. It is also regrettable for all those low-income pensioners who have been waiting for this parliamentary debate on the citizens' initiative. Therefore, while an index change under the citizens' initiative is not a solution to the livelihood of low-income pensioners, we believe it is very important that we consider ways and can take joint decisions to facilitate the daily livelihood of low-income pensioners. The livelihood of pensioners is a whole in which one cure cannot fix every problem, but requires a number of different measures. That is why I have tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1. In other words, we object in the statement: "The government requires that a programme of measures be drawn up quickly to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. Particular attention should be paid to the position of older women and those receiving small occupational pensions. As part of the package, the options for raising the national pension level and changing taxation, as well as the impact of housing allowance, services and service charges for pensioners, should be examined. The programme will be submitted to Parliament as a report in autumn 2017. " Mr President! The low income of pensioners is a fact that can be influenced by political decisions. We Social Democrats have now opened the debate and put forward various ways of improving the position of pensioners. Although the government does not want to draw up a programme of measures that we propose to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners, we still expect the government to take up this offer of cooperation in one way or another and bring its own options clearly to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u164	Mr President! I'd like to say thank you again. Kimmo to Kiljunen and the citizens' initiative makers. Indeed, I see that this outcome is nevertheless a win-win for those who take the initiative. Why? Because it brought the poverty of pensioners and the injustice experienced by low-income pensioners into a wide public debate. Secondly, thanks to the Social Democrats, this initiative is also leading to results. In my opinion, the protest of the Social Democrats will save an important citizens' initiative to a respectable and worthy level. We should remember that there are tens of thousands of pensioners behind this initiative who have genuinely experienced this lack of pensioner poverty and the development of pensions. We have, ladies and gentlemen, nearly 900,000 pensioners receiving a small pension. Indeed, EUR 1500 a month is a small pension, and there are nearly 900,000 such pensioners. I believe that this citizens' initiative will leave a big mark on future pension debates. And I would like to say a little critically that, with all due respect for the work done by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, without this profound, thorough protest from the Social Democrats, there would have been an impression that the committee's position is, in some way, like the speech made by a pension expert on the pension system in our country. I mean, I thought it was a little inanimate. I have been pleased that the Confederation of Pensioners has already entered into the debate when, alongside this action on the poverty programme, we want to intervene and influence small occupational pensions. In fact, the will mode is to raise their level. I personally see here that we want to move these two things forward: the poverty programme, the binding programme of measures, and the improvement of the status of those receiving a small pension. This EKL presentation is interesting in such a way that they have this kind of indexation model for occupational pensions, which would consist of a fixed percentage adjustment and a fixed part of euro that comes on top of it. In other words, two thirds of the increase reserve would go to the euro revision and one third to the percentage amendment. And what is most interesting, according to a study commissioned by the Association of Pensioners’ Lobbys in 2016 at TNS Gallup, this objective of the EKL index model received huge support for the party, regardless of age or other background variables. Of all the respondents, 86 per cent were in full or somewhat in agreement with the claim. Mr President! So it is easy for me now to support Mrs Eloranna's motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u165	Madam President! First of all, I too would like to thank all these citizens' initiative makers, designers, signatories and name-collectors, because the fact is that, without this citizens' initiative, we would not be discussing the situation of pensioners today. However, I must say that I wonder a little about why the Social Democrats left Comrade Kimmo Kiljunen alone with their initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u168	Mr President! Thank you for your constructive contribution. One detail, however, was that I wanted to comment on it. I myself have signed this citizens' initiative under the name of Kiljune with the idea — as I believe many others have done — that, in fact, its main objective has been to move gradually towards the mid-term index. And when I used the expression in my speech just now that it is a partial victory for the signatory, I specifically referred to the fact that this protest by the Social Democrats is intended to take an important step precisely in order to improve the position of those receiving a small pension. That's not exactly what it means, brother good, to be left alone with Comrade Kiljunen, really not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u169	Mr President! It must be borne in mind that the livelihood of pensioners is an entity in which one cure cannot solve an entire problem. It is quite often the case that these citizens' initiatives are dealt with in such a way that it is not possible to accept them just like that, but generally a broader explanation is needed in order to clarify different issues. I believe that this initiative has just succeeded well in this objective. Now we get this sort of thing, or at least our protestor thinks we should start off with a broad-based study, which explains all the different ways that affect the poverty of older people. In that sense, we have in no way turned our backs on those who have taken the initiative, but we very much appreciate the debate behind this. That I do not quite understand the proposal made by the representative that we have turned our backs. This is far from being the case, but quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u171	Mr President! It is admittedly a serious social problem, particularly in the case of the lowest pensions. Cost of living and rents in particular have risen rapidly. The cost of living causes problems for many low-income pensioners, especially in large growth centres. As far as prices of dwellings and housing are concerned, during this parliamentary term Parliament has made legislation on planning and land use considerably more flexible. The proposal to amend the Land Use and Building Act has also been discussed today. In the future, there should also be a debate on the acceptability of over-profits in public housing communities and the means to address them in order to moderate the rent level. Mr President! There are problems with livelihoods, especially for the most low-income pensioners. The indexation of occupational pensions would naturally increase large pensions in euros more than small ones. In addition, it should be taken into account that, in the event of the correction of the folded index, for persons receiving small occupational pensions, the national pension would be reduced by half of the increase. Therefore, the lowest-income pensioners would also have the lowest relative benefits. Of course, the model can be further developed in a fairer way. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for drawing attention in its report to the importance of improving the position of pensioners and the means which are best suited to it. For example, as mentioned in the report, the guarantee pension has already been significantly increased during this parliamentary term, making it easier for many pensioners to live. The Social Democrats also objected to the fact that the increase in the guarantee pension is the most appropriate measure to facilitate the position of low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u172	Mr President! I would say to Mr Gustafsson, Mrs Eloranna and the other Social Democrats that, as the Social Democrats have spoken and spoken a lot, the Christian Democrats have put forward practical measures. We know that if the folded index had not been introduced, we would not now have so many pensioners' poverty. As I said in my speech, last week I presented the mid-term index as the basis for the discussion. It would have been an improvement on the current situation, and even though the Chamber was almost half-baked by the Social Democrats, no one — no social democrat — supported the mid-term index. Now, in their statement, the Social Democrats are proposing a programme of measures and studies, that is to say, they are calling for a report, which should be brought to Parliament in the autumn. At the same time, however, we Christian Democrats put forward concrete measures to improve the situation of pensioners, in particular pensioners with low incomes, which I proposed and the other Christian Democrat, Antero Laukkanen, supported. In other words, on this basis, I absolutely cannot accept the idea that the Social Democrats have, as it were, taken this citizens' initiative forward or as a follow-up to it. Of course, it's good to make reports and sort things out, but like I said last week: With a lot of information on pensioner poverty and the situation of the elderly in general, I would see that we already need to take more practical action, start using time and hands to shape practical measures that will improve the situation of pensioners on a practical basis. The reports, of course, are good, but I think it is time to take practical action, and that is what we are trying to do. The statements are available on your website and contain a number of practical measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u173	Mr President! It is true that, here in Parliament, it is not possible to make a decision with very small explanations, but whenever things are changed, it must be based on the preparation of officials in the Ministry, and things must be clarified in a broad sense and in view of many things. It is very important that Parliament makes decisions in this way. As far as the increase in the guarantee pension is concerned — which is a good thing in itself, but it is unfortunate that the government has taken other measures to eat the effects of this good decision — last year you introduced a fall in the national pension index of 0.4%, and indeed this year you cut the national pension index by 0.25% and froze it for the next three years. In other words, a good decision to increase the guarantee pension will be eaten up in this way, that in that sense it will soon be striking these good decisions that the government has made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u174	Mr President! With all due respect for Mr Tanus's proposals, it is of course a fundamental difference if the Socialist Group in Parliament, together with the committee group, proposes and is committed to improving the status of people receiving a small pension and also the position of the poorest pensioners, in accordance with its decision at the party meeting. If I have understood correctly, then Mr Tanus has neither the support of his own party nor his parliamentary group, but we will see that now. But as I said — I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u175	Mr President! Throughout the decades, the Christian Democrats have had one heart: the weaker, the less fortunate, the less fortunate, the side-by-side, the helping. In that sense, it seems rather strange that Mr Gustafsson, an experienced Member of Parliament, is making such statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u179	Madam President! This is a huge emotional debate in the sense that no party in this Chamber has done enough for pensioners. Everyone has said enough about pensioners. Everyone has expressed their own views on how things would improve. But not a single party has done enough, neither Christian nor anyone else, for pensioners today to have the situation of feeling worthy of themselves and their lives. This is what I want to discuss. I also understand that Mr Kiljune's citizens' initiative might not have been the best way to go, but its aim was genuine and sincere and could have been taken up by the committee and the Social Democrats could have grasped that support for the spirit of the citizens' initiative, perhaps altering the actual proposal, but supporting it. This did not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u180	Madam President! The citizens' initiative to remove the folded index and return to the earnings-related index is, in my view, hindsight talk about the situation in which pensioners in Finland have fallen into. In my view, Mr Gustafsson's behaviour in this matter is the best illustration of the problem: Mr Gustafsson has just made his own contribution — and I followed this debate with great enthusiasm in my office — and he has signed this initiative but then again denied it in committee. Of course, the advantage is that, when you speak in the polls, you can say in one place that I supported this initiative absolutely, and then when you go to another place, if you get some turbulent feedback, you can say that I did not support it, because I in committee denied this. A gentleman in his day, 2,000 years ago, three times denied to believe what the real gentleman was. — But seriously. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u183	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen spoke very well about the situation. It's been really confusing to me. When the initiative came, the huge influx of pensioners' organisations, lobbying and so on began, but as an alternate member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I did not get to the table this time, as I almost always did, so to speak, that I could have already presented the mid-term index there. I did expect very much of the Social Democrats, who were sitting around the table with the strength of several women and men, to present a mid-term index, because they had talked a lot about it and also asked experts about it, and the experts had also raised this point in their statements, but how can it be that there was no proposal? Then there will be a different kind of performance, and as if they are still taking things forward. Yes, there is a feeling that a little depending on the time and place and the situation around us and people are being talked about in a great many different ways. But Mr Hoskonen described the situation quite well. What I would like to say to Mrs Antero Laukkanen is that she spoke wisely. It is often said in the group that Antero Laukkanen often speaks wisely, and again this evening in the Chamber he spoke very wisely and hit the heart when he said that no party has done enough for pensioners — no party, not this year, not this season, not last season, not during the previous seasons. If the parties had done enough for pensioners — for those who have actually built, initiated and largely pushed forward the welfare of this country, for those people without whom we would not have the welfare state of today; for those people, no party has really done enough — we would not have such a huge group of pensioners' poverty. It is a disgrace in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u184	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen's speech contained so many good elements that I would venture to hope that he would quite take it and multiply it and distribute it to all the representatives of the city centre and make the right group decision that this matter for pensioners will be put into practice in accordance with his speech. It would be a great Finland 100 Years celebration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u185	Mr President! I would like to ask for the floor just to say thank you to all those elderly people who have worked hard with the citizens' initiative, not only with the citizens' initiative, but also with others who have tried to help improve pensioner poverty and the situation of pensioners in general. We are trying to push forward and do what we can to improve the situation, but, as has been said, cooperation is of course needed here. Unfortunately, for the time being, the Christian Democrats are at least a small party, hopefully much bigger after the next elections, but there are parties in this House and in this Parliament to work with, and I am delighted about that. I would like the parties to be able to address this issue on a wider front, even if now by supporting these statements, by taking concrete steps forward within the government to improve the situation of pensioners and, in particular, the situation of poor, low-income pensioners. In time, our seniors have done so much for the well-being of this country and all of us that in the year of Finland’s 100th birthday, I think it would be right and reasonable for us to do what is best for them. In time, they have done so much that they deserve our help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u186	Madam President! Finally, for my part, I would like to say that I have a great deal of respect for the people who have signed this initiative. I very much believe that they have acted with good faith and hoped for improvement. But I am also afraid that not all signatories have been told what is at the heart of this Finnish pension problem, to those of the most low-income pensioners who do not benefit from this initiative, and then, in a way, they have been misled, who thought that there could be an improvement here. Well, anyway, it's good that things are being discussed, but I don't think it's very good to mislead people. It is not a credit to Parliament either if it is implied that this is the way it would have been done, even though it would have been impossible in fact to do so. But the old folk wisdom in this matter is also true: What one throws behind it is found in front of it. I think that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u187	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 3/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u188	Madam President! During the discussion of this proposal, an interesting issue emerged which deserves to be mentioned here. It is that this proposal is based on the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 10 November 2016. When much is said about Finland's independence and our relationship with the EU and the level of the EU's influence on Finland and the kind of decisions that will eventually come down from there to Finnish law, this is a very good example of the fact that the decisions of the courts, made in November, have already been discussed here, and the Finnish court practice is being shaped on the basis of this presentation. That is all, this is a very simple and small and good thing, as the committee has said. But the European Union's guidance on Finland's life is very strong and significant. This independence of ours is really far too much to discuss.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u189	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 3/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-21-ps-26.u190	Madam President! In its history, the financing law for sustainable forestry has been a patchwork that has always been patched up from there and here, and now we are certainly in a situation where this government proposal and the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have also become a bit of a patchwork again. It is a good thing that this problem also disappears, that these small details can indeed be improved with regard to the management of the young forest and the related subsidies. But the big problem is that we currently have a herring salad that does not make much sense. The worst conclusion in this matter is that the forestry industry has, through the Commission, lobated a package in which the same subsidies are received for the application from Russia in Finland, which means support for electricity produced by the wood chips and, in the same way, this compensation for emissions trading, which amounts to approximately EUR 100 million in total. At the same time, Finland’s small sawmills, bits and barks remain in the yard piles to leave, and Russian chips cross the border by cars transported by Russians, and then the Finnish state will pay a subsidy to them. This is a bloody injustice that I believe should be corrected and immediately. The fact that the Kemera Act is being slightly fine-tuned is a good proposal, of course, but I do not want to oppose it, but this situation seems absurd to me in some way that we here are going to be filing a small comma, and at the same time the application from Russia will stop small sawmilling from this country and the use of renewable energy from our own forests, which would add value to Finnish society. Now it is going to flow beyond the border, and the forestry industry will be able to catch EUR 100 million more from it, even if there is much more use for that money in this country. I would also like to say a little about the patriotism of the forestry industry, which they themselves are calling for so much. Would this be a place for big forest bosses to think about a little bit?
