ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Tuula Haatainen and 70 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government about the Government's social and health care reform on VK 2/2017 vp. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u2	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u3	Mr President! Forests have been a central source of our well-being for more than a hundred years before independence, and that is what they are today. At the same time, forest management is supported in many ways. There is also a reasonable advisory system on how forest management is to be carried out. What matters is that we have the assurance that existing forests, private forests, will be well managed and the right forest management measures will also be taken within the deadline, so that logging can also be carried out properly. Flexibility is also needed in this system. These are good things in themselves. But then I come to this big issue of forest use: how do we get the maximum benefit of this raw material resource that is important to us, renewable material, and that the use of forests would be managed in such a way that the maximum amount of this money could remain in Finland. This gives cause to wonder that this trend, which is now going well — the use of forests, the use of wood for energy — does not in itself represent the best possible alternative to cover, so I dare hope that when we talk about sustainable forestry, we will be able to think about it from the perspective of the whole, so that the income from the use of forests in this country will be as much as possible and that the knowledge of the whole chain can be used. It is important then that we consider that support measures, and in particular this support, which is directed at both forest management and harvesting, do not lead to a situation in which forests and wood are used for very low productivity. That is what I would like to draw attention to when dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u4	Madam Speaker! This amendment to the financing law on sustainable forestry — once again one change, but particularly justified — is now reducing the implementation time of the project to one year when it does not commit us and we will not come to the point where we have the end of the granting powers and the incentives that are necessary and existing and widely accepted would not be made available. This is a good legal reform in that sense. This was unanimously accepted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and now submitted to the plenary for approval. Here, too, the one to whom this comes is glorified. In other words, these funds and these types of operators are now excluded, and this is all the more so now being directed towards the private forestry sector, which is increasingly expanding: new forest owners, urban forest owners and remote forest owners, and so on. This also seeks to draw attention to the fact that forests are managed on time and take the measures necessary to achieve that valuable trunk tree. That is a very important issue. It must be borne in mind that the energy wood that comes with Kemera, for example, is a by-product — it is a completely by-product. When forests are managed, they produce a product that is not suitable for anything else, and it is highly justified that it should be directed to energy use. Also — and this is not much to do with it — forest industry by-products produce a very large number of components that are wise to use for final energy use. Of course, it is always important that we seek the form of product that gives us the greatest added value, that we create work in this country and that we create a livelihood and a trade balance, that we improve the current account. A high degree of breeding is always the goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u5	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma drew my attention to an important issue. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has now started preparing a report specifically on the energy and climate strategy. This debate has concerned us with the need to use forest resources as much as possible for the import and export of high-processing products, and in this sense fibrewood and lumber must be used for this purpose. This debate also has to do with the fact that, on the bioeconomy side, of course, progress must be made, but these mixing obligations can be quite tough. In this respect, care must be taken to ensure that we have sufficient forest wood specifically for high-processing production. And once again, the maintenance of forests must be taken care of because this carbon sink remains with us here in Finland. I would pay particular attention to one sector: it is the plight of the saws and the use of their bites. The bites stand on the saws, and something should be done to make the shells better for them, too, for further use. This is a point worth paying attention to. The speech by the hay Creator was very important here to put things in order. High-processing exports must be promoted, and forest resources primarily for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u6	Mr President! I am quite representative of Heinäluoma and Ihalainen on the line here when it comes to the energy use of wood. I hope that the President will allow me to think of another idea of this, which is related to the processing of wood, which I think is very important at the moment also at national level, and it is, of course, the construction of wood. In Finland, we have a lot of strengths and expertise in this. I have found with joy that over the last few years we have found more and more to use these strengths and have started to promote wood construction. In this connection, I also wanted to take this opportunity to remind you that all the obstacles and other things that may stand in the way must be seen and, therefore, made sure that we are also able to make use of our own resources and know-how.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u7	Mr President! This sustainable forestry is really important, and perhaps we should start by thinking that sustainable forestry should include directing the use of wood to products that are as high in processing as possible. If this is done, then we can create a situation in which the money used, for example, through forestry support measures, could be multiplied in this country. But if you find yourself in a situation where wood is burned or used in the form of fuel, it is clear that when burned and gased, it will not be of great benefit. This sustainable forestry approach does require more work and processing for us. We have previously spoken here about the fact that we in the European Union are having great difficulties in getting the European Union countries to understand the thinking of Finland, who has managed the forest well. I believe that for this understanding of the European Union, too, the fact that wood is processed as far as possible is being exploited would also be one way of achieving this wider understanding. It may also be asked whether we should not, as Mr Viitanen referred to here, also devote more attention to the further processing of wood. After all, we are also doing this by exporting wood to Denmark as raw material and then getting it back from Denmark, processed into furniture. Perhaps there is still a lot of work to be done in this whole chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u8	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma raised a very important issue. Now that we still have these climate objectives and a lot of demands on that side and then at the same time we see that we have left, you can say, from the Äänekoski shot again — and in the past — investments in the use of forests are very much to be expected. And it is in this situation that two things are important. The first is, just as the previous representatives have said, that we must invest in the products of the highest value added. The principle behind the development of aid schemes must be not to block the pot, Mr President. "Nouns on the boiler" is the principle that Finland is only living from the highest level of processing. Well, then another important point is that sustainable forestry is part of – and Finland has succeeded in doing this – the fact that we have had forest peace in Finland for a long time. It is important that this is maintained so that there is a view for industry and for this sector. And in this regard, at the end of last year, there was a rather exceptional situation where even the forest industry appealed to the government that, in the name of this forest peace, the government should increase these Metso forest protection funds. It is important that we in Finland manage forests sustainably, they are used responsibly and sustainably, and at the same time it is important that we are able to protect valuable forests. And when you can say that the entire sector from the forest industry to the MTK has appealed to the Government to reconsider these reductions in the Metso programme, then here, Mr President, there would be a hint to the representative of the government party Leppä that this would be a yes, you could say, a place to review this. You may not have to cancel the whole decision, but at least some of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u9	Mr President! We have a mega-class issue ahead of us, and that is what has already been raised here in good speeches, that is, whether the use of forests in Finland is understood in the European Union, the sustainability that we have been building for over a hundred years. It is proven and studied, and together we have hard work to prove that there. But I believe that researched knowledge, specifically researched knowledge, objective knowledge, science will be taken as a basis there and we will go, and then we will be strong. That is something we must certainly achieve. Second point: It is quite clear that the level of processing in the forest industry must rise. It must not be stagnant, not to mention that it will fall, but it must rise all the time. That is why we also have to invest in research, product development, training, with new products, success products and success stories coming from our excellent raw material. President! Third, last sighting of this voluntary protection system in Metso. I agree: Metso is an extremely good way both to maintain forest peace and to preserve the valuable forest species environments we have. This has been widely addressed in forest owners' circles. It is true that it is good to re-evaluate this. This unfortunate cut that has been made is, of course, the result of the fact that our financial carrying capacity is what it is. Fortunately, however, the money did not run out, but now there is a place to increase it. I agree now that this should be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u10	Now it's already the time that...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-24-ps-29.u11	Mr President! Thank you so much for your flexibility. — I had to try again because I would have liked to thank Mr Leppää for saying that there is still an opportunity to re-evaluate these Metso cuts. I wish you the strength to do this, because we certainly have a common goal here, and the alternative budget of the Social Democrats has also taken these into account. I am pleased that you have taken this catch and I thank you for your contribution.
