ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u2	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u3	Mr President! The best interests of the child are a principle that we legislators should always give priority to. On Monday, on the day of children’s rights, a thousand social workers approached the decision-makers with a petition calling for urgent action to remedy the tragic situation in child protection. Far too many children and young people are left without the help they need, families are left without support. Minister Saarikko, the family minister's number one priority must always be to defend children and young people and families. According to the recommendation, one social worker should have only 30 children under his responsibility, but in reality there is talk of double, even triple, number. The situation is untenable. In your reply to a petition from a thousand social workers, you said that it was a difficult matter to put the issue of dimensioning into order. Why do you find it difficult to help the most vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u4	Mr President! Mr Guzenina, during your term of responsibility in these same boots a few years ago, you were responsible for these same themes, and I would like to acknowledge that during your period, Finnish child welfare progressed in a fine way, the quality recommendations for child protection were drawn up during your time. At that time there was also a huge tragedy that awakened Finns to the problems of child protection, and you set up Aulikki Kananoja, a working group of over-social counselling, which we appreciated, to consider how child protection should be developed. This led, among other things, to an improvement in the Social Welfare Act, and the Kanan-oja Group also assessed this issue of human resources, which I have now decided to clarify further. During your term in office, the Kananoja report stated that the establishment of the human resources is not an unambiguous issue, and therefore perhaps it has not been implemented in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and register by pressing the V button. — — — — Now, Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u6	Mr President! I thank Minister Saarikko for his very constructive answer. During the last term of government in November 2014, you, Minister Saarikko, as Vice-President of the Central Party, promised at the meeting of the Central Party Council that child protection should be measured by the number of children to be taken over by one social worker. Now that you are the minister of responsibility in this matter, you understandably say that it is difficult to put things right, but, as you yourself pointed out, during the last period we demars did that preparatory work to make it easier for things to move forward during this regime. The working group to which you yourself referred worked in addition to Aulikki Kananoja, among others Jari Sinkkonen and Matti Rimpelä. Their expertise is appreciated throughout Finland. Can you tell me, Minister, when they put forward 54 proposals for measures, how many of these proposals for measures have moved forward during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u7	Mr President! As the representative states in his question, this issue of human resources, that is, how many children can be held responsible for the social work of one social worker in Finland, was first assessed, I believe, at the level of the ministry's working group, at the very time in 2013, when you were in charge of this task, and the experts you mentioned at the time, all of whom enjoyed our appreciation, said that it was not unambiguous to set this dimension. I dug up that report, they say: "The conditions of municipalities, the organisation of child protection and the functioning of other services for children and families affect the burden of child protection and its targeting on the social worker responsible for the child's affairs." Therefore, the situation in different municipalities is very different. And it is quite true — I do not dispute that statement, on the contrary I am genuinely concerned — that in larger and smaller municipalities the public debate has been strongly around large cities, but also in smaller municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u8	Mr President! Who among us would talk about the most difficult things in his life, including a lot of shame, to a completely foreign person? And who would do it over and over again because the workers change so often and intensively? It's what we expect the children of child welfare to do. In child welfare, it is important to establish a confidential relationship with the child and his or her parent. It is the only way to see and hear what really happens in the family. Today, child protection work cannot be done well everywhere, because the workload is far too high, as the Minister has already said. One worker should create this confidential relationship with up to 60 or 80 children. We all understand that this cannot be possible. Now, Minister, are you prepared to register the maximum number of children per employee?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u9	Mr President! I will reply directly to the last question. I would like to clarify this and, if that is the case, I will take it very seriously precisely because this report by the experts did not, without any doubt, support it as a solution to this complex problem, and I am sure everyone will recognise it. I cannot directly suggest that this would be the solution if long-term experts who have been involved in child protection work for decades have not fully supported it and put forward it. But as far as the whole that you mentioned is concerned, Mr Salonen, I feel a certain, boldness to say that this government has also allocated EUR 10 million per year in additional money to the municipalities and has not taken away any money from the municipalities’ state contributions — that is to say, the possibility of putting more resources into child protection work, which is undoubtedly needed, by the state. There are many municipal decision-makers here, including you, Mr Salonen, and I believe that in most Finnish municipalities there is room for action in that government
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u10	Mr President! I warmly thank Minister Saarikko for having taken seriously this issue, which was much on the agenda during the last parliamentary term. I remember very well when, following this incident in Little Erika, a topical debate was held here on the development of child protection and the recommendations of the Aulikki Kananoja Group. I myself have taken many initiatives to improve child protection in the ten years I have been a Member of Parliament, and I have come to the conclusion that the right way would be to register the maximum number of customers in the law, because it does not seem otherwise to be corrected. I do not know how to put this as a question, but perhaps I would ask that Minister Saarikko, are you really prepared to fight in the government for an increase in funding for child protection this period in such a way that this entry can be made into the law? I mean, without the money, it's pretty empty.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u11	Mr President! Fortunately, I do not have to fight on my own because it has been the will of the entire government when starting the government's work, and it is precisely to help this acute situation that additional money has been agreed in the negotiations for child protection, that form of work for children and families. Another important element is the supervision which, now that a new supervisory authority is being created in Finland, is the possibility of seeing more assistance in time. But I would like to suggest, if I may, that this debate on child protection could also expand to reflect on the preventive measures that will bring us to figures that do not appear to be the case with regard to the custody of an individual worker or, for example, Finnish children. Then you turn to the Government’s programme for changing child and family services and multiprofessional cooperation and that, for example, municipal home assistance, support for families’ everyday life can be obtained in every Finnish municipality without the stigma of the child protection declaration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u12	Mr President! That is a good answer from the Minister. If such a thing happens that home support and assistance is provided where it is necessary without a child protection report, this is the right step in the right direction. This has also been mentioned in this Chamber for several years. However, I would have asked the ministers how these marginalised young people and children can be supported in a more concrete way. Many children have mental health problems even before they turn 25, let alone 18. Such 25% suffer in some ways from varying degrees of problems, and these subsidies are usually a little late in some municipalities and do not receive such support in good time. I would also like to ask how we could, in a way, reward the municipalities for catching up with all of them by means of various forms of marginalisation and falling young people. For example, many young people fall from education precisely because during early childhood education or during schooling, such support has not been received or has been inadequate. What practicality are you doing for these young people and children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u13	Mr President! The programme of changes in child and family services, which we call Lapland, is largely cross-administrative in that it also has a strong impact on education and early childhood education. A general observation, but perhaps not taken into account in Finnish social and health policy for children and young people, is that these children are encountered daily in Finnish day-care centres, comprehensive schools and at secondary level. Services should go where the children and families are otherwise. If a child’s child’s play-age clinic reaches them once a year, the family in the hall of the day-care centre is met every morning and afternoon when the child is brought and taken. That is why it is now at the heart of this concept of service that truly multi-professional structures are being built and thus support the work of school and early childhood education people, so that it multi-professional support for child growth, support for parenthood and the well-being of families will be there,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u14	Mr President! The crisis in child protection is about how social safety nets work for the most vulnerable Finns, and that is why this issue must be put right. The problem here is that despite the increase in national resources, despite the improvements made in terms of quality recommendations and despite the fact that more effort has been made on prevention, this too great workload for social workers and these problems relating to the under-resource of municipal services have continued. That is why, at this latest exit, child welfare workers are now demanding and hoping for decisions from the government and Parliament to use the steering tools that we have in order to obtain a legal ceiling for customers who can be held responsible by a single social worker. So my question to the Minister is: is the government really prepared to use legislation as a steering tool,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u15	Mr President! Since the previous extensive report on child protection from a few years ago does not give an unambiguous answer so that it solves everything, I cannot directly support the fact that this is the way. I am also afraid that if we are only discussing the human resources dimension, we will forget all the other measures that can be just as impressive. These include, for example, work-sharing issues, competence and eligibility issues, the division of labour between social counselors and social workers in child protection and all forms of multi-professional cooperation. In fact, I am very hopeful about this programme of changes in child and family services, which focuses on prevention. Development work has also been carried out to improve cooperation between child welfare professionals. The results are promising. Individual municipalities, including Mäntsälä, if I remember the example correctly, have been able to save millions and it is through this, when the form of work has been developed, that the burden has been reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u16	Mr President! I myself was in that quality group for child welfare back in the day. It was an excellent group, and I strongly felt that these dimensional issues should be put right, but it just didn’t go through then. Now I still believe that this acute emergency needs to be answered, and I think it is an excellent thing that Minister Saarikko sets up a working group or now solves the problems of this dimension. If Sweden has been able to make this kind of decision on the law that there are 35 customers for child welfare workers, then I would imagine that we too will be able to find answers after this investigation to whether or not we can do this now. It is, in fact, a social failure if children and young people are therefore unable to receive help and their need cannot be answered. I do not think that we can do so in a civilised society, and now that acute emergency has come from many sides, just as personally we have been contacted, and it has been told and described. In my opinion, this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u17	Now, Minister Saarikko's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u18	Mr President! I think it was Mr Salonen's question, which raised not only the number of staff but also the second key problem: staff turnover. In small municipalities, too, the whole social work of a large number of people may be responsible for one or two people. The burden will then be great. We also need investments in working life, management and well-being at work, and thus also in a reasonable amount of work, not just in terms of personnel allocation. But Mr Paloniemi, who raised this quality recommendation: I stayed to think about the time it was realized. I recently received new materials from THL today, what is the situation in Finland today. In Finland, 6 per cent more child protection notifications have been made in 2016 than in 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u19	Mr President! The message of child welfare professionals must be taken very seriously, first of all because we are talking about the situation of children and families who are very vulnerable. Minister, you are talking about prevention, and I would like to ask about this future legislation on alcohol, which increases access from 350 to more than 3500 retail shops and kiosks, and expert assessments are unambiguously of the opinion that it has an impact on families and society. Would you see that this weakens the situation in child protection, and do you see that correction should be made in this regard? Would you see that dimensioning would be one way of bringing forward this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u20	Mr President! It is quite true that there are substance abuse problems, both alcohol and drug problems, mental health issues or, in other words, nothing but powerlessness, which has led to the reporting of a family in the case of a child or a young person. We also know of cases where the family itself ended up reporting itself in the face of a shortage of resources. It is precisely in these situations that all preventive aid should be more supportive. As far as the alcohol law is concerned, its final reading is in the hands of Parliament right now, and the impact assessments, which are critical for children and young people, are largely related to that increase in alcohol volume, i.e. one per cent. So I am not going to and cannot deny from here the effects of alcohol on Finnish children and young people and thus
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u21	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! The Ombudsman for Children, Tuomas Kurttila, has today criticised the government in the Morning TV for rejecting children in need of protection. We have also heard messages from Vantaa, Kuopio and Oulu that child protection is becoming more crowded and that social workers have far too many families under their responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u22	Mr President! With regard to these measures, the existing quality recommendation, which I am sure will need to be updated in due course, the new Social Welfare Act, whose effects are only gradually beginning to appear, and with regard to staffing, I have explained in previous replies. If, Mr President, I will use this time to say the latest figures for THL, also where we have succeeded. Firstly, the increase in the number of child protection notifications can also be seen as a success, because then we intervene and care and report. We have succeeded in reducing the number of children placed outside the home during the year — only 2%, but we are coming down in the figures. The number of children in custody during the year has also decreased by 2.5% and the number of children in emergency care has also decreased. We are still reading where more than 17,000 children are placed outside the home,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u23	Mr President! We all know that the problems of child welfare across the country are serious. However, here Minister Saarikko has described how the government is now working to ensure that fewer families end up under child protection measures, and that is very important. I'd like to ask the Minister: At what point will we all enjoy the results of this work? Will we wait until the whole work is completed, or would there be some measures that we might be able to take sooner?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u24	Mr President! An important question, and it is a pleasure to tell you that the work is happening all the time in different parts of Finland. The Government decided to implement the family service change programme at the starting points I have just mentioned in cooperation with schools and kindergartens, the clinics for young children at the heart of it, as a multiprofessional cooperation centre, precisely so that each of the 18 future provinces has already made their own migrant workers do these things in practice. And one dimension throughout Finland is also the development of child protection, its various forms — institutional care, family care and the everyday life of child welfare, which has been the subject of discussion here today — and it is precisely the multiprofessional approach used in Mäntsälä, which has now been introduced and piloted in various parts of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u25	Mr President! There are a lot of good measures in that programme for the change of services for children and families that can be warmly supported by the opposition, but there is a serious negative spiral in many municipalities at the moment, which means that there is a situation where the workload really is too great, the workers are exhausted and the industry is not attracting new workers. They'll have to hire incompetent people there. Not everyone will then be able to take the measures and decisions that belong to them. What will be done to attract new workers into the sector? Also: How, for example, could continuing training provide qualifications for incompetent workers? Perhaps this is where the Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen may be an expert.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u26	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for having the opportunity to tackle this important issue together during Question Time, and I consider the themes raised by Minister Saariko and the means of intervention to be extremely important. In particular, I would stress the preventive work and early intervention that what we can do to support families so that as few children as possible would then be placed outside the home and taken into care. In other words, the early intervention, prevention, plays a crucial role, and the education system can also help. With regard to these staff issues, there are quite correct findings that there is a high turnover in the sector and that the work is burdensome. On the other hand, what may be brought up is that it is difficult to imagine a more important job
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u27	Mr Guzenina, the first person to ask the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u28	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, you said you wanted to think about this again, to set up a working group. Now it is good for you to say in front of everyone that you no longer need a new working group. The 54 proposals for measures made by the working group of the last parliamentary term are also the solution to this human resources. The proposed measure 13 will be piloted around Finland in different municipalities, municipalities in different situations, different ways of working, which can also be used to define the national size of personnel. You said that you have read the final report of the Working Child Welfare Study Group. Perhaps you can also share it with other government ministers so that they too can get to know it and support your work in getting things right with child protection. This was not really a question, but maybe I'll ask you now:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u29	However, Minister Saarikko will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u30	Mr President! A rather challenging question to ask is whether I can guarantee from here that Finnish municipalities will do everything in their power to ensure that no worker in Finland has 80 children. Unfortunately, Mr Guzenina, I am not in a position to promise that, but I can promise you that those proposals from the Kananoja Group have, in fact, already been implemented in many respects as a quality recommendation and as a social welfare law. We are now going to be more specific in terms of staffing. One part of this Kananoja survey is based on the fact that local authorities define more precise time frames, how much one employee spends on the cause of one family or child. One solution here will also be the social welfare reform, in which the responsibilities of social care, which has been overshadowed even in this debate, are wider, division of labour and multi-professionalism can be done more. And as for these jobs that have been put into motion:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u31	The following questions will be dealt with much less.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u32	Next question, Mr Raatikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u33	Mr President! This week the City Board of Helsinki decided to propose to the council that the necessary medicines, free accommodation and food, the right not only to urgent medical treatment but also to the necessary medical care, monitoring, vaccination and oral health care are guaranteed for persons residing illegally. In addition, Helsinki will advertise these free services online in Arabic, Somali and Romanian. The city government's proposal undermines the credibility of the asylum procedure. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is absurd to provide non-legal, extended social and health services to illegal residents after a negative asylum decision. I would like to ask the minister concerned: is the government in favour of such measures? If not, what measures does the government intend to take to ensure that Finland is not subjected to an avalanche of treatment and to the presence of so-called paperless persons to burden social and health services that are already operating at extreme limits at the expense of taxpayers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u34	Mr President! I am responsible for the services of income support and the issues of Finnish health care, and I will therefore answer this question, which you may have extended to the wider issue of asylum seekers. The same question of the competence of municipal self-government is now at our disposal on this issue as on the subject we have just discussed. Finnish municipalities have the freedom to make such decisions, but under the law we offer only urgent assistance. In other words, it is inevitable that urgent assistance should be provided in a binding way in the field of health care, and it is also a matter for minors and pregnant people. So my message is: Finnish law does not oblige what has been done in Helsinki, but according to my understanding, Helsinki has the possibility of doing everything you described in your question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u35	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u36	Mr President! We are currently debating a change in the Social Welfare Act in Parliament, which involves the fact that those who have already had to leave the reception centre have a negative decision, even after complaints, entitled to essential and urgent social services, which means a place to sleep, a meal and medicines. So this proposal is coming, and just over EUR 5 million has been budgeted by the government. Now I'd like to ask: What does this law contain and what services — mainly health care, for example, medicines — are we opening in Finland for these different services? What kind of illness? What kind of medication? For example, are we talking about hepatitis drugs that are very valuable? At the same time, what about the rest of Europe? Is this same legislation being followed, which is being developed in Finland? For example, Hungary, Poland, is there also an opportunity to receive similar social services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u37	Mr President! I am not so familiar with the practices of the countries you mentioned that I can answer that part of your question, but I can answer the first part of your question: the proposal you have mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which the Ministry has given, does not extend any rights to those who are staying illegally as such, but merely provides compensation from the State for these measures taken by the municipalities under the Finnish Constitution and under its obligation to provide these urgent and necessary services. And what has the Ministry done to make the municipalities know what to do? We have instructed municipalities about this and in addition in the guide to income support — that is, for Finnish decision-makers at municipal level who usually make practical decisions in the context of social work — we will soon be giving them more detailed information on what these are, as it were, for illegal residents of this emergency aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u38	Mr President! It is important to note the clear policy of the government that a person who has received a negative judicial decision on asylum is illegal in Finland. Man is never illegal, but that is the situation, and he is illegal in the country. The Minister rightly replied that the Constitution requires the necessary provision of care, and for its part it is decided by the municipalities within the framework of municipal self-government. But we in the government have also published a pre-engagement paper on migration. In order to contain and manage this, the most important measures are the control of external borders, the assistance of refugees closer to the countries of origin and the reinforcement of return policy, and, in accordance with the Government Programme, the internal transfer of asylum seekers between EU countries must be voluntary and involve all Member States. I would like to ask the minister concerned: what is the current situation as regards asylum seekers, how do the number of applicants now appear during this term of government, and how have they developed during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u39	Mr President! Then in 2015, we had a lot of asylum seekers, and if you think about it to this day, it has become about 41,000. At the moment it has stabilized very much, and at the moment it will certainly be less than 5000 this year, so we have returned to normal, so to speak. As far as that question is concerned, it is no one’s advantage to be illegally present in this country. That is why the government has worked for us to have such a programme of prevention of illegal stay in the country, and we have also given a great deal of guidance to the municipalities. It is true that such necessary care and livelihood must be provided, but it must not become a factor of attraction. That is an absolute objective for us. And we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no illegal presence here, because that is also a very serious matter for this person.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u40	Mr President! After all, during the last term of government there was quite a wide-ranging debate on the health care of undocumented persons, and without a technical problem, a law would have left this Chamber which would guarantee the necessary health services for the undocumented. This proposal was widely supported by human rights organisations, organisations working for children's rights and health organisations, not only because it is human, but also because it makes economic sense. It makes much more sense to give a preventive antidiabetic than to do amputations during an acute period. It makes more sense to test a pregnant woman than to treat a newborn HIV positive. Many municipalities, now that that law has fallen here, have carried out this change or parts of it in their own activities. Can't we bring it this season, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u41	Mr President! Just as you said in your question, representative, about individual municipalities, the Helsinki mentioned here has ended up doing so and has decided to extend the legal rights to include illegal residents. The group of people who are "paperless", "illegally resident" in terminology may then have narrowed down somewhat differently in discussions as well. Let me briefly say this: the government has no intention of bringing forward such a proposal. The matter has been discussed within the government in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u42	Next up, Congressman Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u43	Mr President! On the day of children's rights, we received worrying Pisa results. In the Pisa study on the skills of comprehensive school pupils, learning differences between girls and boys were torn to a greater degree in cooperative problem-solving than in any other 50 comparison countries. The boys were clearly less successful than the girls. Boys have also been less successful than girls in previous Pisa tests on literacy and science skills. One in eight boys can't really read after primary school. The difference in reading skills between girls and boys is the highest among OECD countries. The government has cut out, weakened early childhood education, comprehensive school, vocational education and training, and this has increased the marginalisation of boys. Your cutter has hit every step of early childhood education in universities. I would like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u44	Mr President! This week a new content area was published in the Pisa study, which was a cooperative problem-solving area, and the big picture can once again be proud of Finnish young people and their teachers, which is where Finnish young people were placed at the top of the best. But what came up here is the concern that has also been raised in previous measurements, and it was rightly expressed here, that is, the concern for the boys. The learning gap between girls and boys in Finland is one of the biggest in the world, which means that our girls are doing really well and the boys are then left at this level. One of the explaining factors that has been sought with researchers, among others, and which is also related to this field of work, is, for example, this problem of reading, which means that boys read far less and literacy is becoming weaker today. That is what we need to be able to address, and now a national literacy forum has been set up in which experts are involved. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u45	In the future, I'm going to come in very tight after that minute. — Now I ask those representatives who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u46	Mr President! The underachievement of boys in schools is a long-term problem. Every year we graduate thousands of young people from primary school who are practically unable to read properly. Their employment is practically impossible. Their exclusion is virtually certain. That is why it is not enough for us to develop our school system. We also need to develop a tailor-made adult learning opportunity for these young people if we want them to become members of this society at all, so that they sometimes feel valuable in this society, citizens who contribute to our society. My question is: how could the Finnish school system be complemented so that at some point in their lives these young people will be able to complement their skills in such a way that they are able to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u47	Mr President! The previous answer was somewhat incomplete in the sense that I wanted to emphasise that researchers, or the best experts of our expertise at universities, are currently looking for solutions to change the school system so that it would also serve the learning of boys and be a motivating environment, because it recognises that there are issues of school motivation, school satisfaction and a strong link to learning outcomes. Solutions are being sought for this and we will have the views of researchers in March. Similarly, new curricula already contribute to meeting these challenges, but this problem is genuine and applies to areas other than the school system. Another aspect that emerged is the creation of the prerequisites for continuous learning and, on the other hand, enabling structures to be able to study in life at all stages of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u48	Mr President! We are now discussing an extremely important issue which has not come out of the blue. I myself would turn this point of view also to such a school education mission. In particular, in the case of boys, such functional pedagogy, interaction, doing things, building up working life contacts is needed, and then, ultimately, the bottom line is that the self-esteem and self-image of boys in particular must be strengthened: more good feedback, more good work. And then, yes, we have to get this tenth grade and everything. Some of the boys just develop so much slower than the girls, that then you just have to patch it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u49	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, once again for the excellent speeches. There were many good points of view in this debate and it is important for us to take them forward. It is the case that, as a society as a whole, we should be important not only in the role of parents, in the role of grandparents, but also in society and also in the school district, starting with early childhood education, but also underlining the importance of studying and being okay to succeed in school. Many times young boys, in particular, are under quite a bit of pressure: on the one hand, you have to deal with the group and the group, but it may not always be combined with that at school. So we should be able to strengthen the circle and cycle of positive learning and the fact that, on the one hand, we find our own strengths, that the school can and can motivate each child to find its own strengths.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u50	Mr President! This is a very important question, and Mr Gustafsson has made a very good speech about it. After a long journey together, we've clearly found each other. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u51	Mr President! New curricula in the daily lives of schools are currently causing a lot of work for teachers, and that is a fact, and the government has tried to support the introduction of these new curricula. The curricula have been drawn up by experts and the field has been strongly involved in them. It has now been supported, in particular, by investing in continuing education, that is, even though we have had little money, it has been possible, during this term of government, to allocate additional resources to continuing education, among other things with a new model of tutoring, which has worked in a great way in the everyday life of schools. Today I last had a discussion with the teachers here, who brought up this tutoring model as one of the solutions of many. It is these questions of internal motivation that also arise in research and new pedagogy: how to find those ways when each of us learns in a different way and identify them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u52	Mr President! It's obvious that girls and boys may learn differently. It is now a question of how our new curricula bring an individual approach to our schoolchildren. In that respect, it was good that the Minister raised the point that researchers were involved in considering ways in which we could involve the boys. When we have so many factors of change here — even Mr Puumala raised phenomena-based learning — it may be that they are precisely the right means to motivate boys to go to school. It is clear that whether girls or boys are involved, then we have a place for basic skills: mathematics and reading. It's the only way to survive in everyday life without them. I would ask the Minister of Education if we could make next year a year of basic skills, mathematics and reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u53	Mr President! A good proposal, that is to say, focus on those basic knowledge and skills. At the same time, it can be brought about by finding its own strengths and new kinds of learning. There was already talk of reading skills. So at the moment there is a group of experts, it is also strongly involved in libraries, day-care centres, schools, non-governmental organisations, parental unions and so on. One aspect has been how child health clinics could encourage parents to read to children, because at the moment we are a little lost. More than a quarter of parents read daily, that is, often, to children, for example, bedtime stories. Here we can all do more in our own neighborhood and everyday life. So the development of literacy starts from that early years and, of course, the school must also support it in our time. Similarly, we have recognized that we have too many children to solve comprehensive school without having access to
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u54	Next question, Mr Hakanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u55	Mr President! Agricultural and food production has recently been faced with severe challenges, even difficulties. However, the future must be credible, and I look to the future with confidence here. The European Union's agricultural policy is undergoing significant reform for the coming programming period. Heavy bureaucracy and regulation must move towards a simpler and fairer system. Digitalisation already makes much possible today. So I ask Minister Leppä: has technology and digitalisation been adequately taken into account in the reform of agricultural policy and in Finland's objectives when considering the challenges of the coming programming period?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u56	Mr President! Finland has been active and is also active in this EU issue. We have already been preparing for the forthcoming CAP reform for a good time. We have also put together a team of six countries, with which we have unanimously put forward a number of points, both in terms of deregulation and the promotion of digitality at European Union level. And I am hopeful that when a large number of countries do this, it will also be brought forward. Digitalism is today and, above all, it is the future. In Finland, for example, next spring the Rural Service will introduce field monitoring testing and experimentation. Of course, a large part of control is done in the old way, but yet a new advantage is also taken in this regard, so that we can have a more precise system, we can have a simpler system and a system that serves farmers, advice, the whole industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u57	Next question, Congressman Semi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u58	Mr President! The government is now playing a tough and dangerous game. Social reform and regional reform are a mess. Yesterday, in this Parliament, through the group discipline of the government parties, a drastic reduction of the district court network was severed. The District Court leaves many of the important cities in the region, such as Kemi, Kokkola, Iisalmi, Varkaus and Raahe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u59	Mr President! This is a very important issue, and the report of the Parliamentary Audit Committee was also required to do so some time ago, and, as a result, the City Councillor Antti Rantakokko made a comprehensive report a few months ago this autumn, highlighting the issue and status of these regional cities, and at the same time assessing the number of jobs we have lost in the state, even during the previous and the time before and in many governments. Now, of course, within the government, we have to think about the fact that, once so many of these public jobs have gone away, how we can help and promote, in particular, the situation of the second towns in these provinces, which are not those regional centres, and this is currently being considered within the government. I myself intend to meet this vast network here in the next few weeks, it may be that it will go to the beginning of next year. I think it is important that Finland should:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u60	Ladies and gentlemen! This Question Time had one big question that brought together the whole Chamber, where it was necessary to give speeches to all groups. After that, there was now a little less time for other questions. These others, everyone, are given room here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u61	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u62	Värderade Talman! Regeringens vårdreform tar sig nya vändningar varje vecka. Det Senasteexemplet kommer nu från sjukhuset i Meri-Lappi, där också regeringens egna fullmäktigeledamöter går emot såväl sin egen minister som sin egen fullmäktigeordförande. Det är ett tydligt tecken på att befolkningen inte har förtroende för den vårdreform som regeringen nu planerar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u63	Mr President! The government is not giving up its social welfare reform, on the contrary. This is precisely why this reform is needed to guarantee Finnish services. And I assure you, even at the heart of the government reform is the safeguarding of local services. You refer here last week to the long- discussed situation in the West Ostrobothnia Hospital District of Meri-Lap and, above all, to the government's decisions relating to one part of health care, namely special medical care and its surgery. The law relating to this, the Health Care Act, has been adopted in Parliament about a year ago, and it is related to the division of labour between Finnish hospitals, and in that respect I say that in Finland every single hospital that has so far been publicly active will continue to operate, and now we are just doing a division of labour between what kind of cuts are being made in every place. And also over there in Meri-Lap.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u64	Next question, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u65	Mr President! At regular intervals, convictions in sexual offences are brought to the public, which test the public’s sense of justice. Judgments are often found far too mild, even understating the victim’s experience. This week's public judgment on the sexual abuse of a child by the Turku Court of Appeal raised the question of whether our legislation on this issue was sufficient. It is shocking that, in recent years, sexual crimes against children in particular appear to have been on the increase. Crimes against children pose their own challenges to legislation. In order to ensure the legal protection of the child, it should be possible to take better account of the weaker status of the child and the special features of the age. Mr President! I would like to ask the minister concerned:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u66	Mr President! The most important task for the government, I dare say, is to safeguard the physical integrity and security of every citizen. This is an extremely important task, especially for children, and, of course, also an extremely difficult task, because these crimes, which are committed, are extremely cruel crimes, are committed within the family circle, in close proximity, in which case a person is vulnerable in many ways. The revelation of these acts is also behind a very large wall. We need horizontal measures, just as this Question Time has highlighted: measures to protect children, preventive services, very wide-ranging measures. At that point, we are already a little late if criminal procedural measures are to be taken. But when they are needed, it is a question of what is a fair punishment for certain acts, and the ministry has launched this work site, where the penalties for sexual crimes against children are being considered, in particular, and in the early part of the year there will be conclusions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u67	There is one real question here, but when there is a moment, because of the importance of this question, I will admit one supplementary question. I ask the representatives who want to present it to you to stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u68	Mr President! The Finnish Criminal Code says that rape is a felony if it targets a child under the age of 18. Now many of us have been shocked to hear and read about a court order in which, however, such an act has not been regarded as rape in a court of law, since it has not been possible to prove the actual violence and the child’s opposition. I myself was in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the mid-1990s when the criminal law was reformed in this regard, and I had a different idea from what we were talking about in this case. And, of course, all these measures, which the Minister listed as reducing violence against children and, in particular, sexual violence, are so generally necessary, but I ask whether the Minister considers that this paragraph of the criminal code should be clarified so that the child is subjected to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u69	Mr President! For the sake of the Constitution, I will not touch on this actual court ruling. It is within the sovereignty of the courts. They look at the interpretation of the penal code and the laws that this Chamber has passed, regardless of what we have said. As regards the general level of punishment and punishment practices in Finland in the longer term, I will only draw conclusions from it after careful analysis. They are now seen in terms of the penalty scales, the severity of the penalty as a whole, as well as the question of whether there is a need to make some changes to the wording or parameters in order to ensure effective enforcement of criminal liability and to take account of the specific vulnerability of children in these processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u70	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 17/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u71	Mr President! The Section for Taxation of the Committee on Finance agreed on this welcome proposal. After all, this complements the tax treaties for Andorra, Liechtenstein, San Marino, Monaco and Switzerland, and although almost all of those countries are dwarf states for about their size, their importance as tax havens, in hiding funds, in the shadow economy and in money laundering is considerable. It is therefore very important and very welcome that the fight against tax evasion, which has received a new impetus at European level, should also receive more tools for Finland. Under previous tax treaties, the Finnish authorities have had to make requests for investigations in these countries, and this has been difficult. So it must have been possible to identify the suspect's crime. The significant improvement has been that this is now the case with the same type of automatic exchange of information in the financial sector as in the Convention that has just entered into force for more than 100 countries, which was signed by the Finance Minister, Rinne, and which is now in force. The extent to which this has come may simply tell us what happened to the funds hidden in Liechtenstein by Finnish wealthy individuals. After all, the LGT bank employee stole account information in 2002, and for 17 Finns these came to the attention of the tax authorities a few years later. The tax authority was not tempted to report these offences, but only to raise taxes, and this caused a storm after which the Finnish tax authority, The Tax Administration has acted in a completely different, commendable way. We will also take care of the reform of tax procedures and tax collection laws,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u72	Mr President! Indeed, the government's line on this tax evasion issue has been clear and clear. These tax havens must be hunted down and put an end to them, as the Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo witnessed a few days ago on that podium. So the government's line is that tax havens will be discontinued as long as it is closed in Finland. These proposals are always supported and these tax avoidance routes are blocked. There are two things that need to be done: The second is that we need international cooperation, that is, by European Union standards we need partners to close these loopholes. Then, of course, the other thing that works for this is the investigative press and the media. There will always be different revelations, through which these various tax havens will then break out in public. This is quite the right development, and this government policy, which is based on the abolition of tax havens, also supports it. By cooperating internationally, for example, under EU standards, we are best placed to attack tax havens. It is easy for everyone to understand that a small country in Finland, a nation of 5 million here in the north, on its own, could very little, but as a member of the European Union and a common tax policy in Europe, we will probably achieve much better results. I believe that in the next ten years we will be able to make a lot of progress in this regard compared to this moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u73	Mr President! Just as Mr Hoskonen said, the current government's approach to tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning is strict, just as was the previous government. I do not know whether it could have been made clearer than Mr Orpo, the finance minister, did when he said in this Chamber some time ago that 'I believe that tax havens must be destroyed'. Mr. Speaker! General human rights and human rights principles are crucial in every civilised state and rule of law. However, it sometimes seems that these good principles, such as a fair trial, are being used by lawyers to get criminals off the hook even in clear cases. Let me give you two examples. In Finland during the last parliamentary term, the government proposed a change aimed at preventing the use of illegally obtained evidence. This principle, of course, came from the general Western, European and human rights principles, because it was felt that if illegally obtained evidence could be used, it would be a danger to a fair trial. In this government proposal, the main rule was that illegally obtained evidence cannot be used, although in certain circumstances it could have been used. This proposal by the government at the time would have meant, for example, that when the stolen or embezzled documents of Liechten-stein mentioned here would have fallen into the hands of the Finnish legal system and the tax authority, they could not have been used because they had been obtained illegally. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I would ask the speaker to continue with the floor. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u76	Mr President! The question raised by Mrs Zyskowicz at the end of this debate is a serious one, and it is absolutely something that must be examined here in the Committee on Finance and its tax section — how this ne bis in idem rule will be applied in practice. If you see any loopholes in it, you're gonna have to plug them up. This theft of information by Liechtenstein's LGT bank was in fact historic. After all, the German intelligence service bought a CD-ROM of this information, there was information about the money hidden by rich citizens of several European countries, including, indeed, the Finns, some of whom even appeared under the pseudonym, and it was a major turning point, let me say, in this European debate on tax evasion and the withholding of property. This resulted in a number of investigative cases and criminal proceedings throughout Europe, and in Greece, for example, this led to the expulsion of a finance minister because he had for some inconceivable reason lost a CD from Germany, which contained information about funds hidden by Greek millionaires in Switzerland and Liechtenstein at the same time as the Greek state finances were in difficulty. But just a few more words I'm going to put in the toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium] I also agree with Mr Zyskowicz that this demarcation between tax increases and criminal proceedings is extremely important, let me say, for the general sense of justice and the generality of such criminal activities. That is why the Government's proposal 97/2017, which is now being discussed in the Tax Section, which is therefore about tax collection and tax procedures, is extremely important in this respect, and we have spent a great deal of time on it. The question is that we want to ensure that the Tax Administration has successfully changed its policies over the last ten years and systematically raised criminal cases through its rather clear internal codes of conduct that this activity would not be jeopardised by the fact that the threshold for criminal investigations would not increase. We must not, as legislators, send a message to the Tax Administration that we are somewhat less sensitive to tax evasion or even aggressive tax planning. It is therefore very important that this message of legislation is also out of hand that sanctions and sanctions should be increased rather than, at least, that they should be reduced, and that there should also be certainty in the Tax Administration that it would rather be brought to the criminal investigation and that, if the conditions were not met, the tax increase would be satisfied. But there is also the question of whether a normal, standard tax increase, which would only be 2% in the government proposal, or an increased tax increase under certain conditions, will be imposed. So it is also unclear whether this intended legislation is now encouraging the Tax Administration to act with sufficient rigour and precisely so that this fear of sanctions would prevent and curb tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u77	Mr President! I can say to the lawyer sitting next to you that the legal term he was applying for is therefore a ban on exploitation — it also remains in the Minutes. Mr Zyskowicz made a good point on this issue and on this problem, and I would also like to raise these Panama papers held by the Yle MOT programme, which it has not wanted to hand over to the Central Criminal Police. According to publicly available information, for example, there are hundreds of Finnish names in these, and they have considered it more valuable that they continue to receive news from this ICIJ network than to be able to intervene in the black economy and tax evasion by the Finnish police. In this case, it comes to mind that we politicians are often criticized by the media for not doing enough to prevent and prevent tax evasion and the grey economy, and now that there is clear material that could effectively intervene by the Central Criminal Police, what is the Finnish media doing? It says we won't give it to you. It has called for this source to be revealed if they give it to the CID, but the thousands of journalists who have this material on this network have failed to find out this source, so it is not a very sustainable argument for this not to want to give information to the police, which could be clarified. So here is an example where we are criticised for not doing enough, but when those who criticize have information they do not want the Finnish police to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u78	President! Let me just say briefly what has not been said in this debate. After all, this is an extension of the automatic exchange of information, i.e. in the future the financial institutions from these five countries will receive account balances, dividends, sales gains and cash-in income or credited income between a certain period of time. In other words, in the sense that we usually think of banking secrecy, it will no longer exist, which means that there will be little more money to hide in that country. The information from there will automatically come to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u79	Mr President! I still have enough journalist left in me to consider the supplier's source protection as an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u82	Mr President! Personally, I absolutely want to respect the protection of sources, including as a former supplier itself, and that is important, even because in such cases there might be a threat to life, for example, if the identity of those who provided this information were to be identified. But this is in fact ridiculous because these many journalists have not been able to find out about this material, and the Finnish Tax Administration, for example, has stated that this is not a lasting reason not to give this information to the tax authorities at least, but also to the central criminal police, who have been interested in it. So I am certainly not in favour of breaking the source protection, but it is now a question of whether the media, in this case YLE and MOT, want to provide this information to the Finnish tax authority so that this money can also be taxed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u83	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 20/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u84	Mr President! This amendment to section 12 of the Public Transport Act concerns the definition of the Helsinki Region Joint Municipal Authority and the definition of HKL. So there are two more municipalities coming here as transport organisers, i.e. municipal authorities. This law deals with who can engage in municipal public service activities and therefore organise public transport services. This question was quite topical when this traffic arch was discussed in this Chamber some weeks ago. This is, of course, justified in the sense that, as this traffic arch proceeds, questions of this kind will be met in that province elsewhere. In particular, rail transport has to do with the decision to dismantle VR's monopoly and now new ways of producing these public transport services in those provinces. So in the future, VR won't be the only player that's gonna be out there. I am not surprised at the discontent that people are becoming at the moment with regard to rail services. Well, of course, the trains are full, and that's good, the main route runs well, but when you go aside even a little bit from the main route or between larger cities, you're already starting to have those problems. For example, those trains are not going to stop near every stop in Häme, and it is not going to stop like some trains between Seinäjoki and Tampere, in Parkano, which route will be used a lot — not to mention those trains that go through cross-links and, for example, along the Haapamäki track, which goes through my own home regions. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr. Speaker! Let's move on from this podium. — All in all, improvements must be made to our public transport. Yes, for several years the municipal decision-makers have been here for the so-called lobbying and always for these rail links, public transport connections with various ministers and ministry officials to talk about how these transport connections could be maintained in rural areas, so it has always come to the questions that VR's activities have been reduced a little year. When, for example, the transversal traffic is viewed there along the Haapamäki track, there are two pairs of trains moving, and in practice the situation is that people are not able to use it on the scale they should. After all, rail transport must be able to serve, first of all, pendement, i.e. commuting. It needs to be able to serve the connections. It must be better able to serve students so that they can get to their localities and also use those rail links for studies, because universities in particular are in regional centres, but a lot of people still want to visit the region more often than just someone once a year or a month. So we need to be able to develop this public transport sector, and that is why I believe that this opening up of rail transport will enable us to get new players. Now we come to what this law has to do with, in other words, the granting of new organisers' rights. Yes, at least there, in our area of origin, expectations are high. The Association of Southern Ostrobothnia, the Ostrobothnian Federation, the Pirkanmaa Federation and the Federation of Central Finland have joined forces to investigate the rail pilot, which will identify both operators and methods of organisation there, and which will specifically address the problems mentioned above in the accessibility of rail transport. There are plenty of opportunities, and of course tourism is one of the key opportunities. Just as many people have read the good news, so there will soon be new residents in those areas from China, and with the arrival of pandas the number of tourists will certainly increase along these lines, so we must also be able to manage this public transport better and offer the conditions that both international tourists and our Finnish tourists will also be able to use public transport to travel and visit different tourist destinations without their own car.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u85	Mr. Speaker! This Chamber has often discussed the development of public transport and, in particular, the possibility of commuting using various means of public transport. This bill, which amends the Public Transport Act because the municipalities of Siuntio and Tuusula wanted them to be able to join the competent area of HSL, the Helsinki Region Transport Group, and partly to do so, originates from the wishes of the municipality of Siuntio and Tuusula. For my part, I would like to thank Minister Berner and also the government for their rapid response to this issue. Thus, through the presentation and through this law, the Siuntians and Tuusulas can then carry out their business trips by means of more public transport. Once this matter has been discussed in the Committee on Transport and Communications, this report will be unanimous. That's a good thing. The expert consultation highlighted very clearly this opening of ticket and payment systems interfaces. This means that one ticket can be used from point A to point B of the travel chain, for example to point C, even if using a different public transport mode, train or bus. It must be everything we have to do with this system, which is what the law on transport services also requires. This presupposes that the interfaces are transparent and, in particular, that new types of services providing travel chains need to be opened up and made available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u86	Mr. Speaker! In his long speech, Mr Savola went through this very well, and I really wanted to say here, when we are talking about the smooth running of rail transport, to thank Minister Berner and Minister Orpo for the fact that this supplementary budget proposal also takes forward the improvement of the railway capacity of the main railway line. It is very relevant here in its entirety. When rail traffic is opened up, as Mr Savola pointed out, people are not satisfied at the moment with the services provided by VR. An hour’s train pleases those who can get on, but along the way from Hämeenlinna, Riihimäki and many other places you can’t get on an hour and a half train, and then the journeys are one and a half or two hours away. Then we need more actors on these routes, and this improvement in the transmission capacity of the main track will make it easier for Finland as a whole and is important in that sense. This chain of movement and transport, which Mr Berner has made a good contribution to, is the future that is needed. For example, people must be able to purchase a package using various means of mobility in the future with a mobile application. It can include a taxi, a bus, a bus, for example, a steering wheel, why not to a ship and plane and so away. We will then be able to move smoothly and hopefully to get these services there as well. In the same car it must be possible to travel through packages, children, grandmothers and working people. Then we will be in the kind of movement and travel that will benefit all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u87	Mr President! I share these thanks, too, for what has been said about this proposal. It is good to note that when Finland becomes urbanised and the capital region in particular expands into spending limits municipalities, the role of HSL, traffic in the Helsinki region, will be expanded, and this is now a good direction and will show the way to what the future feels like. Here Mr Heinonen gave a good deal of thought to the future of Finnish rail transport," said the hour train. Actually, an hour train is old-fashioned: we should start talking about half-hour trains in Finland. I was recently visiting China, where little more is being built than a bullet train network, which is constantly accessible at a steady speed of more than 300 km from one place to another. Imagine if our rail vision was 20 years away too, that it would take Oulu and Rovaniemi a few hours and Tampere, Turku and Kouvola would be just a few minutes away. Then all these things relating to the transport of workers, commuting hours and so on, would be taken care of at once. I claim that we have a little too small a vision of Finland at the moment, so actually Prime Minister To Sipilä, I say nothing but wings to broad and Minister Berner new winds to sail and traffic vision to such an extent that in 20 years' time these bullet trains will also be a reality in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u88	Mr President! This government proposal and the report by the Committee on Transport are a good whole, which shows that public transport in Finland is, however, being invested. The fact that Tuusula and Siuntio get inside the jurisdiction of the Joint Municipal Authority of the Helsinki Region is a good thing and will probably help a very large number of people working and also families who spend their leisure time and so on. In other words, this is exactly the right direction for the development of transport according to local needs. But in the same context, the transport needs of the whole country must also be highlighted. We need to get the main network fixed. Let me take one example, which is nothing more than a few ten million euros renovation, and it is a fast east track from Helsinki to Joensuu, so that the last section of the line after Imatra, on the Joensuu side of the road, can be completed so that Pendolino can be operated at full speed, at the same speed as the Helsinki-Hämeenlinna interval or the Helsinki-Tampere interval. In other words, the project has already gone a long way: the track has been repaired, it has been fixed, it has been twisted and so on. It is up to a few level passages to achieve rapid traffic. Secondly, the access control system is still out of date. So it's a strange thing, it's kind of the same thing as if any of the representatives were to build themselves a nice house, but they wouldn't do the roof. By the way, it's an excellent thing, but I'm a little short. Similarly, this Joensuu railway line: everything has been completed, there are prerequisites for transport, but then a few small million will be caught that the full capacity cannot be used. Finally, Mr President, I hope that, while rail transport is being developed in Finland, we should now make major investments on the line, I mean decisive changes to our systems. And the big change is that we need to get a rail link through the north to the Arctic Ocean, definitely. We must get there because it is one of the major developments in the future growth of the world. It is certain in the northern dimension — as it is called in quite a number of speeches — that there are huge ore resources, oil resources, gas resources and many more in the north. There will be huge growth to be expected in the next few decades. If Finland lags behind this development cycle, it will be bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u89	Mr. Speaker! Congressman Laukkanen has a vision for rail traffic 20 years away. Yes, the bullet trains and the fast connections between the central cities — there are many possibilities, but there are also the risks that I tried to describe in that speech, precisely because we cannot forget these rail links in rural areas, not the intermediate stops that already exist along the main railway line, not to mention the other connections that then take off in different directions from that main railway line, and yes, it is of particular concern for these transversal connections in Finland. After all, some years ago there was an EU-led project involving regional federations from Finland, Sweden and Norway from this region in the Central North, the so-called Green Corridor in Central Ostrobothnia was the theme of this project. Millions of euros were spent on it, and its central theme was transport from Trondheim, Norway, up to the Russian border, and this is where these transversal rail links in Finland came to the fore, and this is the Haapamäki railway, which is an essential part of it. There the long-term vision must be to electrify the track, because electrification will then also enable these faster trains as well as newer equipment to operate on these rail links. In the meantime, however, we must look openly at the new options. If VR is not willing to act, then these activities must be developed with those who are, and I am very pleased that, among other things, regional federations in that region are united in taking the matter forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u90	Mr President! As I have already said in my own speech, this government proposal improves public transport for the residents of Tuusula and Siuntio, but since this debate has already extended to public transport for the whole of Finland and, in itself, to a very important issue, that the whole of Finland is being spoken of, as it is usually meant to be taken into account, that the mediation capacity of the main track is indeed the big question of how to improve it. In fact, when I take the train from that province myself, Lappeenranta, to Helsinki, the bottleneck is usually here either in the area of Tikkurila, Pasila or right here at the main railway station in Helsinki. It usually slows down the journey, and I hope that this is something we want to improve, as has now been done through the amending budget and also through this supplementary budget proposal, precisely these points, which are important. That's when the main track's capable of transmitting better. All in all, that future of rail transport will, of course, have a great deal to discuss and must be invested in. We must also invest in that renovation of the railways in the whole of Finland. Among other things, representative Hoskonen raised the condition and development of the Karelian track. I would like to point out from there that today, for example, a twin tracker named Luumäki—Imatra is currently being designed on the Karelian railway line to create a polarised twin track and a thinning. I hope that as soon as that planning is carried forward, we will also be able to implement it. Indeed, it is expected that it will be implemented. Now it seems that only the benches and not the tracks are being built on a bridge.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u91	Mr President! Indeed, this transversal traffic, mentioned by Mr Savola, I share this deep concern as well. When this The siuntion stop a couple of years ago was decided to stop the nearby traffic, it produced the fact that this kind of growing area almost completely clotted. Housing prices fell, and the community there stopped investing in its own territory because they were deprived of life with one small act. I don't think this should happen. Well, then one more aspect: the next really significant, growing transverse traffic, the so-called Ring IV, will be a very significant growth area, and should take into account this route from Hanko to Eagle and then see that there is a Ring Five, Ring Six, and make sure that this transverse traffic also works.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u92	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Hoskonen, for your excellent speech, but I would also add the importance of cross-border traffic in North Karelia to the east of Joensuu. This train traffic is important if we want to keep Finland as a whole inhabited. So the development of the entire transport infrastructure is of course important, but if we look at it from a sustainable perspective, the development of rail transport will be even more important. And if Mr Laukkanen’s vision can be realised — that is, as Vice-President of the Committee on the Future, I actually believe in that vision — then more and more environmentally-friendly air transport can be transferred to more environmentally sound rail connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u93	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u94	Mr President! The Act proposes to amend Article 15 of the Non-Discrimination Act. In the second paragraph of the paragraph, a more precise definition is provided that the reasonable adjustments referred to in the section mean both physical aids and arrangements to support cognitive performance and ability to function, for example at work. The aim is to clarify the legal obligation to make reasonable adjustments and, in particular, the application of this obligation to disabled persons whose disability affects their cognitive capacity. Mr President! The Non-Discrimination Act was last amended in 2014. The law prohibits discrimination on grounds of age, origin, nationality, language, religion, belief, opinion, health, disability, sexual orientation and other reasons related to the person. In addition to the obligation under the Equality Act to refrain from discrimination, Article 15 of the Act imposes an obligation on the authority, the providers of education, employers and suppliers of goods or services to make appropriate and reasonable adjustments to the situation in question. These adjustments promote the conditions for people with disability to work or use services, for example, and thus strengthen the realisation of equality. These adaptations have been implemented in Finnish legislation in accordance with the UN CRPD and the Labour Discrimination Directive. The legislation does not specify in more detail what adjustments are required on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, the required adjustments are not limited in such a way as to exclude from the obligation the so-called need to adapt to cognitive ergonomics, e.g. by limiting cognitive activity. In practice, however, adaptation is often understood only as the purchase of mobility problems and aids to compensate for visual or hearing impairment, and cognitive ergonomics are often not made in accordance with the spirit of the law. By clarifying the legal provision in this respect, the law could be more informative and increase the implementation of adjustments to cognitive ergonomics. The wider use of cognitive ergonomic adjustments could help people with cognitive limitations to become more active in society and to increase their participation in working life. For example, there are currently around 7,000 to 8000 people of working age who have memory problems in Finland. The diagnosis of memory disorders has developed a lot and diseases are detected at a very early stage. The development of treatment and rehabilitation has also slowed down the progression of diseases and thus the actual symptoms of memory-diseased persons will become apparent later. In spite of all this, many people with memory problems are immediately diagnosed when they retire, and the continuation of work is not even considered as a viable alternative. Cognitive adaptation would allow for longer working even for several years, which could also have a positive economic impact. Of course, the use of cognitive adjustments would benefit other groups, such as those with mental disabilities, and would facilitate their employment. This draft law proposes to add to the beginning of Article 15(2) of the Non-Discrimination Act the clarification that the obligation referred to in the article concerns adjustments to injuries to both physical and cognitive functional capacity. These adjustments to cognitive ergonomics refer, for example, to the coordination of work organised by the employer and of work equipment, environments and practices with human data processing capabilities and limitations. Such arrangements can facilitate the performance of work and thus enable people with cognitive disability to continue at work. However, the cognitive adjustments are not limited to the actions of the employer, but are equally subject to the obligations of the other parties under Article 15. Mr President! The bill therefore proposes that Parliament approve the amendment of Article 15 of the Non-Discrimination Act to read as follows: "The adjustments referred to in this paragraph may include changes to the In addition to the needs of a disabled person, consideration shall be given to the size of the operator referred to in paragraph 1, the financial status, the nature and extent of the activity and the estimated costs of the adjustments and the aid available for adjustments." So, in paragraph 1, we're talking about an employer. The initiative was signed by a total of 22 MPs from six different parties and all signatories were members of the parliamentary memory group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u95	Mr President! Here another signatory is registered and is pleased that a few speakers have already registered on this subject at this stage. People of working age who are the greatest number of people who, if this bill were to be implemented, would help in working life, in the form of that 7,000 members, are a group of people in our working life who, until now, have not been able to react otherwise than by almost direct dismissal. Memory sickness is a frightening thing for many when it is known that memory sickness is usually an incurable and progressive disease. People of working age with memory disorders are particularly affected by the lack of services. For them, peer support may only exist in the largest cities. It is very important to increase the awareness of the existence of memory - impaired workers and people. Indeed, a memory disorder can affect a 35-year-old person. When working life ends, the connection to occupational health care also ends, and this is one big thing here too for people with memory disorders of working age, because it rarely happens that people at the public health centre can then catch a person with this kind of memory disorder. This is one such point that we should also discuss how we could build a better bridge between occupational health care and the health centre's customership when it ends its working life. But all the same, I am very glad that we are now at this point and discussing this bill. Let's see how nice this conversation is going to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u96	Mr President! An addition to Article 15(2) of the Non-Discrimination Act is of course necessary, especially from the point of view of working life. If we had the best possible reasonable adjustments, i.e. different physical aids and arrangements, we would have more and more people in the labour market. The scale is well illustrated by the fact that we have between 7000 and 8000 people of working age who have memory problems, but we must remember that as many as 2 million Finns have a long-term illness, and I believe that this change could even be of benefit to people other than these who have memory problems. If we get as many people as possible who are mentally ill and who are also affected by this problem into working life, it will be of great benefit both to themselves and to us all and to society as a whole. Physical aids would help many of them: those who are already in work, but especially those who would be able to participate with them. Faith is strong that a large proportion of the unemployed have memory problems that make it harder to get a job. When one remembers that there are many different sanctions and sanctions in the management of government unemployment, it is absolutely inhumane, especially for these memory-diseased people, that because of their own illness and lack of equipment they are forced to remain outside and unable to participate, for example, in the required active measures and in the search for work on the scale that would be possible. This bill is easy to support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u97	Mr President! People’s ability to work is vital not only for man himself but also for society, for disability is undeniably costly. The financial loss in Finland is over EUR 4 billion annually. Nearly 19,000 people are transferred to an invalidity pension each year, and at present nearly 170,000 people are receiving an invalidity pension. The most worrying aspect is that the number of people under 25 who receive disability pensions has increased considerably in recent years. Up to 1.9 million Finns have illness or disability. Of them, 600,000 estimated that this would be detrimental to their employment or to their continued employment. However, the main challenges of continuing to work for those who are capable of part-time work are not only related to part-time work but also to prejudice and negative attitudes. In addition, the solutions and opportunities of continuing to work for part-time disabled people are not well known. It is very important for working ability and the working community to have good leadership and positive feeling and motivation of employees at work. The focus is on active dialogue and cooperation between employers, workers and occupational health care, which is supported by this legislative initiative on this adaptation. The most effective and sustainable way to correct central government finances is to increase the employment rate significantly. In central government finances, an increase in the employment rate of one percentage point amounts to a balance of around EUR 800 million. I therefore support this bill to increase people's chances of continuing to work and to strengthen the state economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u98	Mr President! I am one of the signatories to this initiative and I would like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo for persevering with these small improvements to drive here and to gather us as well. This small change and addition to the equal rights law is welcome, and I really hope that this will succeed and then see the light of day. If, for some reason, the committee does not understand the value of this, then let us continue to work towards a future government programme for the next term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u99	Mr President! In a good society, every citizen can be involved and feel meaningful in his or her own life and purpose in life. Work is part of this meaningful life, and that is why this bill is important. It is a bad thing for individuals and society if people have to miss work too early because of the lack of understanding or desire for adaptation measures. Mr President! Attitude injury is the most difficult injury. We still have a lot of need in society to change attitudes towards disability and people with disabilities. For example, discrimination against disabled people is reflected in the fact that not enough is still being done to achieve accessibility and accessibility of services. In addition, there are very different approaches to different groups of people with disabilities in society. If attitudes were in order, this bill would not have had to be taken, as the current formulation of the Equality Act would be sufficient to safeguard everyone's right to adapt working conditions. But this is not the case, and I therefore hope that this bill will proceed favourably. People with cognitive disabilities must also have equal rights to adjustments and continue working as long as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u100	Mr President! This is very much the case as Mäkisalo-Ropponen, the first signatory of this bill, states that an attitudeal injury is the most severe injury, at least it is very expensive, this injury, in this society. On the other hand, I feel that, for that reason too, this legal initiative debate is already important in itself, that the best medicine for that less attitude is information. By doing so, when we are able to reduce prejudices and fears against, among other things, memory disorders and other cognitive condescending diseases, we will make it possible for them, those with this disability, to have a better chance of continuing in working life. Indeed, when we do not know enough about memory disorders, for example, then we make decisions on the basis of beliefs and fears. The employer also needs information and support in the same way, so that he can then make the right decisions at the workplace, so that, for example, it is possible to continue with the memory disorder there for longer. Equally, I hope that, in this case too, it will also be understood that this memory disorder, for example, affects many more than just the employer or the supervisor and the employee. It often affects the entire working community, and then also the family and neighbors of a person with memory problems. I hope that less and less data protection will be used as a weapon or as an obstacle or as a reason for not talking about these matters, but that transparency is a good remedy in addition to that information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u101	Mr President! The situation of people with memory disorders of working age is still weak in Finland, as Mr Heikkinen said in his previous speech. The health system still does not always recognize them, for we have such an attitude or false knowledge that memory disorders are only diseases of the elderly. However, we have as many people of working age with memory disorders as the total number of ms patients, which means that it is not a small marginal group. I hope that this debate, too, has raised even a little awareness of this important issue, and I thank you for this good debate, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u102	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 8th issue of the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u103	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the legislative initiative I am now considering, I propose to amend Article 121 of the Employment Accidents and Occupational Diseases Act. ) and the law on insurance law. This is a bill on the so-called insurance doctor system. The possibility for insurance companies and their doctors to contest the diagnosis of the treating physician without seeing the patient is a major challenge to the public's sense of justice. On the basis of the enormous feedback I have received, there should be a change in the matter, for, as the judge’s instructions also say, “What is not right and fair, it may not be a law.” Here in this millennium, Parliament has made the activities of insurance doctors more than 60 parliament days, regardless of the government and opposition position, across the entire party field. Over the years, changes and revisions have been made to the system which have improved the transparency of decision-making and eased the process. However, the main drain defect has remained unchanged: the disproportionate power of insurance doctors to deny the findings of treating doctors. Mr President! The first proposal of my bill concerns the placing of insurance doctors under the so-called obligation of truth. In practice, this means that doctors who took part in insurance companies' compensation decisions should sign their statements and documents with the label'my honour and conscience I assure'. This is not the case at the moment, although under the Health Care Professionals Act every other doctor is forced to do so. This change promotes citizens' confidence in the legal system and increases the threshold for insurance doctors to stretch their interpretations of the ability of insured persons to work. The second proposal concerns the reverse burden of proof for insurance companies. The reverse burden of proof is that compensation and pension decisions are taken in principle on the basis of the opinion of the insured treating physician. An insurance company may be exempted from payment of compensation only if it is able to prove that the diagnosis and assessment of the professional capacity of the treating physician is substantially incorrect. The estimated impact of my initiative on central government finances is clearly positive. Payment of benefits to patients in insurance institutions reduces the burden on the state, municipalities and nursing maids in health care and social services. In addition, it enables timely treatment and, most importantly, the initiation of rehabilitation in order to maintain the ability to work and function and reduces the need for other social benefits for patients. The delay in rehabilitation due to compensation disputes is many times the loss of the national economy. I suggest that, on the basis of my legislative initiative, the preparation of an amendment to the law will take place, which will intervene in this very unfair current system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u104	Mr President! I would like to express my thanks to Mr Ronkainen for the cooperation we have had. This is not a matter of government-opposition, it is a matter of common concern to all of us. It is clear that the insurance doctor's system requires renovation. The obligation to tell the truth and the actions now being presented are only one part of the renovation. The whole system must start from a weaker point of view. For example, when I am in the swimming games as a translation inspector, the interpretation is that if I am uncertain about it, it is in the interests of the swimmer. This is also the case with the insurance doctor, so if there is any uncertainty, interpretations must be made in favour of the weaker party. In addition, the process also involves repair sites at source, which came to be mentioned — in what way rehabilitation processes start — and also the fact that they are already being adequately investigated at source, because they often have to be returned to them. Moreover, when faced with the situation of appeals and appeals, they take far too long in their entirety. They are a very long time in a person’s life, and one can say that every day is too much for a person to expect. First of all, when you go to appeal and appeal to the Board of Appeal, it may take a year, and when you go from there to the insurance court, you talk about the years, and in that respect, this proportion must be considered in its entirety. I would like to return to the question of the obligation of truth, on which I have my own legislative initiative, which is of the same content as Mr Ronkainen, but which is different in that it affects six different laws: insurance companies and pension institutions make decisions that have a key impact on people's lives, and the doctor's assessment plays a key role in this. Unlike medically trained experts in general, doctors employed by insurance companies and pension institutions are exempt from the obligation to sign written statements and other medical certificates with the words "by my honour and conscience". In view of the situation that we have also dealt with this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in 2004, and that it has been stated that the expert in the insurance company will make his assessment of the resolution of pension and other matters in his capacity as a doctor and will be responsible for the assessment he has given on the basis of his professional responsibilities, the committee also raised the point that the activities of doctors are an important part of the procedure on which confidence in the implementation of the pension system is based, but in 2004 the committee did not feel that this should be changed. But it is clear when we listen to people's stories that each of those stories is touching and very tragic. From the point of view of the credibility of the entire social insurance system, it is clear that the opinions and certificates issued by doctors are of key importance, above all for the people affected. The exemption for doctors in insurance companies and pension institutions from medical statements and statements is also conducive to increasing suspicions of the system as a whole. At the same time, the practice reduces the credibility of insurance decisions and is likely to increase the sense of injustice experienced by the insured person. In future, the opinions of the insurance companies and their own doctors and external doctors should be formally placed on an equal footing. That is why the right of insurance companies and pension institutions' own doctors not to comply with the legal formal provisions on healthcare professionals in their opinions and other statements must be abolished, and in this respect I have listed six different legislations. I will also finish with the question of how decisions are taken at the moment without seeing the person himself. They are made on paper, not on a conveyor belt, but well, you can say, paper tigerlike. It is strange, in itself, that on the basis of the papers people make decisions that touch the rest of their lives without seeing the person himself, without talking to the person. This is another issue that needs to be raised. I think it is absolutely essential that if a doctor makes a decision about the rest of a person’s life to come, as one might say, then he should also see the person in question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u105	Mr President! Every day you run into newspaper articles related to the rejection of insurance doctors. The story is always more or less the same: the rejection decision has come into the mailbox, even though the common sense does not understand the absence of a clear case. It is also difficult to obtain clear reasons for a decision in a number of problematic situations. There must be an end to the confusion in such situations. In many cases, it is a matter of enormous importance for a person’s life and livelihood. If no compensation is received, life will be considerably more difficult — especially when rejection decisions are not even properly justified. Representative Ronkainen's bill is a good example of how to improve the legal status of people by increasing the obligations of insurance doctors to participate in the preparation of the case and by recording a reasoned assessment of the case and by requiring insurance companies to provide evidence of the reasons for rejecting the decision. Assessment of the causal link between accidents and occupational diseases and accidents or diseases is often difficult. It is therefore justified that the assessment should be carried out carefully and that the insurance doctor should have more responsibility for the process in relation to the small person. It would also be a fair change if insurance companies were to clearly prove that they were wrong in the insurance law, in order to have a negative compensation decision. There are major shortcomings in this area. That is why it is easy to support this bill. Mr President! There should be a wide-ranging review of practices relating to insurance doctors. One practical problem is the practice of publishing the qualifications of specialist doctors used by the Social Insurance Institution. Kela will inform you of the names of the doctors, but there is no information on the qualifications of doctors in its HR register, at least very easily. Kela’s decisions on working ability are often big for people, and it would be good if decision-making and raising the competence of decision-makers were more transparent than is currently the case. As early as 2015, I asked a written question on this subject on the basis of public feedback, and apparently this answer is the same as it is today that studies are being carried out on this matter and that efforts are being made to improve practices. Therefore, the qualifications of the doctors used by Kela should be readily available, I repeat. Hopefully, the government will take steps to develop insurance doctors in a much more transparent and fair direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u106	Mr President! I'm sure every one of us has received many, many letters this autumn from people who have felt that they have been treated unfairly. They feel unable to work, they may have more doctor’s reports on the matter, and yet when you apply for an invalidity pension you will have a shell casing. This is an important issue to deal with, and the experience of these people cannot be underestimated, but the solution for transferring responsibility for decisions to doctors in charge is very difficult. Now it is worth remembering that nursing doctors and insurance doctors have a completely different responsibility and a completely different competence. It is easy to understand that these individual rejection solutions are difficult to understand and it is difficult to understand these differences in qualifications as well, but the problem is that disability is not a medical diagnosis but is always a legal concept. The real problem is that we have legislation with as many as 11 different definitions of disability. We have health insurance law, we have TyEL, we have state and municipal practices, we have seamen's pension law, Kela's disability pension scheme, accident pension, life rate, and all of these have a different definition of disability. The difference between the public and the private side is particularly problematic. Let me take an example. Let's get a bus driver who's having a seizure. If he/she works on the public side of the municipal or state payroll, he/she immediately receives an invalidity pension from his/her first scene. If he works for a private bus company, he does not receive an invalidity pension, but then, on the contrary, he goes on to investigate what could be done to rehabilitate him for another job. So we have a very different concept of disability on the public and private side. Another illustration is that more than one third of the private side applications are rejected, only a good fifth of the public side applications are rejected. This describes the diversity of these concepts. When we talk about assessing working capacity, it has a wide range of areas of expertise. The clinician is generally familiar with the patient’s illness, the treatment given, the disability caused by the disease, and is able to describe the prognosis of the disease as to how it is progressing. The occupational health doctor, on the other hand, knows or should at least know the health requirements of the employee’s work, the possibilities of organising work and the various forms of social security support for partial work. On the other hand, the insurance doctor is familiar with social insurance legislation, the previous solution line, the practice followed by the appeal bodies and also rehabilitation, as well as these 11 different interpretations of legislation on disability. The insurance doctor's job is unthankful. Anyone applying for an invalidity pension must feel genuinely in need of it. However, the insurance doctor will have to relate the individual case to the whole and try to find in the doctor’s statements facts that will enable him to draw a conclusion on this particular person and his career. He will have to assess the impact of the disease on the applicant's ability to function and on the requirements of the job, but also on the trade union and the system to which he belongs. Of course, insurance doctors don't work as well as they do, but they're also under the supervision of the authorities. Financial supervision and, of course, appeal bodies, and not least publicity. Publicity is probably a pretty effective way of getting things moving forward. Changes are also requested. Around 60 % of those who reject an appeal to the Board of Appeal are subject to changes in about 15 % of these applications. About 50% of those on the Board of Appeal who have received a rejection decision re-appeal to the insurance court, which still changes about 20% of the applications. In other words, insurance doctors readily admit that they are not always in a position to make the right conclusion, and that is why insurance doctors from different insurance companies are now cross-appreciating their own interpretations in order to reach a situation in which their final interpretations are as accurate as possible. However, this interpretation is hampered by the fact that the feeling of incapacity for work is influenced by a wide range of factors, including the fact that there are major changes in working life and that there is insufficient experience of such changes. If there is a bad working environment, if you experience bullying, are bitter for some reason, or experience a lack of motivation, all of these influence a person’s feelings about their own ability to work or their inability to work, and these are very difficult to assess medically and legally in particular. I am glad that this bill has been put in place, although I am not in favour of it. I am glad that disability costs nearly EUR 4 billion a year in Finland. It is in the common interest of all of us to have as many people who feel unable to work back as possible or to have a more permanent solution to their situation. Fewer than 30,000 people apply for an invalidity pension each year and fewer than 19,000 are transferred to an invalidity pension and, in total, over 150,000 people have received an invalidity pension in Finland. It is for these very reasons of price and human suffering that we should at least invest in maintaining partial working capacity, and much has been done. All parties, including occupational doctors and insurance doctors, agree that we have undergone major changes in recent years. When we talk about, for example, job skills management, early support models, improved management work, the generalisation of partial benefits, and when we talk about improved occupational health care, different cooperation and occupational health care between special care and work, and also about occupational pension rehabilitation, which is now starting earlier than before and whose performance has been maintained, it is very clear that in recent years the number of people transferred to disability pension has decreased, while the number of people receiving different rehabilitation has increased, and this rehabilitation is an excellent means of maintaining even partial working capacity. I therefore believe that the main problem is not the ability or inability of insurance doctors to interpret the essence of the disease, but our mixed legislation on the interpretation of disability. If we have 11 different interpretations of disability, it is quite unreasonable to put this interpretation work on the shoulders of an ordinary health centre doctor when the problem is solved. That is why it is not the right way to pass on responsibility to those who, through their training or work experience, do not have knowledge of legislation in terms of definitions of disability, but we must work in this Chamber to harmonise rules and interpretations. There are good proposals here to move the matter forward. In fact, I would conclude with what Mr Risto Pelkonen said. He has said this: "The doctor must be a healer on the patient's side, as a human being very close, but as an expert at a sufficient distance."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder very much about the role of the insurance doctors in Kela and insurance companies in identifying the situation of a person on the basis of mere papers and their right to reverse the diagnosis or disability of doctors who are treating them. For example, we are all well - known Kela sends people rejection decisions on sickness allowance, even if the doctor’s certificate and documents provided by the person state that he is ill and that his or her ability to work is not enough at that time even for part-time work due to his or her health. Kela's negative decisions are justified by an assessment made by its own experts on the basis of patient papers. In Finland, the training and competence of doctors is of high quality. However, why do Kela and insurance companies not trust treating doctors? The humane treatment of people in Finland would be strengthened if Kela and insurance companies were to grant a benefit or compensation on the basis of a doctor's opinion if they were unable to prove that the diagnosis was incorrect. Mr President! People are constantly faced with unreasonable situations when, according to their doctor, they are ill and are on sick leave and the insurance doctor says they are able to work and the sickness allowance is not paid. He should go to work or seek employment at the TE Office as an unemployed job seeker. You can't go to work when you're sick, and you don't get paid. The Employment and Economic Development Office, on the other hand, does not pay unemployment benefit to a person who is ill or who has a valid employment relationship and is therefore not available to the labour market. Due to the decisions of Kela’s insurance doctors, people end up in a completely broke state. Even families with children and single parents are completely without money. This is really irresponsible and cold. The worst contacts I've ever had have come from people who've spent a whole year without getting any money. The fact that a person has underage children to support must also be seen in Kela’s papers. However, it is not crossed that the survival of a person is viewed and provided for, even though today Kela is responsible for granting income support. How on earth can you recover from an illness when unpaid bills control and knock on the back of a person’s head? With their decisions, Kela and insurance companies cause people to go into recovery, worry, grief and exclusion. Mr President! The streamlining of legislation, or deregulation, is one of the key projects of the Sipilä Government. We have talked beautifully about the objectives of facilitating the daily lives of citizens by reducing and reforming bureaucracy. The elimination of genuine bureaucracy should lead to timely services, the prompt adoption of fair decisions, the smooth running of things and the facilitation of people's daily lives. However, nothing has happened in concrete terms yet. I hope for an end to the culture of action that pops people and the attitude of the authorities that detracts from the customer. Discontinuation of income during illness, unemployment, studies, etc. is a serious problem and needs to be addressed. Our society is based on the fact that basic income is guaranteed for everyone, and no one can be dropped without subsidies and no social safety nets. However, this is what is happening at the moment. I support both these legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u108	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank both the authors of the legislative initiative — here are two separate legislative initiatives. I would also like to thank Mr Järv for his very analytical speech. In my own speech, I will address only some of the issues and problems that have already been raised in this debate in relation to insurance doctor activities. The distress and despair caused by the negative decisions taken by insurance doctors is probably one of the greatest contact with us in the House, and it is true that the Member of Parliament, at least I myself, often experiences a great deal of powerlessness when he is unable to help forward. As has already been pointed out here, one of the main problems is that there may not have been sufficient studies in the first place, so that this cycle of bounces and the cycle of prolonged handling begins. Consequently, the length of time for dealing with complaints is quite unreasonable, and the problem is certainly largely due to decisions being taken without seeing the person himself. Now, Mr President, I do not think that my speech will last less than half a minute so that I can get down to that toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u111	Mr President! First of all, thank you both to Mr Ronkainen and to the representative. On this very important legislative initiative and bringing this whole package to the debate. I came to this because I am also the signatory of the initiative, and because I was here in the late '90s as a representative of the Parliament as an assistant to Kankaanniemi, and at the time Mr Kankaanniemi asked the citizens for letters about how they felt that they had been treated by Kela in these different kinds of disease-related solutions. That flood of letters filled our entire room. This is where the agency assistants said they're gonna be all boxed up, these letters. I will mention just one of these. It was a letter in which a person told of his incapacity for work, found by seven specialist doctors — seven specialist doctors. Then, however, it was her decision that she was able to work, and she was sent to work. Well, this person got into one job with the city and the municipality's trial money. But after he had been there for one hour, he was returned home with a taxi ride and a written cover: "Dangerous to himself and to his work community". This was just the tip of the iceberg from the reality in which we live, and to which I hope that this tip of the debate will now be attached, and that is that these virtual doctors of Kela who, without seeing the person, are leading to such a vast gap between the citizens' sense of justice and reality, that I very much hope that this and these initiatives will lead to a debate in the committees, perhaps the situation will arise where the government will take over this matter and this will be the subject of a law that will then come into this Parliament and bring about this change so that these virtual doctors of Kela can genuinely face these people, as has been said here, who make these decisions. I think that would be a minimum, and then the responsibility would come that they would actually have to take a medical oath after having taken a responsible oath to make these decisions. That is what I hope for, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u112	Mr President! The situation in which the insured person loses the benefits due to the assessment of the insurance doctor is always heavy. It is possible to appeal the decisions of insurance companies through the Board of Appeal and the Insurance Law to the Supreme Court. In addition, for example, the claims disputes of injury in a car accident can be dealt with by district court and then by court and supreme court. However, the appeal process may take more than ten years and will mean a period of financial uncertainty for the insured person. A legal battle for your own health and livelihood in the event of illness or disability is extremely burdensome for a person. The insured person is also placed in an unequal position, as the insurance institution often has more resources and expertise in both medicine and insurance law. In addition, there is a financial conflict of interest in insurance activities when an expert working for an insurance institution makes estimates that may affect the benefits paid by the insurance institution. Insurance companies deny benefits, especially in the case of accidental brain injuries. Despite clear clinical signs, brain injuries are difficult to diagnose by medical imaging methods. Insurance burdens the legal system and delays the right compensation and assistance. Vesa Laukkanen, a lawyer specialising in brain injury cases, has taken 138 brain injury cases to a final decision in his legal profession for 15 years. According to Laukkanen, brain damage cases have been successful at 97% either in reconciliation or in court. This reflects the very good professional skills of treating doctors, but there is a problem with the system if legal redress is required. Mr President! What initially aroused me to the injustice of this system was the case of Sarah Auvise. In the summer of last year, I read in a newspaper about a young rider who suffered moderate brain damage after falling off a horse. Based on up to ten different neurologists The disadvantage rate of Auvise’s injury was found to be 11, which means severe disability. However, the insurance company LähiTapiola considers Auvis to be capable of working and the disadvantage of disability to be less than two. It is incomprehensible how an insurance doctor, with his testimony, can even walk over a neurologist at a university central hospital. After taking a public stand on the matter, I got a huge feedback rush from people. Hundreds of e - mails, phone calls, and even letters that people had attached to the statements of nursing doctors and rejection decisions — all in the same situation fighting with the insurance company for their compensation. According to reports, this issue directly or indirectly affects a large number of citizens, even half a million Finns. It is extremely important that we finally make the present system just.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u113	Mr President! The bill amending Article 121 of the Employment Accidents and Occupational Diseases Act and the Act on Insurance Law signed by Jari Ronkainen and many others is extremely timely and good. Although I have not signed this initiative, I do have the courage to defend it, and I say that during my own work experience, decades before these days, I have come across a few cases of this kind, not just in close proximity but in work-related matters, in many cases, and indeed to Mr Ronkainen, a great honour in raising the issue. There are many of these cases, and, unfortunately, as has been said, in all cases that have been resolved to the end, the result has not been good, but in most cases justice has been obtained, if not otherwise, through the right of insurance, because, in that case, it is an extremely unfair situation for such a person who has been caught in this tragic circle of argument in the court of law as to whether his injury is serious or even mild. In the worst case scenario, it could put the entire family's economy on the brink of bankruptcy. Unfortunately, there are too many of these cases, absolutely too many. There shouldn't be any. For example, on a business trip, a person may become disabled — I followed one incident near where, as a result of an accident on the way to work, a person was virtually incapacitated, and now, according to the latest information I have received, he has received a pension decision that he is unable to work, and for him this battle has ended victoriously, but it only took years and years to get things right. But how from now on? When Mr Ronkainen's initiative, signed by many other representatives, has received strong support, I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will intervene and express a strong opinion on this matter and will take the bill forward. I'm not sure, I haven't calculated how many signatories this bill has, but it's probably less than a hundred. In any case, however, this must be resolved if it is not otherwise, even if the government has to take this initiative or at least give it to the next government for the next government programme, because the fates of people cannot be played around indefinitely and the person who has been seriously disabled and who suffers from it and cannot get to work should be punished more for the fact that his legal status, for example, with regard to pensions or compensation, is left open. I think that is a very cruel situation. And what should be developed is definitely the fact that doctors from insurance companies and then doctors from pension insurance companies and occupational doctors and all the doctors involved in this matter need to have some sense or line of action to make this decision, so that, as Mr Ronkainen mentioned, the opinion of the chief medical officer of a university hospital should not be overturned by an insurance doctor. There is a fundamental difference between these two doctors that an insurance doctor hardly has ever seen his patient, whereas a university doctor must have studied his patient for years and taken all possible imaging pictures that the current technology can do. In other words, there is no doubt about it and, unfortunately, there are still some of these in our society. But I hope that this bill will succeed and one day see even the day that this burning sore thing will be removed from the order of day, the rights restored to these people who have lost them by accident. Losing one’s ability to work is a tremendous shock to a person, both mentally and physically, and when one still finds himself in this kind of court cycle in his own matter, it is cruel. Mr President! Finally, I hope that when people are injured in various accidents at work or in leisure accidents: one thing that may have been overlooked is that when people are rehabilitated, this initial rehabilitation after that accident must be done more by society, because it is necessary to get better of the injury during the first few months of good rehabilitation and good care. I myself have experience of it in a work accident, and when I got very good treatment for it and rehabilitation, my mobility came back and I got back to work without that help and caring for society at the time. I still thank the doctors in my municipality for taking the matter seriously and for giving me rehabilitation and then returning to work. This is the same procedure and good luck I wish others, and I hope that this bill will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u114	Mr President! We have had excellent speeches here, thank you for them. I am thinking of these stories, which I myself have had many dozens of, and there are quite unacceptable human situations behind each of them. One person this week sent a message saying that they are just like the tip of an iceberg. These people who have approached us have had the opportunity and the strength to approach us, but the doubt is that indeed not everyone will be able to approach us, let alone even be able to go to the appeal boards or from there to the insurance court. Of course, in this respect, we must recognise the extent to which this affects the population. It is not very simple to solve this case of insurance doctors. In 2014, a study was carried out by Minister Risiko to develop the insurance doctor system, and this was done by a working group. Some of these things have been corrected, and many points are still missing. But I would almost suggest that a list of measures should be drawn up to this effect — starting immediately from the initial survey when a person is in an accident or similar situation — about what needs to be done differently and starting from a procedural point of view, from a human point of view, about what points in the process require correction and correction. There have already been many concrete examples of this in this Chamber, but I am raising one more point of view when we are also ignoring the expertise of doctors. We have had a study which has found that, in the case of basic doctors who make these interpretations of the ability to work and function, quite a few people feel that there is insufficient knowledge of the way in which assessments are made. This Risiko report stated that a working group should be set up to prepare for the establishment of a university course in insurance medicine, and professorship has also been proposed, and these activities are still to be carried out. On the other hand, one might wonder that these measures are rather slow-acting, that they do not solve the problem very quickly, and in the longer term they will certainly provide a small solution, but they will not solve the problem as a whole. It is clear that the whole process must be reviewed and it must be carried out with an open mind, not that even if insurance companies are going to say that there is no need to do anything about it. Everyone here must take responsibility and, above all, insurance companies must take this seriously. This is a question of trust, of public confidence in the system, which is why insurance companies must also consider how to redeem this trust and what to do about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u115	Mr President! I am absolutely convinced and certain that none of us in this Chamber wants to underestimate the feelings of those people who feel unable to work and who, however, get a rejection decision. Those stories are sad to read. It involves a lot of human suffering, economic problems and despair about the future — not half a word against it. But what gets a little confused in this debate is that disability is not a medical diagnosis, it is a legal concept, and we cannot give this responsibility to all doctors in Finland even jointly and severally, but it requires their own knowledge of law. As I said, people are treated differently and different definitions of disability apply to them, depending on whether they are blind, whether they are a sailor, whether they work for the government or whether they work for a private employer. I personally find this distinction between the public and the private side particularly problematic. Just now I took as an example a bus driver who is having an epilepsy attack, and I told him that if he is working on a private side, he will not be able to get an invalidity pension, but he will consider other possible ways of doing what he could do in his life in the future. If this bus driver has reached the age of 60, then he will be interpreted on the same basis as a State worker, and then he will be entitled to an invalidity pension. But these legal practices are so complex and detailed that they are challenging even to insurance doctors, not to mention the ordinary person who is making the disability pension application. For example, last year there were 18,800 of these persons who are transferring to an invalidity pension. Illnesses are the main cause of musculoskeletal disorders — about one third of them — but almost as much is involved in mental health and behaviour disorders, and it also highlights the fact that we have a lot to do with various preventive measures to make people more comfortable and able to do their own work even better. The problem of the interface between disability and disability pension and work is also disturbed by the fact that fewer and fewer jobs today require precise health requirements. For example, we have a lot of different telephone services that are enough to be able to talk to the phone. The eligibility for employment is assessed on a number of different criteria and it does not facilitate that in some cases work is a healthier option than unemployment. Things are neither black and white nor in any way easy, and yet the fate of these people who have applied for disability pension and who have received a shell casing is real, and we all want to take that seriously. One option for many may be part-time disability pension, which has become more common, especially for older workers and, as Finns still age from this, may become more common. For many, it is a good way to reduce the burden of work, and if home conditions are still difficult, then together, lightened work alongside its home life may be just enough to make it work better. In young people, it is also used in connection with a variety of chronic diseases, such as ms- disease or diabetes. In general, it requires a reduction in working capacity by two fifths. But the problem is not the wrong decisions of the insurance doctors themselves, but the fact that they have to assess disability from the legal point of view and not from the diagnosis of their client, and that makes this situation problematic. As I told you, about 60 percent of those who have been rejected appeal to the Board of Appeal. About 15% of decisions change there. About half of those who have received a casing from the Board of Appeal are seeking a new solution to the insurance law, and some 20% of these decisions are still changing there. The good thing and the great thing is that the various insurance companies have themselves gone out to assess their own actions together and cross-examine the cases, which definitely increases the reliability of the system as a whole. The appeal system plays a major role not only as a reprocessor of applications and in ensuring legal certainty for the applicant, but also in harmonising the practice between these pension insurers. It also steers the decision-making process in the event of changes in medicine, treatment, working life and legislation. In the final analysis, however, it is the application of the will of the legislator. I strongly believe that although I cannot support this bill, I am glad that it comes to Parliament. Now we all have a place to look in the mirror in how we could clarify the current system with 11 different definitions of incapacity for work. If the insurance doctor can't always explain it, you can't even explain it to a congressman, not to mention a client who needs a decision in a situation where his own troubles are still a disadvantage. We have many difficult questions about this. There is a fundamental problem with the structure of the system. The solution is often made far away from the applicant, and a good question is how to improve the applicant's involvement. I think it is a good suggestion that the insurance doctor should meet the client once, because when I have talked to the doctors, I have learned that quite a few rejection decisions have been allowed to call them. After hearing on the phone the arguments that come under the accent of plain language and tone of voice, many will understand the solution in those circumstances, even though it has sounded inhumane since it arrived at home on paper. Well, then, the difficult question is also the health queues and what is happening wrong. In fact, I would like to finish my presentation this time on these healthcare lines. Currently, fewer than 30,000 people apply for disability pension each year. Now we are dealing with a government initiative in the committees on an active model, which means that every unemployed person must work a week during a three-month period of unemployment or employ the same time as an entrepreneur or take part in labour market policy measures. If he does not do this, his unemployment benefit will be cut by 4.65% for the next 65 days. In practice, this means that in many places where the employment authorities are unable to provide labour market policy measures, courses, training and so on, in places where there are no genuinely open jobs and this definition cannot be implemented, one real alternative to getting out of this condition is left, and, ladies and gentlemen, it is linked to an invalidity pension, because every person seeking an invalidity pension is exempted from this qualifying period. In practice, therefore, it means that every unemployed person who is unable to find employment who is unable to participate in labour market policy measures, for example because they are not available, should go online, click on the disability pension application, because during the period during which the pension application is being processed, it is not possible to be covered by this threshold. With these words I hope that the government could once again wonder whether there could be a slightly smarter and more functional model than an active model that puts people in a completely unequal position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u116	Mr President! First of all, thanks to the representatives of Ronkainen and Lauslahti for their legislative initiatives on the amendment of Article 121 of the Accident and Occupational Diseases Act and the Act on Insurance Law. This is a debate that society needs, and I believe that these two legislative initiatives already have the positive effect that insurance companies and us politicians and hopefully the government will start to sound the bells of conscience and some action will be taken. I hope that these legislative initiatives will become reality and that the government will take this on its own agenda and take it forward. I've both signed it myself. It is quite clear, as Mr Ronkainen has pointed out here, that when 97% of brain injury proceedings have turned to the benefit of the applicant, it is a harsh language about the unfair and impossible situation. It cannot be that in court a case is won at 97% and insurance companies do nothing about it. I'd say this is where I question the doctor's oath. I am not going to show any doctor, I appreciate the medical community myself when they have to use their services, and yes, there are skilled people there. But this lack of face in decision-making, when the applicant is not face - to - face, makes decision - making unbelievable. As Mr Järvinen said, that is one thing, and meeting a patient or an applicant brings credibility to this decision-making process, but it certainly does not help anything in these percentages when the figures are so cruel to what has been said in patients with brain damage. At this point — not in order to lighten up or in any way to criticize insurance doctors — I say, however, that when you ask what the difference is between a fake doctor and an insurance doctor, the difference is that the fake doctor has seen the patient but the insurance doctor does not see him. That is why fake doctors have been very successful in their work for years, because decision-making and meeting a patient become that credibility and that decision is not called into question so that it is worth comparing them with one another. But I cannot help but add a little to Mr Järvinen's view that there is something to reform and better to do in this whole system, for example in view of the deterioration in the ability of older people to work, which means that part-time disability pension becomes an option. As we are now doing secondary education reform, I would like us to have such proactive action here, alongside the detection of part-time disability, that insurance companies pay part of the working time to this person, so that the work burden can be reduced by a shorter working day, and the rest of this working time — in the case of musculoskeletal disorders, which are the most common causes of disability — these people could be there in the secondary education reform, the resource that would take responsibility for learning at work. This wage cost would be paid by the employer and then by us as a society, in a sense, by means of an item of teaching, so that we would make it possible for the secondary education reform to succeed at the workplace, because at least at the moment there are no resources at all for the SMEs, between 15 and 30 people, from the point of view of the company that can remove someone from the productive work who teaches. Employers should see their own responsibility to promote the skilled workforce of the company, but I believe that with one of these models, a person is still in work and does not abandon his part-time disability pension because he still has to work in it and give it a lighter path and allow young people to be trained in the profession. Mr President! Once again, thank you to those who have taken the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u117	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here today. A few points on which I would like to comment: So we've been talking about appeal boards. When I have examined the compositions, there are persons sitting on the boards who are in the management positions of insurance companies. That, in my view, raises a little question as to whether it is an impartial body or not. The second point is that — Mr Järvinen spoke of legal and medical grounds — I believe that if a person goes to the country of the project, for example, sick leave is granted on medical grounds. Insurance companies can make decisions on legal grounds, but at that point violins are paid for by society. So you can't just leave these people behind, can you? All in all, Mr President, I would like to express my thanks to the representative. For Lauslahti, good cooperation and, of course, for all 57 signatories to the initiative, as well as for the other supporters of the initiative and also for those who participated in the debate. Members of parliament who have signed are on the whole of the party field, which indicates that we are on a common agenda. The speeches that have been heard here, as well as the huge amount of public feedback, have shown how important this is. I very much hope that the committee will take account of the lunches that have been heard today and will start preparing a legislative amendment that will bring us together to a better end. Insurers who suffer from the activities of insurance companies deserve faster and fairer treatment. Thank you for a good conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u118	Mr President! As my name was mentioned, I would like to make it clear that two different things are being discussed when it comes to sick leave and disability pension. Let's just take a cleaning lady who hurts her leg and can't do her own cleaning. It is clear that he will then be on sick leave. But when we start thinking about his potential incapacity for work, there are quite different things to be said about, and especially if he is working on the private side — but also on the public side — then we wonder whether there are any jobs that he would still be able to do despite his foot problem. And that's why you can't compare these two things to each other. But like Mr Ronkainen, I very much hope that this will get a proper debate and debate and that we will be able to take decisions in this House to harmonise the concept of disability in legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u119	Mr President! As a former secretary of employment, you have to take one word for it, and it is a sick leave. Of course, in the national language we understand what it is, it is incapacity to work, and that is why a person is exempted from work with that medical certificate, but it is not a holiday.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u120	Mr President! That is where Mr Järvinen said that these sick leave and disability should be treated here as separate matters, but unfortunately this is not the case. So even now, when a person becomes ill, even if he receives a three-month sick leave certificate from his doctor and takes it to work, the employer cannot, of course, take a sick person to work, but Kela’s insurance doctor decides that this person is fully capable of working and that the person does not receive sickness allowance. In other words, this also affects a wider group than only those seeking disability pension. I think it is very important that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health examines this issue in depth on a number of different points. Various aspects have been raised in this debate. This problem in paragraph 11 of Mr Järvinen, too, is clearly something that we have to define more clearly and unambiguously. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will take this issue seriously and seriously. It is an indication to people that they are being listened to and respected, and this injustice that has been happening for years is being corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u121	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u122	Mr President! This bill proposes to amend Article 8 of the Guarantee Pension Act in such a way as to increase the guarantee pension by EUR 45 per month. This is also part of the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group. According to the latest data, there are about 700,000 at risk of poverty in Finland today. This means that some 700,000 people are in a situation where they can sink into so-called statistical poverty, which means that their income is less than 60% of the median income. There are currently 400,000 people and some 300,000 so - called poor people in income, and then some 100,000 of these poor people are still excluded. This information is from yesterday's seminar organised by the Parliament's poverty group on Finland's 100th anniversary — the development of poverty. For the past 20 years, the income gap has grown. This means that all groups in Parliament have, in their own time, been involved in permitting and happening this phenomenon, i.e. we all have a political responsibility for what is happening in Finland. So for the past 20 years, the income gap has grown. The new phenomenon is that regional disparities, income disparities within cities are now increasing regionally. It is a new phenomenon that there are really poor neighbourhoods in large cities, where it can be seen that exclusion is a particular problem. Mr President! The income of low-income pensioners must be improved more than the government's proposal. Currently, the guarantee pension is around EUR 760 and after this proposal it would be slightly over EUR 800. It is estimated that if such a system of basic income were to come in Finland, about EUR 1,000 would enable people to live in Finland in such a way that they would not be eligible for subsidies. I do not know whether we will ever make progress on this issue, but it will add to our pain that it is much easier to obtain these different statistical data today than it was before and it will be easy for us to monitor this development of poverty as well. Our proposal would cost some EUR 51 million, but it would also reduce income support expenditure and also increase tax revenue, with a total burden of EUR 38 million. Mr President! My mother, 89 years old, worked hard all her life. On average, he had three full - time jobs all the time. Yet his pension is just under EUR 800. I do not believe that this society of ours would be destroyed or economically devastated or would be in a major recession or even impoverished if we decided systematically to increase the number of these small pensions, for example by suggesting that within five years we would raise them to a certain level. I think it would be the right thing to do. Finland is celebrating 100 years of its own time, independence, and I think it might be a good decision to make. I do not know whether there will then be a majority in this House, but somehow it would seem right for those people who have built this country, especially after the wars, in very difficult circumstances and situations, to experience the well-being that we can experience today, and that is why even this modest increase in the guarantee pension would help them in some way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u123	Mr President! This bill for raising the guarantee pension slightly more than proposed by the government is a well-founded pension proposal, but I believe that this issue of guarantee pension should be addressed by the Finnish Parliament, just as Mr Laukkanen mentioned in his speech. This is the case that we have some 100,000 people in Finland who are receiving a national pension and who are receiving a very small pension at the moment. After all, a large number of people enjoy a certain degree of occupational pension, some better, others worse, but of course the occupational pension is the main line — the occupational pension or disability pension that they have acquired during their lifetime. This is why the talk in this house that every person should have a job and a real job is justifiable, just because a person does not have to spend a very, very small retirement of his old age, but even have some degree of occupational pension cover when he retires. That is why all the efforts to increase the number of unemployed people are a well-founded objective and I hope that Parliament will continue to take it seriously. What is the level of guaranteed pension, the minimum pension should be — it is a little localised with which a person can cope. I'm sure you won't be able to handle it for 1000 euros in Helsinki. Even if the guarantee pension is 1000 euros a month, it can't do it here, but somewhere in Ilomantsi where living is cheap and able to buy food at a reasonable cost and use natural gifts, visit berries and mushrooms and so on, as the 1000 euros retired will certainly do reasonably well. So this is very localized how you're doing when you're retired. In any case, this current guarantee pension, EUR 760 per month: it is good that it has been raised to this level and that the government is still raising it. I have always wondered, however, that there are always those who oppose it in this House — that it should not be raised — because I think it is a national shame, in its own way, that this minimum pension should not be increased at once. It would cost between 200 million and 300 million extra money if it were to be raised to EUR 1000 for a monthly pension, a minimum pension. In any case, this is something that Parliament should focus on, because even the last few years of human life, retirement years, would seem to be of reasonable value so that during that time a person is still able to enjoy his life and even to travel a little. But this current level of guarantee pension, EUR 760, is indeed too low. I understand that the pressure on government finances is severe and that we are living on debt, but one day when we will have more of that ability to pay, I think it is a valuable and well-seeming situation for this guarantee pension to be put right at once. After all, occupational pensions go their own way, and that is why I hope that — while we are here alone with the representative of the opposition, in addition to the President — there will be a warm cooperation between the current opposition and the current government, which will gradually put this issue of small pensions in order, because for people living on very small pensions, there will be a large sum of EUR 10. I hope that the guarantee pension will actually be increased and one day the situation will be created, that the guarantee pension will go up to around EUR 1000, which I think would be such a minimally good sum. This initiative will not correct it, but the good thing about the bill signed by Mr Tanus and others is that it will come to debate, and I very much hope that one day that debate will turn into the right decision in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u124	Mr President! Thank you for also saying here that the representative of the Government Party is saying this poverty of pensioners, a truly sad situation and that it needs to be corrected. I would also like us to talk about an increase in the guarantee pension, although this initiative is very much to be welcomed. But as just such a proposal now on the government front: could we very quickly draw up a programme of measures to reduce pensioner poverty and secure the livelihood of pensioners, paying particular attention to the position of older women and pensioners in this programme, in addition to these guaranteed pensions and in this programme, as part of this package, to find out the options for raising levels of national pensions and tax changes, and to find out the impact of housing, services and service contributions on their financial situation? I would hope that such a programme will be decided together between all the parties as soon as possible and that we will have it on the table next spring and therefore improve the status of those receiving a small pension. Then to the very end, President: I am also concerned about the future, because this youth unemployment, which is now, will make it possible for us to have a very large number of poor pensioners in the future. At the moment, our young people are not raising pensions because they are not working, and this is a very big threat to our future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u125	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Taavitsainen, for your constructive words. When the government has taken many measures during this period to genuinely create new jobs, and I have unfortunately heard a great deal of opposition from the opposition to these measures, I do understand that it is behind my political jargon that it should be opposed, even though it is a joy to resist, but the serious thing about this is that such a programme of action to combat poverty or to reflect on action programmes — how to take genuine measures to improve the position of people — is quite a positive idea. But we have to say the same thing, and at the same time we have to acknowledge that today in Finland we should have a programme to check the real cost of this social concentration and concentration in one place. There is no point in this country any longer in wanting everything here in the capital region and every reasonable person knows that, for example, rents in this city are on the same level that, for example, even now a young nurse with a normal salary is about to scurry with their expenses and housing costs and other costs. Just a little bit of a starter nurse’s salary — or a bus driver, and the same applies to a builder, anyone. Thus, if we are going to combat poverty with a programme, we must recognise that this trend towards the development of Finnish society is wrong. By this we cause Finnish people to lose the value of the dwellings they own elsewhere in Finland, whereas instead they have to live here in a small one-room apartment, which I already consider with some experience here as an inhumane form of living in a small one-room apartment. Although this pain is made easier by the fact that when you have a long day's work, that dream will taste as you do, and that little apartment won't mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-23-ps-123.u126	Mr President! Yes, we are definitely in the same line as Mr Hoskonen on this centralisation. As an Eastern Finnish MP, I really hope that more will be dispersed and a strong regional policy will be done so that we have good living and living in every place, work or retire there in Eastern Finland, Northern Finland. At the moment, many pensioners in particular are concerned about the fact that the values of housing in our eastern Finland are beginning to decline as the population declines, and there are no new entrants when there are no jobs, when pensioners who want to move to the city centre for better services cannot sell and are trapped in their own house in the countryside. This is related to pensioners' poverty and to this increase in the guarantee pension, so that they are unable to pay the single house with their pension income and its costs, especially in the event of being widowed on their own. If this concentration trend continues in Finland, these people will be in a very difficult situation when they are trapped with their homes, which they cannot afford. In other words, I hope, Mr Hoskonen, that in the government parties you will be able to drive this regional policy more strongly so that we can strengthen jobs and the regional economy in Eastern and Northern Finland.
