ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 1/2017 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 16 February 2017. In the general debate Mika Niikko Antero Laukkanen has suggested that the basis for the debate should be the 1st and 2nd parts of the objection. a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u2	We are now voting on the proposal on the basis of the debate. Anyone who agrees with the committee's proposal to reject the draft law will vote 'yes'; if 'no' wins, Mika Nikon's proposal has been accepted as the basis for the discussion of the draft law. If the ground motion contained in the objection is adopted, the Parliament will at the same time adopt the first draft law in accordance with Articles 1 and 2 and Sections 6 to 8 and 10 of Chapter 9 of the draft law and the entry into force provision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u3	Mr President! I tried to press the "yes" button, but it didn't work, the finger didn't work. I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u4	Enter on the record. I am sorry, it is now unclear whether Mr Zyskowicz has risen to the effect that he too voted incorrectly or for other reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u5	Mr. Speaker! It may be that I voted incorrectly, but I voted in accordance with my own view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u6	Copy that. That is exactly what the representative is doing. After voting in accordance with his view, Mr Zyskowicz stood up when others wanted to change their vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u7	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u8	Mr President! The gray economy is the enemy of the welfare state number one. [Murder ] The grey economy undermines the financing of welfare services and the morals of society. A precise assessment of the tax losses caused by the shadow economy is impossible, but it is clear that they are significant. The gross estimate of tax losses at the 2008 level, presented in the report of the Parliamentary Audit Committee for 2010, amounted to between EUR 2.5 billion and EUR 3.5 billion per year. Some experts estimate the amount to be even higher. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : honourable Members! You're there. You're having your own debates, but you're a representative. Myllykoski is here, in the place where the speeches are made in the parliament. I hope that you will respect the right that he has to speak in peace. ] We have an effective recipe for the informal economy of paid employment. In 2012, a tax number was introduced in the construction sector. Each employee must have a personal identification number with a tax number that allows anyone to check the employee’s membership in the tax number register. The tax number register is available to everyone online, and by entering it the tax number can be checked for employee membership in the register. Mr President! The construction tax number has been a good reform. The number of persons in the tax number register has risen to over one million. In early 2015, the tax administration carried out a study on the benefits of using the tax number procedure. According to a conservative estimate by the tax administration, the introduction of the procedure will achieve a tax benefit of around EUR 50 million per year. With the introduction of the tax number, the wages and salaries sum in the construction sector grew by 6.9 per cent in 2012, although the volume of construction decreased by 4.8 per cent at the same time. In the following year, the wages and salaries sum rose by another 0.2 per cent, although the construction volume fell by another 2.7 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u9	Mr President! The construction sector was previously known as a sector where work was carried out without employers’ fees and other statutory obligations and where work was carried out against so-called undeclared wages. In such a situation, these work-providers enjoy an overwhelming competitive advantage compared to honest entrepreneurs, and in such a situation, these recipients of undeclared pay generally passed through society through two channels: on the one hand, they raised wages without paying tax and, on the other hand, they increased social assistance, such as unemployment benefit, which would not have been entitled if these undeclared wages had been known. It is an excellent thing that the construction sector itself and the authorities have made considerable progress in the construction sector since then in the fight against the shadow economy, and this system of tax numbers has been very useful, and it is great that such progress has been made. I share the view that this tax number system has such positive experiences that it should be assessed whether it is not possible to extend it to other areas where such problems are common — or whether, for example, there are other, more effective ways of combating the black economy, such as in the restaurant sector or similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u10	Mr President! I think it is important that Mrs Myllykoski points out that we can make further progress in the fight against the shadow economy. The grey economy is a cancer that gnaws at the Finnish welfare state, but it also gnaws at the opportunity of honest entrepreneurs to work honestly, to succeed and to succeed, when chillers exploit both employees and the system by not paying taxes, social contributions and pension contributions, as they are supposed to pay. Mr President! The last one, Katainen's government introduced a tax number. At that time, we cooperated extensively in the fight against the shadow economy. In addition to the Left Alliance, one can mention, among other things, Minister Lauri Ihalainen, who was very active in that work. And now that we see the results of the construction industry, they do show that in areas with similar problems, tax numbers and other means of reducing the black economy and criminal activity must also be introduced. The big problem for Finnish society is that we are going to have a huge loss of income. If these are not addressed, this government has also had an adjustment by cutting on the other side. It would be fairer to cut the income of criminals than to cut the income of unemployed people, pensioners, students and families with children. I therefore hope that Parliament will give this bill a good reading,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u11	Mr President! About 20 years ago I was among the three MPs who proposed to hold a topical debate on the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime in Parliament. The other two MPs were Klaus Hellberg of the SDP and Minna Karhunen of the Coalition Party. There was a very lively debate, and then the moods and attitudes towards the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime were very different from today's. Even within the Tax Administration, there was such a debate as to whether it was right to set up special measures, whether it was right to set up a special unit to combat the shadow economy and tax crime, whether it was going through a normal tax audit procedure, and there was quite a lot of accusation from the business community that there was no justification for starting such an intensified fight against the black economy and financial crime, that things were pretty much in order. Fortunately, a lot has happened since then by many governments, and now everyone knows what was stressed back then in the late 1990s, that there are three reasons why we must fight financial crime and the black economy with our claws. The first is the tax and other losses, the financial losses that fraud companies, tax evaders and financial criminals impose on others — the losses needed to maintain the welfare state’s services and security. Another factor is that the shadow economy and financial crime distort competition. There is no way for an honest entrepreneur who, with his employees, is trying to survive in competition if, in the same quarter, entrepreneurs work in the same sector who fail to fulfil all their obligations in terms of wages, health and safety at work and all other obligations. That honest entrepreneur has absolutely no competitiveness. The third point that has already been highlighted in this debate is the danger to morals and ethics. If, in one generation, it turns into a common morale that it is all right to allow the grey economy, tax evasion and financial crime, it will destroy the financial base and morals of this welfare state in the long term. Therefore, all the measures taken over a long period of time have been effective and welcome. When it comes to the construction sector, the reverse charge of VAT and the tax number have been concrete, effective means. I fully agree with the objective of Mrs Myllykoski's legislative initiative to rapidly extend this instrument, which has undoubtedly been found to be effective in the construction sector. Although I was 17 years old in 1972 at the Hietalahti shipyard, I have started the shipbuilder’s work, I would stress that construction is also the construction of a ship. The risks involved in the construction sector in the non-compliance with the obligations also apply to the shipbuilding industry, other technology industries and other sectors. In other words, it is absolutely necessary to extend the use of this tax number to other sectors as quickly as possible, so that the chain of more efficient and improved means of combating the black economy and economic crime can continue and better use these tax euros than the pockets of tricksters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u12	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Uotila for the thanks you have given me for this bill. But I would now like to remind you that this is an initiative taken by a parliamentary group of the Left Alliance, in which I was the first to sign. This is the result of a campaign by our parliamentary group Tolkkua to work, and in that sense I am pleased that we have achieved this. During the last parliamentary term, we really made great progress in the fight against the grey economy and the introduction of the tax number. But 2014, when consideration was given to the introduction of a tax number for the accommodation and restaurant sectors, it was buried in anticipation of the introduction of the national income register in 2019. It's far too far away. Prime Minister Sipilä is concerned about poverty and exclusion and has set up a working group to consider it. I would like the government to take this tool in its hand, so that we can receive tax revenue immediately, so that we can combat exclusion and poverty more effectively than in the form of a working group. Now put the instruments in place, and let us begin this work to eradicate the black economy. I would like to emphasise once again, as has been pointed out in this speech: This is Finnish work on better chances for Finnish entrepreneurs to survive. At the same time, it means that we do not have such a potential for work-related crimes, which, even today, there is far too much going on in this country with regard to the foreign labour force, which are then likely to eliminate the employment potential of a Finnish worker.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u13	Mr President! Many good speeches have been heard here, thanks to the representatives of Myllykoski, Arhinmäki, Uotila and Zyskowicz. I don't have a lot of added value to this, quite a lot came out of it all. But this is a fact that the shadow economy is eating up the whole of society and could indeed be much better spent on these funds, which are now missing out or go for whatever purpose, these money and incomes that have been darkened. I have a lot of small business acquaintances who are in the restaurant industry and say that of course they themselves would like to have this number system introduced, because they feel that the competitive situation is not honest at the moment. Secondly, with regard to this fight against the shadow economy, if tax numbers reduce these cases, it will of course ease the burden on the police so that they can concentrate on other things. Every case that can be removed by such means reduces the police’s workload and can then really focus on other crimes or other police tasks. That's a very good initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u14	Mr President! I too think this is an initiative with good things, and it is nice to agree with the Left Alliance in this Chamber for a change. We're pretty much on the same page. In my opinion, Myllykoski, in particular, correctly patriotically spoke for the Finnish workforce, thanks for that. I myself have received quite a few contacts from the foreign labour force and foreign companies that Myllykoski here boldly mentioned. It certainly feels special if you look at the washing of a car: We have a Hesburger wash line in Turku where I sometimes visit, even though cars don't always get very clean. But it seems strange that at the same price it is then washed by hand next to it, and the same applies to a bit of pizzas and barbers and so on. So it seems strange how foreigners here, on the other hand, are able to set up such competitive companies. In itself, it is very good if asylum seekers, on the other hand, were to be innovative in setting up these services companies. Like I said, when I don't really feel cleaned up in the machine wash, it would be all right, I'd be happy to take it by hand. But then I want to know that there are all the obligations and taxes paid. This isn't going to work unless you pay taxes. In addition, I would stress the need for control, but it is precisely those companies that are required to carry out inspections, which is something that needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u15	Mr President! However, I would like to emphasise that illegal activities and non-compliance with business obligations are not just a problem for immigrants and non-national citizens. When attention was paid to this issue at the end of the 1990s, we had much less of this internationalisation, and even then the problem was screaming. Yes, the basic — I mean, not the basic Finnish, but the Finnish — ordinary people are prone to take advantage of these loopholes when it is possible to operate on the market in that way and distort competition and leave the obligations unattended, so it is certainly not the case. Otherwise, I am pleased that the representative: Tavio supports this left-wing group initiative, but a little bit of that tone, which was now directed specifically at people with foreign background.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u16	Mr President! The grey economy must be tackled, whether it is by the people of Finland, by companies of immigrant origin or by foreign companies. In all these cases, it is just as much a waste of opportunities for honest entrepreneurs as it is a waste of workers' rights and a loss of tax revenue. I would be very careful if I started to label that some groups of the population are engaged in a grey economy more than others, but I think that we should act strictly by means of controls, by means of legislation and by means of tougher sanctions on the black economy, by anyone. When much has been discussed, for example, about these Pitcheries and the price of pizzas that can be sold so that taxes have been paid, so often when you follow the activities of small entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs are employed as well as others. Even those who are paid, in fact, often work a much longer day, with more uncertain incomes, and often it seems that these small businesses are based on the fact that the entrepreneur is in a way being forced to exploit himself to do 12, 14, 16-hour working days in order to get its bread so that prices are reasonable. Often these are behind this, but at the same time it is important that there are other ways. For example, when talking about service sectors, the type approved cash registers should be introduced. The fact that we are always asking for a receipt with Mr Tavio is not just enough if there are no type-approved cash registers. In other words, this type of solution is needed where no one gets the advantage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u17	The debate is closed... — Excuse me, Congressman. Tavio again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-17-ps-9.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
