ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented at the second reading. This is based on the report SuVM 1/2017 vp of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The Grand Committee agrees with Parliament’s decision of 15 December 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u2	Mr President! This is a dark and sad day in Finland's history of alcohol policy. Last night, Minister Saarikko, here at the sitting, honestly told us that this proposal, which has now been adopted, increases the consumption and harm of alcohol, just as the explanatory statement of the government's proposal states that 'the effects of the reform on people's well-being and health are negative'. So Parliament consciously made a decision to cause suffering to families, children, to increase alcohol deaths — 150 deaths a year — alcohol diseases, assaults, drunken driving. And this is not just about alcoholics or large consumers, it is about anyone. Minister Risikko earlier admitted that if this 5.5% limit goes through, 170 more police officers will be needed on an annual basis. The Ministry of the Interior's section was voted on a moment ago, and the increase in the number of police officers was not accepted. What do we do now? How is the government now going to make up for this deficit? At the same time, gates were opened to distance selling, thus to foreign tax evasion and spirals, which could lead to the collapse of Alko's monopoly and the destruction of public health-based alcohol policy. Mr President! I come to the second reading to reject this unfortunate motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u3	Mr President! Following this decision, it is necessary to make a serious warning to the whole Chamber about the perhaps most fatal issue that this decision has led to, and that is that, in the case of distance selling, and hence in the case of Alko's status, the legal status has been left open. Since distance selling is not prohibited by law, the statement made by the Constitutional Committee in the opinion quoted in the report states: 'Article 8 of the Constitution states that no one must be held guilty of a crime or sentenced to punishment on the basis of an act not punishable by law at the time of the act'. This means that the new alcohol law does not prohibit distance selling. This means that what is likely to be the situation is that, now that the current situation has changed due to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, hardly any prosecutor is going to press charges against the person who is going to sell at a distance. It is therefore extremely important that this legal situation should be clarified quickly. And of course it would have been a responsible exercise of power to make a decision only
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u4	Mr President! I think it would have been reasonable if this issue were raised in this way, that we would have heard the arguments of the large committee as to why this model is going on when it is also time to question why it is urgent. If this is a budget law, then you could ask why this is happening: for example, yesterday in the debate, Minister for Security Risikko said that if this law goes through, we need more money for police and child protection. We've just closed the Home Office section, and I understand the police's money is there, which means that part of this is open. I hope that even here on the Child Welfare side will be those additional resources when we address the main point of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. But I have never been in a situation like this before: we have a conflict of reasoning and articles, and the whole Chamber says that we agree that distance selling is prohibited, but it cannot be put into place. I find this rather strange legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u5	Mr President! As you can see from the Minutes, there were proposals relating to the continuation of the expert consultation, there were proposals to send to the committees, and then there was the basis on which the matter was to be dealt with. However, I regret to say that, with this lack of a distance selling point, we are risking the future of Alko in Finland. I have to say that when we voted and those numbers 108-77 hit that board, I said here to my side mates that remember these numbers, these numbers began to bring down Alko's monopoly from Finland. This unclear and unjustifiable state, which is currently being created, is certainly a huge risk. It seems strange that this government, knowingly, wants to take such risks when, in this vote, we really had the opportunity to use the legal basis that the experts at the Ministry had prepared and which would have been quite right to add and which we voted on with those sad numbers 108-77. Many colleagues here have pointed out that what is happening in this situation? Indeed, we should take into account the inevitable needs of police and child protection, of the resources of many actors. It does seem very sad that just before Christmas we are making such decisions. We have various organisations' campaigns to discuss how great it would be to have a fresh Christmas for children and the whole family, and here this majority, 98 votes, was prepared not to want to [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u6	Mr President! Contrary to what has been said earlier, I personally see that this is a very happy and excellent day for Finnish alcohol policy. The decision taken by Parliament is a victory for the grocery trade, remote areas, malting barley farmers and also for the Finnish small brewing industry. This was an important decision, and I really cannot add anything to this except to thank Parliament and the great committee for having done and done this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u7	Mr President! This government has rightly been criticised for failing to face expert knowledge and decision-making on the basis of it. Today we are in a situation where expert knowledge and the assessment of the Constitution do not meet. I think it is a very serious place, fellow Members of Parliament, that, as far as distance selling is concerned, Parliament has drawn the conclusion in the debate that the constitutional assessment is not sufficiently taken into account. What is the kind of group of national parliamentarians who walk over the Constitutional Committee in committee? I think it is such a big question for democracy that these provisions should be clarified at a distance. I find the evaluation of the Constitutional Committee absolutely stunning. It states explicitly that 'if the intention is to criminalise distance selling, it must be provided for by a provision which complies with the principle of legality of Article 8 of the Constitution'. It further states explicitly that if, at the time of the act, there is no provision by law for a criminal offence and the characterisation is not sufficiently written, it will result in the act being unpunished. And the old law, which was already flattened in time, did not take a position with sufficient precision on such a new phenomenon of distance selling, and it has not been clarified here over the years except on the basis of case law. Now we are in a situation where it is assumed that this statement of the Constitution will actually nullify this preliminary ruling issued at the courts, and then the Finnish Parliament assumes that distance sales will then be allowed. I find it incomprehensible that there are other men here before such an important decision. Yes, Parliament needs to know whether distance selling is allowed or prohibited without waiting for the minister's decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u8	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I can tell you that the matter of distance selling was clarified when we had received the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It was clear from the opinions of the Legal Committee, the Economic Committee and the Constitutional Committee that now that this package of laws is open, the matter of distance selling must be clearly recorded in this law. As President, I proposed that this should be thoroughly reviewed. Among other things, I suggested that we conduct an expert consultation in writing and even in urgent order. I'm sure we would have received those statements within 24 hours. It was put to the vote. The government parties did not want to receive these expert opinions so that we could, on a better basis in the light of day, take decisions on how we deal with this law. This law is not a budget law; it is bound by government parties to the alcohol tax law. If it had now created a problem, you could well have done so with the alcohol tax law through an additional budget. This law could have been given time and done properly now, even if after the recess in February. This would certainly have been done in a couple of weeks, a month, in the order in which the good legislative procedure should be. I am truly sorry that I have had to look at this process. Now the rush has gone beyond careful preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u9	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The plenary session will be adjourned due to the meeting of the large committee and the session will resume at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u10	Continue the discussion in order of day 2. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u11	Mr President! In this context, we must return to this special treatment which has been the case with this legislation on alcohol. I still find it very problematic for Parliament's working methods that such a big issue was brought directly from the committee yesterday, without the representatives having access to the committee's report, and that at night we are going through an issue of this kind which has a very serious impact. This is also illustrated by the fact that the report of the large committee was not presented by anyone, although one might think that it had been consulted, [Fresh—The President-in-Office] I find it particularly problematic that Parliament is consciously adopting legislation that is not in line with the guidance given by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this matter. The advice was either to change the arguments which state that distance selling is not allowed, or to change the articles so that they say that distance selling is not accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u12	Mr President! I have never been involved in legislation with such a high level of alcohol as yesterday and today, quite literally. Of course, I can live with this decision, it does not affect me in any way, but the thousands of children and young people who suffer as a result of the increase in alcohol consumption are the thing that I think the government should follow after this legislation. We should set up some sort of record that we are following, for example, the way in which young people between 16 and 17 years of age who go to the restaurant industry for purposes other than studying, adapting or how it makes sense for them to work in such an environment up to 4 a.m. And, of course, if such records are made, it is only natural that there should be quite strict records of distance selling now, on Monday, when the matter is being continued, and in that sense I would like the members of the board to consider among themselves how to make this even appear to be a serious attempt on the part of the government to prevent the harm that this legislation creates.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u13	Madam President! For my part, I would also like to draw attention to this rather vague and vague order of procedure that has been taken up here in Parliament. It has not been good that this has been brought on an urgent schedule, that it has been discussed late in the night, that the decision taken by a large committee has not been presented or justified, especially as we know this problem yet, which relates to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on distance selling. President! I would also like to underline the fact that we are currently going through the budget sections and there is a situation here that the government itself has said that, with this legislation, the police need more money, child protection needs more money, and we have, just before that, caught up, for example, in the section of the Ministry of the Interior where these police funds are to be decided. This is quite contradictory and, for my part, I really also wonder what the urgency of such a large entity is, and I do not think it is acceptable to adopt these procedures which have been followed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u14	Mr President! Unfortunately, this whole examination of the alcohol law has not been a credit to Parliament. Both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights dealt with this issue of distance selling, and we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights stated quite clearly that these records, which were included in this law, are not sufficient, but that this issue should have been clarified once and for all when the whole of the alcohol law is under discussion. That is why, even today, in the large committee, when this issue was being discussed, we have proposed that expert consultations have now been held on this subject which, unfortunately, did not go through in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, even though there had been the hope that experts would have been consulted on this matter at a distance. However, the large committee reached a different position. In our view, this is regrettable and is not particularly honourable from a legislative point of view. This is a big question, and at its worst, there can also be very big risks. Therefore, it would have been justified that this issue should have been dealt with carefully in the light of day. There were no grounds, no reasons for this fire that had been deliberately created on the part of the government parties. This issue could have been dealt with with with time, and we would have liked this to have been dealt with in an honourable, proper manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u15	Madam President! I must say that the drafting of the law and the voting instructions were such that the peasant boy was amazed with them. I have to say that it is already a reflection of the beginning of this legislative process, how it has been very difficult and difficult for the government parties to seek solutions that could then be dealt with here. When changes take place in one day, it does not make any sense to Parliament either. The most regrettable thing about this is, however, that the right of distance selling — which was not considered, without listening to the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — was not firmly recorded. Now we are in a situation where case-law is taking place, assuming that Alko's monopoly will slowly break down. Of course, at the moment, there is a legal process involving the sale of mild alcohol for 4.7. Now that the percentage has been increased, that decision will probably not be taken in the judicial process, but something else will be done. Let us hope that the government will be able to clarify this in such a way as not to leave the market alone with this tragedy. As a whole, I cannot fail to say that there are no good elements in this reform, but this was sad. That is why I would like to criticise the fact that this distance selling has become a coercive part of this. I believe that there are some positive aspects to the proposal and I will continue to support them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u16	Mr President! I would like to raise two points here: an increase in the percentage limit and then a distance selling issue. It was mentioned here that this is a sad day and this is a warning to the people and how this can happen here. Now that we are talking about raising the percentage limit, Finland has been having this debate for years as to whether or not there should be a slightly wider range in the trade. Many of us before the parliamentary elections openly expressed their views. This is, so to speak, a matter for us politicians — whether it is a question of conscience or an exercise of purpose. In that sense, I do not understand what some people mean when they say that this is a serious warning or that there is a danger. This is a normal reflection, and the people have chosen us here, and today we voted strictly. Democracy has spoken, and in that sense the chatter has gone away. I do not see it as any wonder that we are voting on it. The second question is that of distance selling, which I am quite concerned about myself. I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and we have indeed stated that — when Article 8 of the Constitution was raised and the legal basis, that is to say, that there must be a criminal offence in the legislation, it cannot be merely in the explanatory statement — that this is still the case here, and with a rather strict vote, so that I do not know whether people have now understood the very thing in this section, because this has come at a rather rapid pace and this is in itself a rather complicated matter. Some have suggested that this should be referred back to the Constitutional Committee for this reflection on EU law, but it is not up to the Constitutional Committee to interpret EU law, it is ultimately a matter for the European Court of Justice, so I do not think that it would bring anything new to this. But this is a very serious problem. I would ask the government parties now to consider this, this cannot be left to court practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u17	Mr President! The government parties' approach to this issue had to be criticised for that sad outcome itself, but also from the point of view of the appreciation of Parliament's own work. The percentage limit and its effects had certainly been able for a long time, months, to consider and reflect, but the problems of distance selling were not known to the members of the committee until a week ago, as the members of the committee have said. After all, there was no mention of this in the referral debate. I am convinced that when this report, the 200-page package, came to us representatives only yesterday after Question Time, I am sure I am not the only one in this Chamber who could not read it through, and I am not the only one who did not get as far into the matter as would have been necessary. In the draft opinion, that section on the ban on distance selling was still there. Even in committee, experts gave their opinion on the basis of its draft, in a way, on the basis that it was prohibited from selling at a distance. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs then knew how to draw attention to it. But, indeed, that procedure has remained completely inadequate and this situation is open. In principle, it would still be possible to correct this in this part-session, i.e. send it to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for examination, which was proposed by the large committee. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u18	Mr President! If you think from the point of view of an ordinary citizen, I can well understand that for those who like to taste like four cells in beer and would like to buy that beer at the store for a sauna beer, when alcohol consumption is quite normal, this is hardly going to be a particular problem. However, experts here have stated very firmly and unequivocally that the overall consumption of alcohol leads to problems in the social and health fields that cause costs — not to mention those human aspects — and the need for additional resources to maintain public order and security. Minister Risikko here confirmed that 170 man-years are needed for the police just because of this legislation, and I believe that there would be better places for police resources to strengthen than this whole entity. From my point of view, decisions should always be taken on the basis of researched information and experts, and I believe that Parliament has now made the exact opposite of this legislation. Then, as far as this ban on distance selling is concerned: I made a number of speeches yesterday in connection with this debate, and in this context I will simply say that this decision will create a time line of several months in which the situation is as if open to entry into the market, and in practice it will mean that there is a great risk that our key alcohol policy instrument, the exclusive right to retail sale of Alko, which is approved by the EU on the basis of public health, will be threatened, and that is why I think this is a very serious and dangerous decision. That is why we did everything we could to ensure that this decision was now different, at least as far as this distance selling is concerned. As Mr Räsänen said, this percentage has been a matter for many people to think about, and I believe that this Chamber did not really open up to everyone yet how serious this issue is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u19	Madam President! For my part, I also resent this approach, because in practice I was deprived of access to this document on the basis of which decisions had to be made, and it is extremely damaging for Parliament's own work if we do not appreciate this process of working for us, even if we do not appreciate it, that we can say to the public that yes, yes, I knew what I was deciding. This is not what happened. And then there's the other thing: Yes, the MP should understand that the legislation should apply and apply to Finland as a whole, and that it will have certain consequences and will therefore seek to assess in advance the consequences of this legislation. Now, for once, these consequences were known and justified by a variety of factors, and yet they were turned away. This tells us on which value base we are now making quite serious legislation, impressive legislation, which puts individual freedom ahead of everything that any decision on the whole nation has to do with, and this is the place of the debate on values, ladies and gentlemen. Are we going in this direction, that the individual’s right takes precedence over the right of the entire nation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u20	Mr President! This issue and the related issues are historical in two senses, at least from the time I have been here, for less than 30 years. Firstly, this bill was prepared by three Members of Parliament. The chairman of the Group of the European People's Party last winter and spring, and especially when I was the chairman of the group myself, stressed that it is great that the Members of Parliament are preparing an important bill. We know who they are — or I do. The result is then a very ill-prepared and contradictory proposal. Of course, I did not agree with this package at the time, which was. Another historical factor here is the fact that the committee that heard all the experts, a large number of experts, hastened to this issue, by 14 to 3 votes, adopted this report and fell down here in Parliament's big Chamber. The expert reports I myself met last spring almost completely knocked this out. Only those representing market forces supported this. But here in the hall, it fell. Well, this is democracy, and that is the way to accept it, that's all. But these are historical things to me. Mr President! Then these two questions. First of all, this distance selling. It really remains consciously open to Parliament, and Parliament is relegating legislative powers to the courts. That is absolutely contrary to our legal system. Parliament must adopt legislation that is sound in all respects. There will be mistakes and misinterpretations, for which the judiciary will then interpret, but if we know here that we are making mistakes or leaving a gap, it is our shame, and that is why I have strongly opposed this. [The President knocks ] Mr President! Question two...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u26	Irade the Talman! It is clear that the situation in which the ban on distance selling is in the explanatory statement but not in the articles is bad legislation, and this must be corrected in some way. But if you look at the current situation, at the moment distance sales are not prohibited in Finland, although the practical applications of this have tightened over time. In Sweden it is not prohibited, and the goods coming through distance sales represent about one per cent of total consumption. But there's a pretty strong monopoly there. So, what's the difference between distance selling and distance buying? It is really just a question of what the seller’s connection to the transport company is: whether the seller will take it forward or whether the buyer will order the transport service from somewhere else. You can imagine that if this is now banned, it will be extremely easy to circumvent, and if we make legislation that is easily circumvented, then there will also be no ideal situation, apart from the fact that the EU should be critical of such prohibitions. Well, Customs should be monitoring this. This issue was also raised in the Administrative Committee. Customs cannot justify, on the basis of the box, whether the seller has supplied the product to the transport company or whether the transport company has entered the warehouse without talking to the seller and put it in its car. It does not appear in any way in the package, but Customs should somehow be able to monitor this. These are the issues that need to be clarified in relation to this work. Legislation must be unambiguous and it must be easy to follow it, and there must be no very uncertain situations of this kind that can easily arise here. So, this is for further work. If you want to allow distance selling then that tax must be simple and easy to pay, and you can probably create digital systems to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u27	Mr President! I myself am very disappointed in the way in which this law has been brought forward. I believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was quite right in that it would have been up to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and Parliament to clarify the legal situation regarding distance selling, especially as this draft law itself is contradictory in that regard, namely that distance selling is indeed declared prohibited, but the article is missing, and it is very questionable from the point of view of citizens' legal security that the citizen does not know what is going to happen and what is not. Well, one interpretation is that once the Constitutional Committee has now stated that this law does not prohibit distance selling, it is permissible, even though the explanatory statement prohibits it because the articles go beyond the explanatory statement. But I think this is a very confusing and regrettable situation, and I find it very damaging that Parliament, as it were, should raise its hands and let the judiciary decide on an issue which, according to the Constitution, belongs to Parliament. Parliament will legislate, and then the courts will apply these laws. Now we are resigning from our constitution, and I find this very regrettable, and this is not the first time in this parliamentary term that the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been ignored a bit strangely. Similarly, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I very much regret the fact that we were deprived of the opportunity to request at least written statements from Customs, the tax authorities and so on as to what will result from this opening of the distance selling box. Now none of us can know for sure what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u28	Mr President! I said this yesterday but I say again that I am very surprised at the fact that the assembly, which is perhaps the most vocal among all the political groups, is that we need to close the sustainability gap and keep the purses tight in the management of public finances, has been pushing for a reform which will increase alcohol consumption and, as all the experts have told us, will increase the cost of both social and health care, but also of police and police order and, on the other hand, to reduce our ability to pay when the number of people who are able to work and finance welfare services is reduced. I find it very short-sighted that, when you think about it from an economic point of view, you have thought of two industries: the retail sector and the brewing industry. However, for example, absenteeism from work as a result of alcohol and poor working condition as a result of alcohol and their economic loss as alcohol consumption increases, are far greater for the national economy than the benefits that the retail and brewing industries receive. Last but not least, I would like to raise the question of 16-year-olds working in places where they can be sold. After all, the majority of the Parliament did not accept the restrictions that were imposed on it. I find this a little amazing when it's only a few days since we talked about sexual harassment and stressed zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u29	Mr President! Now that the law has been adopted in accordance with the will of the majority, I will no longer go into these details of the law, but I will bring up a few comments which may not be of great credit to the legislation in this process. The first relates to the principle, however, which has been very much the case in this House, that we rely on much of the researched information and on the experts' assessments they give us, that is to say, the researched information which, for example, has been carried out enormously on this subject. It is quite honest to say that it was true that we were prepared to write in the text all the things the experts have said about this subject, but then in these articles and in the behaviour we had as legislators, it did not appear. The only conclusion that can then be drawn from this is that, in the future, we will be able to choose a little more selectively the information on which we are building our decision-making. This is not a sustainable path for the future of legislation. The second point relates to this question of distance selling. It is quite exceptional that Parliament does not want to resolve such a crucial issue of legislation, but rather to give it to the drift: perhaps the courts will interpret it, or at some point a working group will be set up and try to get it over with. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was quite clear on this point and it would have been desirable for us to have acted as legislators in accordance with what is expected of us. There'll be a lot of question marks left in this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u30	Mr President! I would also like to add my voice here that I should like to express a great deal of criticism about the way in which this House was confronted with this alcohol law. I would also like to make this point because this is not the culture of running things around in this house, which does not give parliamentarians a real chance to get to know the bill and the details that are still open, as is the case here, for example, on this matter of distance selling. The bypassing of experts in other ways was also reflected in this reading of the law. I shall now refrain from quoting the speeches I have heard today that it is not in favour of the experts to believe. We representatives cannot only select experts according to who we believe or who we do not believe in, but consultation of experts is an important part of the legislative process. Then there is self-consideration, the discretion of the representative, of course, but if the attitude is that we bypass experts when the message does not please, we will take a dangerous path. On this matter of distance selling, I would also like to point out that this solution for distance selling is now being completely abandoned, and I hope that there will be no irreparable damage here. I was thinking of those malt barley farmers and other primary producers: if we were to create a situation in which Alko's monopoly would be broken, the liquor would land in this country, even if it was by ships. In the home country, the grain no longer matures. I would also like to say that, in the context of this legislation, it was also very clear that the locusts of lobbyists — and I am not referring to glass tentacles — were strangling this democracy during the course of this day,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u31	Mr President! 0.8 percentage points — 0.8 percentage points To put it more popularly, shops will be able to buy almost a percentage point of stronger beer in the future. It does not sound that radical in principle, but it does sound radical in this debate, and perhaps it does, and of course there are many other things — good things in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u34	Mr President! I think it is very important now to understand that every citizen, the individual, has their own views on issues like this and it is related to its own everyday life. I understand very well those people who, from a long distance, have to pick up that four-cell. In my opinion, some smarter solutions must now be found within the Alko framework, so that the stronger beer can then be obtained in the more remote places. But what is essential here is that this House should be able to carry out an analysis of how this affects the national economy as a whole, how this affects public health on a large scale. We, as I understand it, should be able to make those decisions from a nation’s point of view, not from these individuals. We too had 490,000 voters in the last municipal elections, so that we cannot take into account the viewpoints of all these people in the decision-making process, but we must make decisions on the basis of the information studied. I think that is why this is such a wonderful decision. I don't understand this Simon Elon...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u35	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u36	Mr President! Indeed, after the recent text messages, feedback has come from people. As Mr Rinne said, if people personally thought that this would have been appropriate — but more than 55 %. In the study of Ehyt, they are well advised not to do so, they will be able to retrieve its stronger alcohol from the Alko store — and it is now up to us to make an overall assessment, and when you look at the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the social and health effects will be devastating when you look at the opinion of the Administrative Committee from the police side, the reality will be crushing. On the basis of these, at least according to my conscience, there is no other decision to make except to avoid this increase in total consumption, because that is the reason that leads to harm. We can talk about percentages. Then there has been the point of view that there would be some impact on the economy and on employment, when we know that this is a way of weakening employment because it is moving home and into the street, away from restaurants. In other words, from the place where people would be employed, we are now moving home, to the sale of supermarkets. But I believe that this is actually a bigger picture: we want to break a public operator. There is a desire to break the monopoly — this is the first stage — not all of this, but Alko is now being broken in terms of monopolies, and then Veikkaus is being broken. At the same time, VR, Post and social media are being exported. Here is an assemblyist, a right-wing think-tank in which the public side will no longer have the power to decide on these matters in the future. I am very sorry that the other parties in the government have bought this big picture. We should still take care of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u37	Mr President! I think it is wrong to give the impression that there is a liberal alcohol policy against a conservative alcohol policy. After three months of listening to experts in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I am convinced that the interests of some interested parties and the overall benefits of the national economy are at odds here. It is also apparent from the Government’s own explanatory statement that, once impact assessments have been carried out, it has been found that even if a tax increase is made, the cost to society of this alcohol law is higher than the expected tax revenue. This is a very unfortunate fact. I do now appeal to the government parties that, once you have pushed through this proposal, this overall reform, I would like you to bear in mind the need for more money to protect children, the fight against the black economy needs more money. Customs and police need more money, emergency care and emergency services need more money. This law has a wide range of implications, and I would like you to have the courage to take account of the consequences of this law. If you have read the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, it is clear from it that this bill will increase health inequalities. It will increase alcohol problems and the harm caused by alcohol, not only for individuals but also for those close to them. It is not too late to read the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the report of the committees which issued these opinions. We'll have another vote next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u38	Mr President! Alcohol is such that it affects everyone in Finland — not necessarily directly in person, but everyone in their immediate circle and in their own lives has seen alcohol consumption. Unfortunately, alcohol is a problem for Finns, has been through history, is now and certainly will continue to be. There's been a lot of talk here about alcohol damage. We certainly have different views in this Parliament between different parties and also within all parties on how to reduce the harm caused by alcohol and the role that different regulations, different restrictions and different policy instruments play in it. However, I myself would like to speak on the point that alcohol abuse, alcoholism, is a disease. It's a disease we should be talking about as a disease. I would like to see a little more enthusiasm and interest in this hall to think about how alcoholism in Finland could be treated more as a disease and less as a social phenomenon, less as a moral issue. We do not have a family in Finland, and certainly not a bigger job where this disease would not be known. It is very important that the wall of silence should be broken — whether 4.7, 8% or 5.5% of men and women. Mr President! Personally, I have heard and know people who have been very much helped by this kind of substance abuse treatment of the Minnesota model, the so-called eight-step model. For example, in my own province of Southern Ostrobothnia, Lapua, there is a very well-functioning Minnesota treatment that has helped these people with a disease called alcoholism. I think this conversation about how to really influence alcoholism is very appropriate for Ulla Orangesin, a celebrity journalist, to comment on alcoholism: "Because I am close to an alcoholic, I know that an alcoholic always finds [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u41	Mr President! A few things I just couldn't fit in for two minutes. First of all, when we talk about individual rights, it would probably be tempting for everyone to think that the only change that takes place in the world is that it would be me who could get stronger beer and wine from the grocery store, but everything else in the world would remain the same. But this is not how the world works. As many have already said, this reform will increase alcohol consumption and the resulting harm. Mr Kurvinen, these disadvantages are not limited to alcoholics and their immediate family. We know that alcohol increases the risk of at least five different types of cancer, for example. This is not just about alcoholics. The ability to work was not impaired and the days of hangovers are not limited to alcoholics. The easier it is to have access to alcohol, the greater the likelihood that more alcoholics will come. All in all, the financial implications of this law mean that we are under even greater pressure to continue to cut the budget for education, to continue to cut pensions and to make all the other decisions that people do not want. This too is a question of human rights. I also regard it as a very bad piece of legislation to write a law whose purpose and content are incompatible with one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u42	Mr President! Of course, when one of the speakers here was anxious to hear only negative comments, it is appropriate to say that there were many really good improvements to this adopted law, that this is not just a minor victory. This deregulation, which concerns, for example, restaurant activities, or, if we are talking about this right to sell out small breweries, these are very welcome reforms, which have been widely supported by Parliament. Then, on these few key issues, in which impact assessments are now based on the fact that the disadvantages and hence the costs are increasing, perhaps a slightly different solution would have been desirable. In the rest of this speech, I will confine myself to the central question that, when it is repeated here on many occasions that this is a good thing from the point of view of industry and a good thing from the point of view of industry, that is certainly the case when we look at the brewery industry or the business of commerce, but when we come to this restaurant business, this legislation has not been adopted in any way to improve the competitiveness of restaurants in relation to traders, for example. It is good to remember, however, that while we are now dismantling this regulation of the restaurant, it is quite clear that this trend is continuing to move from restaurants to home and onto the street, for example, when the amount of alcohol in the restaurant is paid, especially when the EUR 100 million tax increase is made here. This trend has continued for the past 20 years. At the time the restaurant was 20 per cent, today it is 10 per cent. At the same time, more than 10,000 jobs have been lost in the restaurant sector. Now we are still going on with this development, and I think it is wrong, and because of the fact that you are thinking about the future now, you would wish that will,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u43	Mr President! Mr Elo is quite quick to criticise the fact that some Members of Parliament may have changed their position in the course of this debate, or even over the years, in support of this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Personally, I would not be surprised, namely that there are some principles in the legislative work which are good — and in this case too — to follow: firstly, that work should be done well and in accordance with the principles and practices of administration and legislative work; secondly, that, when the legislation is being drawn up with some accuracy, it should listen to the expert opinions required for the work to be carried out; and, thirdly, that the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is very clearly supported; and, thirdly, that legislation should aim and, in the very main principle and as a rule of thumb, that when the law is being drafted, the purpose of the comparison of interests should be to safeguard the position of the disadvantaged, not so that the position of those in a stronger position, even in the interests of the economy, should be strengthened or guaranteed. When you think about these things, these principles, there is not much reason for criticism here, if you have come to the conclusion that quite rightly, it would be good not to raise the percentage limit for alcohol sold in shops, and quite rightly, to take care of the main principle of the alcohol law that it is not intended to increase the harm but to reduce it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u44	Mr President! It is now about 125 years since the Finnish sobriety movement began. This idea has been exploited by youth clubs as well as by many political movements since then. Today is one of these milestones in the idea of sobriety, and that's when the sobriety movement started to reduce the consumption of Finnish liquor. At this moment, the government will increase by 3 billion people's nausea, hangover days, absenteeism, illness due to alcohol-induced injuries and then actual health problems, various alcohol-related diseases and many other diseases that have emerged here. Currently, health inequalities among Finns are growing all the time, according to the THL study, where alcohol is a key factor. As Mr Kurvinen has pointed out here, we must use various means to deal with alcoholism, which has already been identified, but it has an even greater effect on the prevention of alcohol consumption. It's the family's responsibility. Young people and children between 1 and 3 years of age passively absorb their own behavior from what parents do. Then we must support families as a whole, so that they then give the right model not only to small children but also primarily to teenagers. We need to follow this up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u45	Mr President! I asked to speak on behalf of Mr Elo. He has now left us, but when he told us that he was celebrating the victory of individual freedom today, I would like to say that these victories have been seen in Finland's alcohol policy history before. In 69 C.E., it was celebrated that middle beer was released into stores. Then, in a few years, total alcohol consumption more than doubled. Ciders, tentacles and alcohol advertising were released in 95 C.E. After that, too, alcohol consumption and alcohol harm increased significantly. In 2003, the alcohol tax was reduced by one third. Even at that time, there were celebrations, but then, among other things, 600 more alcohol deaths a year followed. I'm afraid this day will be remembered as one of the special days in this history. Representative Meri here said that the decision has been made and the chatter has been taken away. That is certainly the case, but unfortunately the consequences of this decision will come to our laps here in Parliament, which means that we will certainly have to return to those consequences, whether we talk about the need for safety authorities, the need for child protection, domestic violence, drunken driving or alcohol-related deaths. Many here have also suggested that measures and attention should be focused on those with alcohol problems. I hope that those who present this will listen and, if they do not listen to us, they will listen to the OECD, which has said that the most cost-effective thing is to have an impact on the whole population, not just on alcohol problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u46	Mr President! In the legislative work, it is essential to consult and trust the experts in this field, especially in the event that the experts' assessments of changes to this law are very crushing in the sense that alcohol and alcohol supply will increase. When you read the very critical report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and all those aspects of how this law is going to employ more policemen, nurses, doctors, customs, you can only end by saying that there is little support for the main pain points, such as the release of four cells to grocery stores. Each decision-maker must, for his part, consider the overall benefits and health benefits of society. It is also clear from this report that the disadvantages created are also greater than the benefits in terms of costs. After all, it is the legislator's job to protect the weakest. Even at the moment, the availability of alcohol in Finland is not particularly difficult, and I am therefore concerned about the future in this law, especially in those families and people who have a problem with alcohol. In these many families, three beers change to four cells and the harm increases. Of course, there are also good things in this law that we Greens have been all in favour of, such as less regulation of restaurants and the fact that small breweries are now allowed to be sold out. It promotes small brewery entrepreneurship and the manufacture of craft beers. But, indeed, this matter of distance selling must be clarified as soon as possible. It is very worrying if this question of distance selling threatens Alko's monopoly in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u47	Mr President! Today's tough vote and the discussion of the percentage limits will certainly share the opinion of the citizens, including those within the parties, but it is of course that people ultimately have responsibility and freedom from their own actions, and that does not mean that they will take any small or minor consideration of the public health concerns and issues that have been raised. I personally see that this is perhaps above all a cultural aspect. After all, they are quite interesting statistics on how, for example, in Italy, which has very free legislation on alcohol, consumption is still quite small, much lower than in Finland per capita. Legislation is hardly capable of making this cultural change. If it had succeeded in doing so, it would certainly have been done by now, and so we must of course hope that education and the progress of good and moderate drinking culture will take place. Generations do set an example, for example, because the current generation of young people consumes much less alcohol than my own generation, for example. That is only a good thing for me. It is good to hear that those who were against these increases also recognise that there are a lot of good things here, of which Parliament is quite unanimous, in relation to the situation of small breweries and the bureaucracy that has been dismantled there. And when there was a doubt here at some point about the state of government in this country and reference was also made to other issues under discussion and to what is their line of action, I can at least say that the centre is a strong supporter of the Alko Monopoly. We are a strong public defender, no matter what, but people also have the right to freedom and responsibility and individual freedoms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u48	Mr President! I think it is quite clear that, following today's decision, the government must be prepared for an increase in alcohol consumption and, as a result, of course, an increase in alcohol problems. We definitely need more resources in the future to strengthen, among other things, child protection, which is already in crisis, to increase the number of police officers, to cover the increase in social and health care costs. I believe that this decision runs counter to all the principles of the government which aim at reducing health inequalities and promoting public health. I have not heard, by the way, that no one in Finland had fallen ill or died because they had not received enough alcohol so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u49	Mr President! This reform of the alcohol law has, in fact, culminated in this percentage issue, and it may have been forgotten that this was very much more than that — the fact that many very old pieces of legislation were brought to this day and a lot of regulation was dismantled, and I think that was an excellent thing. And like a representative My corner right there said, after all, that Parliament was very unanimous on them, for many things. Perhaps we should bear in mind that the percentage actually was only one part of this, even though it has risen to perhaps the highest level here, and also from the point of view of the citizens, many people thought that it was the only thing we decided today. However, it must be admitted that economic policy was clearly ahead of us here and that this decision to increase this percentage is likely to increase health inequalities and welfare inequalities. That is truly regrettable, and I hope that we will then be prepared for this and that we will also be given sufficient resources to put these things in order. But what I regret in this whole process was this haste, which brought this proposal back to the last stage, especially since at the very end this matter of distance selling was unclear and the committee did not even get the opinions it wanted. This type of legislation is extremely regrettable, especially in this area, which is known to be very strongly shared by representatives. I really hope that now the government parties will quickly be able to turn on the necessary articles from this distance, because there is a real risk that what will happen to Alko's monopoly, and it will be a bigger soup after that if it breaks. But I really hope from the government parties that you will take this up and deal with this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u50	Mr President! Just a few more things: in this decision and in the vote today we really walked over three, perhaps four, committees. Not all the warning examples that had been described in detail seemed to matter, and I stayed to think, ‘ What do you think of the great experts who had taken a careful interest in the matter? ’ One group is officials from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health who had really done a good job. What do they wonder when their work was given no value? This case will remain a sort of example of bad law by social scientists and legal institutions, which should never be made of. It is unfortunate to be involved in a parliament that produces decisions of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u51	Mr President! Today, Parliament did make a really, really sad decision, with two votes to resolve the fact that in future, instead of 4.7 per cent, sales in stores were allowed to sell 5,5 per cent of products and the production method limit was removed. I did not support that increase in the percentage, nor did I support the abolition of the method of manufacture restriction. Parliament must promote the health of the population, just as the Constitution requires of us. We also have a duty to support the well-being of children and to safeguard everyone's right to a healthy environment. Alcohol consumption and drunken drinking among minors have decreased in Finland since the beginning of the millennium. According to experts, this change in the law results in an increase in alcohol consumption. The alcohol content in the bottle and can is increasing by 17 percent, which of course increases the level of hops. Young people are smaller in weight than adults, resulting in a smaller amount of alcohol causing them to get drunk more seriously. From now on, the vast majority of alcoholic beverages will produce more alcohol, even if the amount of drink is the same as before. The increase in the percentage limit is in conflict with this alcohol law itself. The purpose of the law is to control consumption in order to prevent social, social and health damage. The increase in the percentage limit is also incompatible with other laws. According to the Health Care Act, the health, well-being, working and functional capacity and social security of the population must be promoted and maintained. The Act on Intoxicant Abuse requires the prevention and reduction of problem drug use and related social and health problems, and the promotion of the ability and safety of the problem substance user and his/her loved ones. The aim of the Act on Societies is to strengthen and guide citizens' healthy lifestyles in order to avoid the use of drugs and tobacco. I wonder, though, how Parliament can decide in complete contradiction with other laws. Mr President! The price tag on alcohol-related costs is already EUR 1 billion a year for the state and municipalities. By raising the percentage limit, the additional price tag for social welfare and health care is estimated to be at least 20 million. For example, detoxification costs about 125 euros a day, pancreatic infection treatment 30000 euros, liver transplantation 98000 euros, institutional care of a child taken into care 110000 euros a year, and psychiatric care of children and adolescents 630 euros a day. In social and health care, alcohol employs emergency care, special care, emergency care, home care, nurses, midwives, child welfare, doctors, nurses, local nurses, therapists, social workers and so on. In other parts of the public sector, alcohol employs policemen, firefighters, youth workers, school cranes, teachers, priests, diagnoses and prisons, and so on. How is the government prepared for the need for more workers in these professions after this change of law? There's no way, there's no more money coming in the budget, for example, more cops. Alcohol increases the harm, especially in young people. Accidents, alcohol poisoning, unprotected sex, sexual experiences and other activities that are regretted, dysfunctional behaviour, unwanted pregnancies, conflicts with the surrounding environment and authority, negative effects on the development of the young brain are increasing. I have an expert opinion here — all of them as annexes to the law that have been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. For example, it says here the consequences of drinking alcohol, which have occurred at least once in the last 12 months, as follows: 5,59700 Finns have fallen into a fight in connection with drinking alcohol during the last year. 123,400 persons have been injured or injured. 117,800 persons have been travelling in a car whose driver was under the influence of alcohol. 939,000 people have repented of their speech or actions in connection with drinking. Alcohol policy is a balance between health, employment and the economy. The decline in total alcohol consumption is most affected by availability and price. The increase in the alcohol tax during the last government term allowed the total consumption to be reversed, and now this legislative amendment cancels the benefits as alcohol consumption rises and increases health inequalities between people. Alcohol-related harm is not just a problem for large consumers; access to it increases consumption in all population groups, with just ordinary people working, families, mothers and fathers, pensioners and young people. I would like to see the Members of Parliament have had a clear vote to promote public health and not an increase in the percentage. No one’s interest is the ever-increasing cost of social and health care, safety, pharmaceutical costs, without forgetting the human suffering of millions of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u52	Honorable Speaker! I would like to say that the legal status of this distance selling has not been clarified in the committee, so I would say, and I would say, that this matter should be referred back to the Committee on Reports, that it should be clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u54	Congressman Taavitsaine?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u62	Mr Vähämäki's proposal lapses because it has not been supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u63	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 23/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u64	Mr President! Now we are dealing with a proposal from the government for a law that has been called a 'limiting law' in short terms. It is called the Government's proposal for legislation amending the Act on the temporary limitation of certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards in the field of social welfare and health care and the Act on the application of certain obligations laid down in the Act on the restructuring of the municipal and service structures — a long title. In these laws, it is proposed to extend their validity as a result of the change in the timetable for social and regional reform. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we consider this to be necessary in order to ensure that, prior to the start of the reform, these restrictive measures under the Restriction Act and the obligations of the Paras-Framework Act are in place without interruption until that reform starts. This is therefore a question of limits for municipal decision-making, but the committee believes that there are acceptable grounds for them to be able to operate the service system, which is to be regarded as totally acceptable. These are temporary measures that we will decide on here. It is therefore proposed not only to extend the period of validity of this restriction law, but also to introduce certain reinforcements. This includes, inter alia, the provision of Article 3 The regulation of contracts with a private service provider is to be tightened so that the contract must always contain a termination clause if the contract is worth more than 30 % of the annual expenditure of social and health care in charge of organising the municipality or joint municipal authority and the contract is valid for longer than the end of 2020. According to the law currently in force, the limit is 50 % and the contract period is 5 years. In addition, the law would be tightened so that, if contracts are concluded with several different producers, this condition of termination must always be included in the contract in which the limit is exceeded and in all subsequent contracts. In the present law, only the share of operating expenditure in contracts with the same producer is added together. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers these proposed changes to be justified and they will therefore ensure that the reform of social welfare and regional development is launched in accordance with the objectives of the reform. In addition, this Act provides for a clarification of the current state of affairs in such a way as to explicitly include in the law in force the interpretation that the person in charge of the organisation has the right to terminate the contract during 2020 without any liability for the termination of the contract. The committee believes that this is justified in order not to create any doubt as to the interpretation of the law already in force. Instead, the committee believes that the right to terminate the agreement should be extended from one year to two years, with the right in 2020 and 2021. This would also give the province a better chance of restructuring if the agreement was terminated. In addition, Article 4 of this Restriction Act amends the criteria for granting exemptions for construction investments by granting an exemption only if the investment is necessary and urgent to ensure the availability of services. Compared to the current situation, the proposal represents a somewhat more far-reaching restriction on construction investments in municipalities and joint municipal authorities. However, the committee considers this to be justified. According to the report we have received, the Ministry has granted 14 authorisations for hospital districts while the restriction law is in force and 2 applications for authorisation are pending. In addition, the draft law on the extension of the obligations of the Paras Framework Act proposes that social and health care co-operation obligations based on the reform of the municipal and service structures be extended until the end of 2019. The committee therefore proposes that the law be adopted by means of these amendments, which are included in this report. One objection has been raised during the work of the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u65	Madam President! I would now like to present a joint protest from the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the RKP and the Greens on this issue. However, I would like to start by saying that I believe that the government's poorly managed reform of social and health care, which has caused a variety of fears and distrust for the government, which is why the various regions have wanted to take this into their own hands, and that is why the government has now taken action and wants to limit the decision-making powers in the regions. This government proposal as such must be supported, but I do not think that the background behind the definition of this law is right, fair, I would rather say so. Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to extend for a further year the law on temporary limitation of certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards in social and health care, the so-called restriction law, and the Paras-Framework Act. In addition to the extension period, Article 3 of the Restriction Act provides: It has been proposed to amend the scope of the outsourcing agreement, inter alia, to take notice if the outsourcing services account for more than 30 % of the municipal or joint municipal authorities' social services. At the moment, this limit is 50%. We believe that the tightening of the restriction is a step in the right direction but is insufficient. This 30% limit means that, for example, an important area of activity could be outsourced from the activities of the hospital district, such as on-call, operational or medisian activities, for example, even internal diseases. We consider such outsourcing in whole areas to be very important functionally and strategically. There is a high risk that outsourcing endangers the maintenance of on-call operations and long-term operations. This will enable the outsourcing of different large entities, which will result in a future risk to the operation. After the outsourcing of service units, it is impossible, for example, to return on-call to a public operator when the staff are transferred to a private service provider and the public operator no longer has the necessary personnel. That is why we are proposing that the threshold for outsourcing should be 15% rather than 30%. We believe it is important that the law enters into force as soon as possible. We also note that the plans and decisions of certain municipalities and joint municipal authorities — recently a good example of this is Western Ostrobothnia — show that criteria under the existing law can allow for quite extensive outsourcing for the provinces. The situation in Western Ostrobothnia will reduce the possibility for the Province of Lapland to decide on the implementation of its responsibility for organising social welfare and health care for more than ten years. At the same time, the decisions significantly limit the ability of the province to decide on the allocation of expenditure. We find this extremely regrettable because, in practice, there are no winners in the long term other than the owners of an international health company. We believe that the government has steered the reform of social services in the wrong direction and has given rise to mistrust in the regions about the progress of the reform. People have had concerns about the preservation and preservation of services. We call for the government to restore its original objectives to the centre of the social welfare reform. The objective must continue to be to reduce differences in health and well-being, to strengthen basic services, to prevent, to improve the integration and effectiveness of services. The Government must abandon its market-based social model, safeguard the primacy of public service production, and develop in a systematic and controlled way the freedom of choice by making use of private and third sector service production. Local authorities should also be able to provide production opportunities if this is decided at regional level. Publicly funded social and health services should not be undermined in the shadow of the reform. Mr President! In view of the above, we propose that the draft laws be adopted otherwise than in accordance with the committee's report, with the exception of Article 3 of the draft law. amended with a percentage limit of 15 instead of 30.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u66	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. This legislation was imposed because the interests of the state and of municipalities and joint municipal authorities are opposed. I believe that this must be taken seriously by the government that, when major reforms are being made, regional and social reform, things are being carried forward in such a way that there are no conflicts of interest of this kind. This situation has been brought about by the fact that we have a side open in the reform of social welfare and health care. We have taken measures which do not properly manage this whole that has been created over the years, and this has now led to the hawks being set in motion. There was the Meri-Lappi case, but before that there have been many other situations in which municipalities, in small numbers, have left in a controlled way to outsource activities. However, with regard to the wider limitation made a year ago, it has been established that this small-scale nature cannot be ensured and is being subjected to such complementary legislation. I regret that, but I believe that the government's proposal is justified, so that in future the regions will have the capacity to organise the reform of social welfare and health care as part of the regional reform. It is justified that the total outsourcing rate should be reduced to 30% and include a termination clause that does not require compensation and, on the other hand, that the province should have two years to consider whether the outsourcing is suitable for the overall regional strategy for the provision of social and health care services. After all, we are talking more about total outsourcing, but the first signs are that real estate is going to be traded before the county real estate companies can start operating, and I believe that this phenomenon must be taken seriously so as not to cause permanent damage to our well-functioning health care system. It is a fact that, according to a European consumer survey, health care in Finland is the most cost-effective — the euro is the most productive — but according to a consumer survey, our system is the fourth best for the citizen as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u67	Mr President! When we discussed this government proposal in the Administrative Committee, it was stated that this extension of the year is necessary and justified in other respects. However, we also wanted to say jointly that the need for this proposal is partly linked to the fact that the on-call regulation was dealt with separately from the reform of social welfare and health care. The opinion of the Administrative Committee is unanimous and it is important that this law is put into effect. But then we have to understand that this law does not remove all those contradictions, nor does it complete them, so it is important that we complete the reform of social welfare and health care, and perhaps also, as a big spiritual matter, the understanding that not all the problems on the social side will be resolved by the completion of the legislation. We should understand that we are going to get the score 1.0 done and then we will need some corrections in the coming years. But this government proposal is necessary and justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u68	Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has drawn up a report on this limitation of investment in municipal social property and then on the externalisation of social welfare and health care, which tightens both somewhat. I myself have been involved in the management committee in making an opinion on this report. It seems to me that there is a very broad consensus here in the special committees as well as in the various parliamentary groups in this Chamber that it is justified at this stage during this transformation and the transition phase to restrict movements which would then disrupt the whole of social and health care in each province. Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on this restriction on investment in social and health care property. In committee, it became quite clear to us in the Committee on Administrative Affairs that, although this amendment of the law is now limited to investments that are absolutely necessary, it must be possible to make the investments that are absolutely necessary, for example, due to mould problems and indoor air problems. They may not even need permission. Indeed, I see that even after this restriction, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health should authorise projects that provide healthy facilities for customers, patients and staff alike. Mr President! Municipalities can make a wide range of transactions in real estate and in their own services. However, I think it is important for the municipalities to understand what they are doing. It was this week that it became known that, in accordance with the notes of the Constitutional Committee, the Ministry of Finance has prepared such a compensation model for such a situation if some social property is left empty in the regional reform. I also prefer freedom of choice, President, to the creation of a private monopoly by means of externalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u69	Madam President! There are great reasons why this reform of the social economy has kept waiting for itself. I think that the wrong aspects were taken off when this concentration regulation was first laid down. This led us in Lapland to a situation where the chemists and towerians panicked for their jobs — there are 800 jobs in the West North. Then there was the fear of surgery, which will be transferred to Rovaniemi or Oulu by means of this centralization regulation. Of course, this will also have a spill-over effect on the clinics and departments. It has even been feared that nursing training in Kemi will end. The government pushed the situation to this point, and one can say that this situation in Meri-Lap is sad. It is clear that this is an exceptional solution at national level, that both basic and special care will be privatised. And it is clear that the health business is always interested and investors are interested in those sectors that generate profit, but there is no interest in those sectors where the profit from the non-existent or even the minus sign is not. Yes, it is possible to say that: The bee is clearly aiming for this day-surgery activity, which is inexpensive to produce and a ratio of risk-free. As far as this restriction law is concerned, I also see that this 30% limit is totally inadequate and can lead, as Mr Kiljunen has said here, to these important areas being outsourced. It is therefore a good thing that our proposal is that this outsourcing limit should be dropped to that 15%. And I agree that this law should be brought into force as soon as possible and it would be good if it were to enter into force on 1 January 2018. But I also hope that the government will continue to act, and from Minister Saarikko that, now that Mr Manninen and Mr Rask, the former ministers, have done this research, this could also be countered by the state, so that this privatisation solution would not be rushed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u70	Mr President, ärade talman! There are quite clear reasons for this whole package of Meri-Lappi, the whole need for it. On the other hand, the belief in the government's social welfare reform is clearly ending not only within the government but also outside the government, on the other hand, there is uncertainty about its own special care. Local decision-makers understandably want to secure services in their own territory. Several experts in the consultation have given serious criticism to the government's new proposal for freedom of choice, and the report on fiscal surveillance published yesterday also states that these savings of EUR 3 billion or cost increases do not seem to be realised. Another reason, as the Administrative Committee also said with moderate words, is that the on-call regulation, which deprives the region of the last remaining remnants of independence, has been put through before the actual reform of social security. It is interesting that the centre in particular is ready to concentrate and drive down the hospital network before there is any certainty as to the fate of the provinces and the social welfare reform. This suspicion of preparing for war is no longer easy to correct, but the Act on Emergency Services and Concentration could still be stopped. Apparently, even in the government's ranks, there's been a wake-up call in the last few metres. According to Yle's information yesterday, the Minister of Social Affairs and Health may still be able to touch the regulation on the concentration of special medical care, which will come into force at the turn of the year. It seems that Mr Risiko has now begun to look at the problem raised by doctors, the loss of the competence required for extensive emergency services from the central hospital when demanding measures are taken to university hospitals. At the same time, however, these central hospitals should continue to be able to do the same on-call treatments if necessary. At the same time, the government should now stop this centralisation of surgery requiring anesthetics in small hospitals. When I heard about these plans myself, I thought it was an accident. Surely the government in which the vote is held does not want to deprive, for example, well-functioning private cutting units of the opportunity to act after the entry into force of the on-call regulation? However, this will be the case if this is not addressed. Minister, implementation of the on-call reform, i.e. the dismantling of hospitals and the centralisation of the operations of smaller hospitals, should be suspended until we know what the government's social welfare reform will eventually become, if anything comes of it. It is a much better way to deal with such a problem than to impose such a compulsory law. Is it not time to take a time-out and suspend this reform, that is to say, the implementation of the dismantling of hospitals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u71	And on this point, Minister Saarikko's statement, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u72	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express my warm thanks to Parliament and its broad consensus around this law. It was the government's wish that this law could be dealt with in Parliament on a timely basis because the purpose of the law is to tackle the acute situations that have arisen today, in which municipal decision-makers assess the way in which their services are organised and produced in cooperation with private operators, and also because we could ensure sensible and far-reaching solutions relating to building investments, especially in the case of hospital districts. There is a restriction law in force, and this law now before us makes it even more stringent. I also understand the opposition's arguments for making this government's proposal even more critical and a percentage limit on externalities. There was also a debate within the government, and we said that this chapter is, however, a clear signal in itself that the state of the government's will has been clearly stated and has been supplemented by a number of individual statements by officials, such as those relating to the situation in Siikalatva and the bee cooperation pattern. Mr President! I also asked for the floor because the previous speaker, the representative of the RKP, raised the so-called concentration regulation, namely the Health Care Act on the division of labour between hospitals. I recognize the pain associated with it and the difficult decision-making in different areas of Finland, whether it is a division of work between regional hospitals or central hospitals or even university central hospitals. These are all covered by that regulation and by the Health Care Act itself. I understand that in your speech you referred to Minister Risiko's statements yesterday regarding his visit to the Joensuu Central Hospital. I recognise that situation, which he makes in the news, and I cannot comment on it on his behalf except by saying two things: this law is my responsibility, and the second point, this law is in the special follow-up of the Ministry of Finance because, firstly, the underlying factors behind the division of work between hospitals are to ensure patient safety and the adequacy of the experts, but also to ensure the savings of the Government Programme of 350 million, and that opinion should therefore also be assessed in the light of the fact that one part of the government’s 4 billion savings package is tied to this solution. I do not want to open this debate any further in this regard, because I recognise that there is a restriction law in our debate, which is different, but I wanted to confirm and clarify that there is no discussion at the board's table about the opening of a centralisation regulation. But we have set up a national coordination group, whose task is to monitor, on the basis of officials and experts, how hospitals across Finland manage to share tasks, above all cuts — this division of labour is now the most critical point. That working group will also have the task of investigating this issue in Eastern Finland, which was raised in this debate in the news coverage of Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u73	Mr President! After all, in this house we place great emphasis on the autonomy of municipalities. Against this background, it was somewhat comical when, among other things, it was stated in the Committee on Administrative Affairs that we actually have a law that protects municipalities from themselves. Perhaps it is a rather strong statement, but when you look at the kind of outsourcing efforts that have taken place and are taking place in the country, this bill is in many ways necessary and justified in terms of goals. The law is needed for force, of course, as soon as possible. In this connection, I must also acknowledge that, exceptionally in the context of this law, I have to say that... Well, let us put it this way: as far as this law is concerned, I very much understand the opposition's objection to this motion this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u75	Mr President! When the Health Care Act was reformed less than ten years ago, probably no one, at least not myself, was able to estimate that it could happen that we would be outsourced by municipalities or joint municipal boards to the extent that the services of health care are being provided. Nor did anyone think that a small municipality, along with a large company, could set up a health station a hundred kilometres away and thus pick up customers, as it were, as a bubvan for this company. However, this situation has now been brought about by the reform of social security and, unfortunately, this road has been taken a long way, when it has not been sufficiently well dealt with in advance. Last July this year, the government postponed the reform of social services by one year, with a new period of time for this kind of activity, and it is clear that these large companies in the market are now using this forcefully and looking for loopholes of some kind, and there will always be those who cooperate and benefit from it, at least for the short term. This has been the case in Meri-Lap and, above all, in the Siikalatva case. We know that on the tables of mayors of dozens of municipalities there are offers from large international companies offering to buy social and health services from these municipalities and to guarantee for years the services they have. This, of course, binds, if not addressed, the hands of its future province so that one municipality has a high level of service and other municipalities may be in difficulty as a result. This is the background to this, I'm sure everyone's familiar with it. Of course, this should have been addressed by last July at the latest, when this time was extended, but it was already in the past. Well, we did, but we didn't. Now we have a law that is a stronger instrument, but surely it will not be enough, because these are really good at finding ways to finally get to grips with these billions that are now being opened up on the health market to private profit. At the same time, of course, basic services of enormous importance to citizens are at stake. Mr President! The government proposes a 30% limit instead of the current 50. The direction is the right one, but it must be admitted that it is inadequate. In that sense, this 15% limit on the part of the opposition is better, but we come across what has just been heard here, namely the autonomy of the citizens, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Is 15 % such a low figure as to limit the autonomy of the municipality so strongly that it would already be unconstitutional? That is probably not what we are going to find out in this context, but this is something we may suspect. Nevertheless, I personally believe that this 15% is better at protecting the interests of society as a whole in this huge reform. Mr President! In this context, I would also like to highlight this model of compensation for social property, which has now been decided by the government. There are two problems in particular, and I would ask the committee to take them into account. First of all, the municipality’s financial situation cannot be such as to determine the size of the compensation when these properties are given in the future. The second is that the assessment of real estate cannot be unilaterally held by the State, but must find a model of arbitration and thus find a fair solution for each municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u76	Mr President! After all, a strange situation has arisen here when this social welfare reform has taken us here in Parliament or, in fact, by the government for quite a long time. The situation has been rather confusing and still confused. The municipalities are rightly concerned about the survival of services in the regions, and this situation has now led to desperate decisions being made in different parts of Finland. Of course, the interesting thing about this is that the centre-driven municipalities are afraid of decisions to centralise the centre-driven government. This is a very important government proposal, as has already been heard here. But this 30% limit on the proposal still allows for the outsourcing of important areas of activity, which I find worrying. That is why I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u77	Mr President! This legislation as a whole is a necessary and supported emergency solution in a situation where social welfare reform, in fact, the most sensitive core, namely on-call services, threatens to be damaged by this social confusion that exists on the ground. It must be pointed out that the government made a mistake in the way in which the Act on concentration and on-call services was scheduled for preparation in the regions for the reform of social services. I believe that this amendment to the objection is necessary and good, and I also support it and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u78	Mr President! Here, Minister Saarikko has already well explained the effects of this health law and the related centralisation regulation. In this regard, we must now ask ourselves why we have now come to this, that these restrictions are needed. Local self-government is the one whose task is to consider how the basic services of the municipality will be secured in the future, and against this background it has been a mistake to adopt the Health Care Act and the related centralization decree separately from the war. I understand that it has been given because it is part of this EUR 4 billion savings package, but it has caused this confusion in that field and has also resulted in the measures that have now been seen in Meri-Lap and Siikalatva. It is up to the municipality's decision-maker to ensure that the vitality and services of the municipality are maintained as well as possible. And, unfortunately, this confidence has now been shaken. The Minister here rightly said that a national coordination group has been set up to monitor this situation, including in Meri-Lap. Now I really hope that this monitoring group will look into what is actually happening there in the field, what these decisions on the concentration regulation also affect the availability of patient services, because the removal of surgery from regional hospitals under anesthesia will stop about 10% of the cutting capacity and there will be no further replacement, i.e. more queues and thus less access to services. And, of course, that explains the fact that that's how savings are made. Secondly, as has already been said here, we must follow how this planned municipal property arrangement works, so that no decisions are made in the fear of selling those properties. All in all, it is important to achieve a balance, but now we must also see what its real impact is on this concentration regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u79	Madam President! When reference has been made to my own region, the Kemin-Tornio region,the obligation to report a little aboutthe situation,even if this legislation does not directlyapply to the situation of accession, which is the case, this lawenhancedthe broad consensus of the Parliamentinneedstobeneededtobeexcluded,unless theoppositionsrequiredtobeextensivelytransformated. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: And for a reason!] Of course, it is now acutely decided in the sub-region that they want to set up a joint venture — which will therefore be very large, there has never been such outsourcing in Finland before — that it would be appropriate and good and indeed necessary if the government were to be able to signal at this stage that such a change would then be possible, because, of course, decisions with the joint venture will not be withdrawn if the names are put on the papers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u80	Madam President! When this debate is listened to and this debate is being held, this is well-founded, but of course it may also make you feel that we are very critical of all private health care. Of course, this should not be the case, but there are good players there too. Of course, this kind of activity, which has been seen this autumn, is an aggressive search for a market in the north, both in the Oulu region and in the Kemin-Tornio region, which is certainly not a credit to the operators in this field and has certainly not improved their image in the minds of Finnish people. However, we also have good experiences with these outsourcings, and they certainly have produced savings in some municipalities, but I personally prefer the option that the government has now taken forward, that people can make those choices, that they can choose for themselves which social centre they log in to, and that would not create such regional monopolies and local monopolies, but that there can be three or four different actors in a city the size of Kemi or Kauhava, as it seems to be now, and people can make choices in it. I personally have a slight problem with the option of handing over a whole of taxpayers' money on a gold platter to a single company and replacing a public monopoly with a private one. That probably doesn't make sense. Real estate leasing, a real estate investor for some public building, and a life cycle model for health care as well as for schools are good solutions. Mr President! I would also like to say that I very much welcome the fact that the obligations of this so-called 'Best' law are being extended and that it is binding until the social and regional patterns are set in motion. It is quite reasonable that there will then be no unnecessary fuss before the provinces start.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u81	Madam President! It is very good that this law has come to us here in Parliament for discussion, and I would like to warmly thank Minister Risikko. [Department :Security! ] But, overall, it is very good that the law is moving forward quickly, as well as paying attention to the need to ensure patient safety. It is important, and it is also important that specialist doctors be guaranteed in the provinces in the future. In this context too, when building investments are discussed, I hope that existing social and health care facilities will continue to be used in the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u82	Madam President! I agree with the estimates that this restriction law now under discussion is necessary, if not necessary. This development, which has now been seen in those municipalities in recent months and years, not only in relation to these outsourcings but also in relation to these real estate transactions, is quite intense. And, of course, I myself admit that I have been in the role of municipal decision-maker to decide on the sale of municipal social work to a private operator, who, from the point of view of the individual municipality and the municipal decision-maker, was certainly the only right solution, and this was also demonstrated by the almost unanimous decision taken there at Saarijärvi. When Mr Anttila here said earlier about municipal self-government and decisions made by municipalities in connection with this on-call regulation and the Health Care Act, I tend to think the same way. After all, now that we have taken these necessary austerity decisions and also there on the health care side, we have had to do these things, and that is the effect now, but then it is precisely the regional hospitals and the localities that are affected. And, of course, as a representative of the regional city, I myself recognize this development and the criticisms that have been expressed against it. But, of course, it is very important, now that these certain savings expectations have been made in connection with this health legislation and on-call regulation, that the Ministry should also monitor the implementation of these savings, so that there is no such situation as to be able to say that the necessary and correct outcome has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u83	Madam President! This bill is now born of the need created by the government itself by the fact that the whole municipal court in Finland is in a small confusion, when one cannot know exactly what this social and administrative reform will ultimately produce. We are now in a situation where we are forced to do this kind of fast-track legislation, which then manages the market, as it were. And here is the big contradiction that, in particular, the coalition, which feels that it is necessary to liberalise the Finnish healthcare market, now suddenly restricts the market by means of special legislation, that you may buy, but you must not buy this much, or you can only buy that or that unit. Another point of view is that, at this moment, municipal decision-makers cannot blame it if they take the lead in their own hands, as it were, and secure their own service when the government's proposals are so unclear. And if today’s alcohol law decision remains in force — there is still a chance that it will change, but if it should now remain in force — then that means that after that all the savings that have been contemplated will be wasted and there will be a further bill. In other words, the whole of the wars could basically be buried and returned to the normal order of time and told all residents that Merry Christmas, peace in the country, goodwill in all — albeit a little more drunk than before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u84	Madam President! The debate is important, and this is where the debate has waned from side to side. Perhaps, however, the key thing is that it is said jointly that society was surprised that the market forces so strongly set off to pursue Finnish social and health care into their own hands. It has just happened that, in my opinion, the government, in a sort of naive way, was entrusted with loyalty, but these aggressive attempts did not do so. In view of the situation in Meri-Lap — that is, in practice, in the vernacular, Lex Meri-Lapian — there the Bee took over the situation so that unskilled lawyers in the municipalities were taken away like rams from the string and their inability to control contract law was shown. Consider this: no practices regarding rents, i.e. the amount of rent is determined by the municipalities, and accordingly the counterparty determines it as an excess price at the same price. All devices are released free of charge for the use of the Bee. In practice, it is the case that: The bee is not even able to answer for the content of that agreement. I understand, therefore, that the government panicked for ordinary people. Politicians were now under a bit of a sledgehammer locally. And I would say that society and Parliament must have the opportunity to decide on such laws. After all, Lex Kittiläk was used, which stated that the decision-makers in the municipality felt that they had acted in a negative way. Now we are dealing with the area of Meri-Lap, and I have explained here that Salla, among other things, is currently doing the same thing and in many other places, and I have explained that there is a monthly rent of EUR 1 000 in those outsourced care facilities for the elderly. This law of restraint is really needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u85	Madam President! I would not be so critical of municipal decision-makers, nor would I blame the business community, but my eyes would turn to that government. If the trombone makes an inconclusive sound, then the army is not going in any direction. Yes, there is now such an utter incompetence and incompetence within the government in communicating and clearly describing these things that there is a feeling that soon the government itself will not really know what it means.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u86	Madam President! I just want to mark my own opinion in this diary as a member of the Administrative Committee. Of course, it can be found in the opinion of the Administrative Committee. But as noted earlier, the municipalities have been driven into a situation in which the parliaments are forced to protect them from themselves. In practice, this kind of action against municipal self-government does not, at least personally, enjoy my confidence, but I would like to say here that it does not enjoy the preparation of government social services in other respects either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u87	Madam Speaker! We always like to talk about these so-called root causes. It's one of those fashion words of the year. I'm sure the root cause will end up in the "What's Where" book. If we look at the root causes of this debate, of course one is that we have public spaces in a terrible state at the moment. There are a very large number of buildings built in the 70s to 80s that do not meet modern needs in terms of health, safety and all their requirements. There we have a real bomb ticking and partly already exploded in those municipalities and joint municipal authorities. It is one of the backgrounds for seeking solutions for these properties, outsourcing them, selling them, becoming these new types of models. It is, in itself, very positive that the Sipilä government has taken this matter very seriously, not just in the speeches. Now we have this Healthy Indoor Air Task Force of the Government, which will then try to figure out how we can get these public spaces in order and solve this mold bomb. The second root cause is what the representative Mr Laukkanen made a very good point, so now we have to stop talking about it. After all, our last term of office was virtually a waste of time. We are now doing eight years of work in four years because the Red Red Government, in which the Christian Democrats were also involved, was unable to deal with this matter. I fully agree with Mr Laukkanen that we must now complete the war and put an unnecessary brake on all the world and put an end to such additional 15% proposals on this Friday afternoon, so that it is every week and a month's certainty in that field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u88	Madam President! Mr Kurvinen, last season this was achieved in good cooperation, but the constitutional problems were met. On the basis of the extension, we would not be in such trouble, that this government is already making the real estate business a full mess, and what else? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u89	Irade the Talman! After all, this whole thing went off the rails at the time of 2015 when two things that were not related, freedom of choice and the regional model, were started to collate with each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u92	The case shall be suspended. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 4.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u93	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 3.58 p.m. today. The detailed examination of the third item of the order of business begins. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u94	Mr President! I suggest that the article takes the form of what we object to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u95	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-15-ps-143.u96	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
