ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u1	Mr President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, welcome guests! Ärade Republicans President, ärade ricksdagsledamöter, basta inbjudna gäster! Almost a hundred years ago, on Thursday 6 December 1917, Parliament adopted the Finnish Declaration of Independence. Independence seemed so uncertain that the newspapers of the next day had little headlines and at most two columns of short news. Nearly as much was written about a coincidence that had occurred on the same day in Toijala. At that time many children of the poor family had to leave school because parents could not afford to get their children school clothes. So the municipality arranged clothing collections. The clothing provided by the citizens was packaged into gifts given to the poorest students at the school’s six festivals during Christmas. Now, however, there had been little or no collection of clothing. Santa had left his container empty, the children had cried for disappointment. Maybe one of the students couldn't go back to school. The picture is moving: The children around the tree are waiting for gifts that will not come. Not even worn, old clothes on shiny papers. This was a Finnish society a hundred years ago. Poverty cut off the schoolway for many children, some became exclaimers, many depending on the help of the benefactors. It was all random. Even in the first decades of independence, municipalities held auctions where children without guardians were sold to those who agreed to provide maintenance for a year at a time. The auctions were held in the poorest areas, the smallest children were raised to the table, the larger ones stood on the podium. The broker held the shoulder with his left hand, waved the club with his right hand, and said: "Now there is a hardworking, healthy and obedient young man, seven years old. What do you want?" We Finns can be proud of how far we have gone from these poor houses auctions. Today, children’s lives are being protected in maternity clinics even before birth, young children are being treated with social support at home or in day-care centres, and older children receive basic education from highly skilled teachers. Finland is the second most just country in the world for children, and Finnish children’s childhood is the third most secure country in the world. Thanks are due to homes and schools, professionals and volunteers, organisations and society as a whole. Vi finländare kan vara över att vi har kommit så långt från de tider då man auctionnerade ut barn på fattighusen. I dag börjar man värna barnens liv på rådgivningarna redan före födseln, de små barnen vårdas hemma eller på daghem med samhällets stöd och de större barnen får grundläggande utbildning av lärare med hög koletens. Finland är det näst rättvisaste landet i världen för barn, och barndomen i Finland är tredje tryggast i världen. Att det har blivit så har vi många att tacka för: hem och skola, yrkesfolk och frivilliga, organisationer och samhället i stort. However, this intact picture also has its cracks. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, about one in ten Finnish families with children are poor and over 120,000 children live in these families. Children themselves see poverty with their eyes. "I'm a little sad-looking, I'm a muddy-necked bridal-mother-year-old, pictured her fifth-grader boy when she was challenged for her home poverty. Broken socks are easy to fix, broken life is not. The earlier children can be supported, the better for society. In the end, the work of the clinics will also determine the sustainability of the Finnish pension system. Finland's 100th independence. In honor of the centenary year, Parliament makes a solemn decision to donate EUR 50 million to the Children’s Foundation for the centenary of the Year of Independence to state-owned shares. The Foundation uses the return on donated capital to promote the well-being, equality and good future of children and families with children living in Finland. Foundations and regulations are only means, and we all aim to create as happy a life as possible for every Finnish child. För att fira Finlands Hundra år av självständighet fattar ricksdage ett jubileumsbeslut om att donnera actier som staten äger till ett värde av 50 million euro till Självständighetsjubilets Barnstiftelse. Stiftelsen använder avkastningen av det donerade capitalet för att främja välbefinnande, Jämlikhet och en god framtid för barn och barnfamilener bosata i Finland. Stiftelser och författningar är bara medel. Vårt gemensamma mål är att varje barn i Finland ska få ett så lyckligt liv som vöjligt. Ladies and gentlemen! In honor of the anniversary of independence, Parliament has returned to the renovated Parliament House under these statues of Wäinö Aaltonen. The granite of the Parliament House is a Finnish national stone, hard and durable, just as Finnish people have been. There's also a lot of moreen in our soil. In the words of Lauri Viida, I would like to thank the veterans for defending our country, for rebuilding our country and for all the other people who have worked for independent Finland so that we can live in such a great country now. I hope the story of our country will continue as happy as it has been so far. To the left, to the right, to believe, to wish one under the sky, to live!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u2	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. One round of group speeches will take place in the order of size of the parliamentary groups, with a maximum of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u3	Mr President! Civil War, Winter War, Continuation War, Economic Crisis — Finland’s history has been a story of survival. Children born a hundred years ago were born into poverty, survived the war as young men and moved on. They saw a broken homeland and moved on. They faced the Cold War and moved on. It's been a long time since we've been out of trouble. There has also been much caring and wisdom, confidence in the future — an attitude that can be overcome. Tomorrow, when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Finland, it will be a real celebration. Independence was not taken for granted. It took the right timing, courage and wisdom. On 15 November 1917, Mr Santeri Alkio, representative of the Rural Union, proposed that Parliament take the highest decision-making power in Finland. The proposal was supported by a majority in Parliament, and the decisive steps ahead were the steps towards independence. But the hope of the beginning was tested by a tearing civil war. Kyösti Kallio spoke to the full Church of Nivala in May 1918: "We must create a Finland where there are neither red nor white but only Finns who love their country, citizens of the Republic of Finland, who all feel that they are members of society and enjoy themselves here." Finland began to rise, slowly but surely. This budding unity saved our independence during the wars when the veterans of our wars bravely fought together with the home front. Independence was saved, but the price was high. Instead, the eyes turned forward again and began to work. And what kind of Finland was built: free primary school for all, maternity and child health clinics, health centres, Wirtanen, Mannerheim, Canth, Forest industry, Etyk, Kekkonen, Nokia, Ahtisaari, Supercell, Holmström... Over the course of a century, Mr President, Finland has risen from a poor and bloodthirsty nation to one of the world’s leading states — from a story of survival to a story of success. It is one of the safest, cleanest, happiest places in the world. But it is just as important, Mr President, as history, to look ahead. We are developing Finland not for the past, but for the future, today's children and young people, even for those who have not yet been born. It is also underlined by the solemn decision to be taken today. The Finland in front of us looks a little better again. The economy is growing and employment is improving. Finland will rise again. But not everyone's doing well yet. Our country also has a lot of confrontation, different bubbles, extremes, even poverty. The wise words of the Rock are still timely. Finland must not be allowed to be divided in two. We're not tearing it up. We're building it. Take care of ourselves and each other, including the weaker ones. And let's take care of this great country of ours. We build a better Finland for our children and look ahead. On behalf of the Central Parliamentary Group, I wish you all a happy Finnish Independence Day, together — Tillsammans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u4	Madam President! The Parliamentary Group of the National Coalition Party congratulates 100-year-old Finland. Finland means a little different to each of us. This is a country of thousands of lakes, quiet wildernesses, the best education in the world, slow spiders, women's rights and equal opportunities. There are more than 5 million different shades of Finnish and Finnish. Freedom and democracy make Finland Finland. One hundred years ago, Finns took their futures into their own hands and carried out a centuries-old desire for freedom. From these first days of free Finland a long journey has been made. Our independence was not taken for granted. The generations before us paid a heavy price for our freedom. Our respect is great, and we are eternally grateful and happy that they did not give up in defending a free fatherland. To date, 50 years ago, Parliament held a formal session to celebrate Finland’s 50th anniversary. Then Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, Member of Parliament, Professor Olavi Sourcemäki then said: “I think there are two important words in the title of the proposed rule: ‘Finland’s independence.’ We have reason to remember what all these words include when, in a moment, we adopt the rules of the fund. We will then think gratefully of what we received 50 years ago and what it is obliged to do. At the same time, we look with confidence to the future." These words can be echoed in this 50 - year - later celebration. Think gratefully of what we received 100 years ago — and what Finland’s independence will require us to do in the future. The decision taken in 1967 on the independence fund Sitra has been a valuable contribution to the future for the country. Sitra has been able to reach out to the future, always one step ahead. Parliament's 100th anniversary gift to independent Finland is an investment in the Children's Foundation for the Year of Independence. The purpose of the Foundation is to promote and support the well-being, equality and good future of children and families with children living in Finland. The Foundation also promotes and supports parenting as well as the growth conditions and education of children. The welfare of our children will determine the future of independent Finland. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party believes that investing will be as far-reaching a decision as it was when Sitra was founded. Mr President! Finally, I wish you good luck with an independent 100-year-old Finland. May your future be at least as bright as our 100-year-old history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u5	Mr President! Jussi and Alma persisted in making a good life for themselves and their family. Progress in society was not quite easy. Jussi also said that "what else would the poor save from eating?" Here under the North Star, the work sums up well how tough the Finnish mind is. These descriptions of Väinö Linna sink deep into the Finnish heart. Finland has been built with hard work. Every generation has wanted to give the next one a better life than they have ever had. Despite the difficulties, it has been good to live in this country. During Russian rule, Finland developed towards an independent state, but for a long time sought its inner integrity and identity. At the end of the 19th century, Finland's independence was only beginning to blossom from its crust, but the look was strong in the future. Many times of fate and pain in history were still ahead, but the challenges were ready to be met. National cohesion and faith in the future are the forces that have enabled a resilient Finland to struggle through difficult times and to become the best countries in the world with almost all indicators. Mr President! 100-year-old Finland lives and breathes from the heart rate of a changing world. Increasing interdependence and technological development challenge us to become more active in interaction with each other and the world around us. We have to build bridges, not walls. We can be a mirror to the world: raising intact children, caring for the weakest, fostering equality and protecting our invaluable nature — creating a good future for which the rest of the world is modeling. Finland’s success story is a story about how anyone can become anything. This has created confidence that we are in the same boat. Many things have changed in history, but our strengths need to be carefully nurtured. In order to continue to be proud of our beloved country, our children must be able to live in an environment where everyone is valuable, where there is neither hate speech nor bullying because of diversity, where everyone can learn and culture, where people respect each other. We need courage and foresight. We need solutions that genuinely keep Finland together and everyone involved. Here we decision-makers have a very special responsibility today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u6	Mr President! The story of 100-year-old Finland includes deep pain spots and large profits. It can accommodate both war and peace, hard work, courage, sacrifice, and hard work. When we look at a 100-year-old Finland, we can see that every turn in history has brought us towards this day. Our country and its inhabitants are the sum of the events and actions of the past. Nothing should be taken for granted. In this context, thoughts are turning towards those who have to be thanked for allowing us to live in an independent Finland. Our war veterans, who at the risk of their own lives defended our country, deserve our eternal gratitude — the Blue Future considers it important that they be appreciated and provided with all the services they need. As we look back, we should also look forward with courage. How do we continue the work of previous generations, what kind of Finland do we want to build for the next 100 years? We must be able to make sustainable solutions for future generations. This includes caring for the environment and promoting equality. Mr President! We are all part of the story of Finland. We live in the spirit and courage of the previous knees, but only by blowing together can we survive in a changing world. Cooperation between parties must be improved and understanding between people increased. Otherwise, we will not be able to solve the problems that need to be solved. 100-year-old Finland has already been a pioneer in promoting gender equality in its youth: we proudly remember that Finland was the first country in the world to grant women full political rights. As a nation, this heritage of equality should be cherished and promoted. Much has been achieved, but there is still work to be done. Apart from equality, one of the cornerstones of our country is a functioning democracy. We should also be proud of that. A living example of a functioning democracy is the Blue Future Party founded in Finland in the centenary year of Finland. According to our name, we look ahead and want to reform Finland. The well-being of future generations was the starting point for a joint legislative initiative by all parliamentary groups to support children and families with children by EUR 50 million through the Children’s Foundation for the centenary year. The aim is to reduce exclusion and inequality. The better the children start their lives, the stronger and more united Finland will be in the next 100 years. Mr President! Work in front of Finland continues, but today is the time for celebration. Congratulations to a 100-year-old country!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u7	Madam President! Mr President of the Republic! Honored veterans of our wars! Ladies and gentlemen! "Street forests, beach tracks/on the outskirts of valleys birch sharks /ah, trail ravens, railings/flowering mounds and strawberries!" — Regional song of Central Finland. The story of 100-year-old Finland is amazing. We've been in the rough North, between East and West, seen and experienced a lot. Independence 100 years ago was not taken for granted, nor was it preserved in the four wars we experienced at the beginning of independence, when our home, our freedom of faith and the country of our fatherland were in danger. We appreciated what we had, and it made us work together. A lot of people sacrificed their lives. The veterans who survived the war and the people of the home front built and reformed the country. And there was also a Finnish horse. They built front manhouses, cleared fields, managed Finland’s forests to be conditioned and productive, put the rapids, rivers and lakes into circulation and the trees to swim. It gradually produced heavy industry, jobs, skills, success and well-being growth through hard-working hands. We humbly acknowledge that without protection, without sacrifice and without work, we would not be here. Thank you for building us Finland, veterans of our wars. We must not forget our history. We look to the future. The children and young people of Finland are the future of our country. The strength and success of our country will continue to depend on the work of new generations. Young people were asked what their view of the future was. The prospects of employment and the desire to influence their own circle of life and society, they answered. It's great that young people have a desire to get involved. Let us do our utmost to give our children and young people education, work, opportunities and faith in the future. Let's give them support and presence. Let's hear it and see them. It's all coming out of the house. Mr President! The Finns Party hope that Parliament’s gift to 100-year-old Finland, the Children’s Fund for the Year of Independence, will support the growth of our children and young people into balanced adults through their work. The funds the Foundation receives as a birthday present give us permission to expect the results of the Foundation’s work in this area. May we wish our beloved country much happiness and a bright future. Let us defend this land of thousands of lakes and forests, its pure nature and people. Let us take good care of Finland, let us build it together, for there is only one Finland, and it is now ours, but we will leave it to future generations. Happy Fourth of July, everybody!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u8	Madam President, ärade fru talman! The Green Parliamentary Group congratulates the 100-year-old Finland. Despite its very difficult platform, Finland, which is 100 years old, as we know it today, has been built together with the work of generations. We can rightly be proud of its results. I would like to raise a few points which, in my view, make this country particularly valuable. The first is Finnish nature and its four seasons. Forests, bogs, lakes and archipelagos are a source of strength for Finns. Nature is a strong part of our identity, and it is important to cherish it for future generations. We have an early understanding of the essential welfare of society: the more equal the people, the better it will be for all. The progress of equality is one of the key success factors of the country. It has allowed women to join men in building our society together. The general and equal voting rights were already laid down before independence, and many women were already present in the first Parliament. Over the decades, we have built a country in Finland where income differences are small and all children and young people have equal opportunities to train and create their future regardless of their background. We've taken care of anyone who needs help and whose own powers are running out. This is a valuable legacy that we must not crumble.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u9	Madam President! It's party time tomorrow. We celebrate the success story of 100-year-old Finland. The history of independent Finland is the history of the welfare state. In a hundred years, Finland has risen from poverty to a welfare society, for which we owe thanks to the previous generations. We can be proud of an equal society based on the principle that no one is left behind. Together, we have ensured that everyone can enjoy the fruits of well-being built together — that even those who are doing worse have the right to a decent life, that common safety nets protect us when pits are hit and that life surprises us that, regardless of the basis for life, everyone is taken care of. The welfare state deserves to be defended for the next 100 years. Defending well-being means investing in education and training, that every child has the right to quality early childhood education and education. This means that we ensure high-quality social and health care for all Finns. Defending well-being means supporting families with children and supporting parenthood in maternity clinics, homes and workplaces. This means that we help all kinds of families to cope with the challenges of life, that we fully appreciate the invaluable work done by teachers, early childhood education professionals and others working with our children, that we guarantee the resources and ability of child protection to help when families are not doing well. Defending a welfare state means fighting inequality and child poverty unconditionally. Mr President! Children are the future. It is right that Parliament respects 100-year-old Finland by supporting the well-being of children. The Children’s Foundation for the Year of Independence produces research, trains and distributes information, advises, supports and develops services that support children’s well-being. Children, families with children and those working with children deserve our full support. That is why investing in the foundation set up for this purpose is the right choice. Mr President! It is wonderful that we were able to return to this hall in the centenary of independence, decorated by the sculpture series of Wäinö Aaltonen in the back. The child in the middle, called the Future, in the sculpture in the arms of his mother looks at us as parliamentarians and reminds us of the importance of our work and our responsibility to future generations. Let it remind us from one day to the next that the decisions we take have far-reaching implications for the long-term future. Let's build our kids a future where everyone can survive. Let's give our children Finland and the world where it's good for everyone to live. The Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance congratulates 100-year-old Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u10	Ärade talman, Mr President! "Laglighet,Medbestämmandeochframsteg". Detta motto Hade K.J. Ståhlberg, det självständiga Finlands första President, som höll i pennan då författningen Skrevs. Det var tidlosa ord he yttrade. Ståhlbergs startka concreteng av lagligheten ska ses mot bakgrund av den skarpa tudelning landet genomed 1918 Directive effecter självständigheten. Etter de upprivande krigshandlingarna gällde det att få känslorna i styr och lämna motsättningarna bakom sig. Det självständiga Finland skulle byggas upp och endräkt skulle kapas. Då, Liksom nu, har vi orsak att försvara det öppna rättsamhället. Finland är ett land som kan vara stolt över sin history, sin kultur och sin tvåspråkighet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u11	Mr President! 100 years of independence, freedom and stable democracy must be respected. It is important for us together — Tillsammans — to stop and remember and respect the way our grandparents fought for freedom and built the well-being of our country, prayed and worked. The cost of freedom has been high on front and home chests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u12	The next plenary session of Parliament will be held on Thursday, 7 December 2017 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-05-ps-131.u13	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, please. In accordance with the old tradition, we will end this opportunity with a three-time cheer for the Fatherland.
