ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 2/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 21 March 2017. With the support of Silvia Modig Satu Hassi, the debate has suggested that a legislative proposal based on objection 2 be taken as the basis for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u2	The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u3	Mr President! I propose that Article 18 be read as follows: the tasks of the ely centre take the form of object 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u4	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u5	Satu Hassi, supported by Riitta Myller, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u6	Mr President! I propose that Article 52 be read as follows: the possibility of delegation of decision-making powers to the municipal board of directors of the establishment plan takes the form of objections to the committee's report 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u7	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u8	Satu Hassi, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u9	Mr President! I propose that Article 71a be read as follows: Large retail entities take the form of objections to the committee's report 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u10	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u11	Satu Hassi, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u12	Mr President! I had to vote on section 71a, no.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u13	All right, let's mark this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u14	Mr President! I propose that Article 71e be read as follows: The quality of retail trade can take the form of objections to the committee's report 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u15	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u16	Satu Hassi, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u17	Mr President! I propose that Article 191 be read as follows: the right of appeal takes the form of objections to the committee's report 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u18	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u19	Satu Hassi, supported by Silvia Modig, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u20	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs MmVM 2/2017 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then at second reading on the legislative proposals. The debate was closed at the session on 21 March 2017. In the debate, Markus Mustajärvi, supported by Harry Wallin, has proposed that the agreement and the legislative proposals be rejected in accordance with the objection. With the support of Jari Myllykoski, Markus Mustajärvi has made a proposal in accordance with the objection. Jari Myllykoski, supported by Markus Mustajärvi, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives as a multiplicity. Johanna Karimäki, supported by Antero Laukkanen, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives as a multiplicity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u21	I propose that the agreement and the legislative proposals be decided together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u22	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Opinions shall be put to the vote on each report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u23	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 March 2017. In the debate, Ms Eeva-Johanna Eloranta, supported by Jukka Gustafsson, has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1. Sari Tanus is Antero Proposals 1 and 2, tabled by Mr Laukkanen, which have been distributed to representatives on multiple occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u24	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Opinions shall be put to the vote on each report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u25	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 2/2017 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The committee proposes that the legislative proposals be rejected. The debate on this subject will take place until 3:45 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 3:45 p.m., move on to the next item in the order of business, i.e. 7.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u26	Mr President! This is therefore a citizens' initiative which would like to ban employment contracts which are less than 18 hours a week, i.e. zero-hour contracts. The committee agreed that such a categorical ban could not be imposed on less working time, but rather on the instruments for resolving matters, there was some disagreement in the committee. For the sake of clarity, I am now presenting the majority of the committee's report, but I myself have signed an objection as chairman of the committee. The Committee considers it important that employment contracts should continue to be able to carry out small and occasional work, either on employment or on the form of work, such as seasonal fluctuations or peaks of congestion or other such unforeseeable urgency, and also when agreed in the agreement between the two parties. If we look at the current situation in zero-hour contracts, we have more than 80,000 employees, according to the latest statistics 83,000 employees who work on such a zero-hour contract, which may vary from zero to 40 hours per week. And if you compare it with temporary work: these zero-hour contractees account for about four per cent of the workforce, while temporary agency work accounts for one per cent of the workforce. So, in that sense, it's a very significant crowd. Of these people who work on zero-hour contracts, about 30,000 people are students, and they have generally missed no additional hours, but of the 21,000 employees who work as if and live on zero-hour contracts, the majority would like more hours. In addition, around 32% of people working on zero-hour contracts work in practice full-time, full-time, and on a permanent basis. When the committee dealt with this issue, it found a number of problems in the zero-hour contracts and first drew attention to economic uncertainty, the fact that these hours do not always provide the worker with sufficient income and they also vary at very short notice, and then the worker cannot foresee the level of his income or the nature of his monthly and weekly working hours. The second problem relates to the way in which such a zero-hour contract of employment is terminated, because in practice the employer can take hours to zero without justification and this situation can continue for a very long time. So the employee has an employment relationship, but in practice he has zero hours of work, and the committee notes that the termination of the contract is not affected by whether the employer offers a job or not. As part of the overall reform of the working time legislation, the committee expects that the regulatory need for the termination of a zero-hour contract will be assessed by taking into account the legal security problems currently associated with the termination of the employment relationship. The second problem relates to shifts and additional work arrangements, i.e. when working on such variable working hours, it is not always known in what order additional work is offered or to whom it is offered and when the worker is obliged to take additional work. With regard to this problem, the committee stated that, in the context of the overall reform of the Working Time Act, the committee would require an assessment of the need to amend the provisions of the Working Time Act relating to the working time list and the supplementary working consent to meet the specific needs of zero-hour contracts. The third point relates to the consolidation of working time, which is, in fact, the central issue of uncertainty in the case of zero-hour contracts. It is actually difficult to regulate the establishment of working time and it is inadequately regulated. It is unclear on the conditions and time during which working time can become a condition of employment, as the case-law is also limited and inexact. And the establishment of working time is therefore important in terms of what kind of sick person's salary or what kind of salary, for example, is paid during parental leave or maternity time, or is it at all received at all? In the context of the reform of the working time legislation, the committee expects the government to examine whether the establishment of working time can be regulated in a way that takes the needs of the worker and the employer into account. The next problem is unemployment security and variable working hours. At present, it may be that the employee has an hour at zero or is very small, but if the employee resigns from such a job, the Employment Service will interpret that he has, as it were, resigned from the job even though he has not actually had a job. Even when a zero-hour contract involves situations where there is a problem with the fulfilment of the condition of employment, i.e. if there are less than 18 hours of work, the condition of employment does not arise even if a person works on a permanent basis and a week after a week. In this situation, the committee requires that variable working time and unemployment security and other social security be coordinated in a reasonable and appropriate way for the worker. The next problem was the ban on competing activities. Although the law is now quite strict on how to impose a ban on competition on an employee, the committee’s hearings actually revealed that in practice people are required, as it were, to apply non-compete clauses to a contract of employment, in which case they undertake not to work for another employer, even if they are in very few hours in the service of their own employer. The committee also stated that the committee would require the government to assess the need for further regulation of the ban on competing activities. There are also problems with the competitive situation from the employer’s point of view, since it is a question of a zero-hour contract and circumventing the employer’s obligations in normal employment and in employment relationships identified by law that are treated with every respect, that may mean that an employer who hires employees on a zero-hour contract can benefit from a competitive advantage when he does not have exactly the same costs as other employers. The committee therefore calls for special attention to be paid to the competitive effects of contracts for varying working hours when drafting legislation. A working group on zero-hour contracts is under way in the Ministry to find a solution to these issues. The committee also heard about their situation, which, in part, seemed to have not necessarily been able to find solutions. The committee considered it appropriate to assess the extent to which existing legislation provides an adequate framework for the use of zero-hour contracts and the extent to which the shortcomings experienced can be addressed through monitoring and adequate information. The committee's report contains proposals for statements which I do not go through as a whole, but their basic approach is that the government should pay attention to the problems of starting work, the problems of doing work and the problems of ending work, and how these zero-hour contracts are linked to employment contracts and unemployment security legislation. The committee called for the government to assess the need for further regulation on the following issues. These are the problems described earlier in the report: In addition, the need for further regulation in relation to the clauses in the ban on competing activities should be clarified. In addition, Parliament requires that in the preparation of variable working time arrangements as part of the overall reform of working time legislation, unemployment benefit and other social security are coordinated with variable working hours. In addition, the statement requires the Government to pay attention to the distortive effects of zero-hour contracts on competition. The last step is: "The Commission requires that more precise regulation does not prevent the conclusion of a variable working time contract in work where the needs of the workforce are unforeseeable and where this is in line with the will of both parties to the contract of employment. Moreover, regulatory changes must not reduce employment and hours worked in the national economy." There has been an objection to this, which provides solutions to the problems described in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! That is where Mr Filatov, the chairman of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, went through things well, but I will repeat a few points. Indeed, the citizens' initiative and its discussion began in Parliament about a year ago with a public hearing in March, and we also heard 33 different experts, which was very carefully prepared. I would like to thank everyone who has raised this issue. The current situation is that minimum working time is not regulated by law but can be agreed upon — some collective agreements may have solutions to these. As Mr Filatov pointed out, there have been some 83,000 of these zero-labour contractees in 2014. Employers have been asked about their views on the use of the zero-hour contract and why it is used, and they told us that because of fluctuations in labour demand and seasonal and seasonal patterns, and of course others have sick leave, for example. For employees, a zero-hour contract is appropriate in order to receive additional earnings in connection with work, studies or childcare, even retired people do occasional work. Working under a zero-hour contract is carried out in very different ways by different employees. The committee's hearing revealed that some people have a job, for example, 16 hours a week, but then others have more or less nothing and then zero hours a week or occasionally a few hours. Indeed, the committee, as Mr Filatov has said, has found some shortcomings that we want to correct. And here the important underlying idea was always the financial uncertainty that the worker suffers, and the employer's ability to circumvent the regulations specifically intended to protect the worker. And these, as a whole, are the serious underlying shortcomings that were found in several key areas, and I will not go through them again, because Mrs Filatov went through them, but I will say them: The problems related to the conclusion and the termination of this agreement were one, precisely in the situation where work is not available, for example, and this should be regulated. Another problem is that, in this case, if an employee terminates a contract of employment, the employment office has considered that there has been an unjustified termination of the employment relationship and that it has been granted a degree of Karennish treatment. The second problem has been that of working and additional work arrangements, and the committee has called for regulation in this regard, because workers are not always subject to prior work schedules, for example. Everyone understands that you can't go anywhere in life. On the other hand, there is the need for an employer on the other side. If, for example, there are replacements for sick leave, of course, you can never be sure in advance who will fall ill, but, of course, if you are on duty, the list must be. The committee then found the problem of this stabilisation of working time to be a problem; it has been difficult to define it so far. It has been applied for in collective agreements, but it does not exist in law, and the committee has now required that it be looked at and seen how it could be regulated, since it affects, among other things, the amount of sick pay and pay on sick leave and the conditions for the termination of employment. In addition, unemployment benefit and that variable working time are problems. The coordination of zero hour contract work and unemployment security and other social security has proved problematic for the employee, and solutions need to be sought. Among other things, this is a question of this toughness, which I mentioned earlier, and it requires amendments to the Unemployment Protection Act. It was also pointed out that employment contracts use a ban on competing activities, which has already been regulated by law, but it was also asked to explain why this is because it must not be used unduly. Is it a question of employers or employees not knowing about this and whether it is being misused and whether further regulation is needed? And so it came to the point that we need to find out how fair competition between companies will be achieved if there are such zero-job contracts: that it causes distortion? The committee considered that if this were to be completely prohibited, the ban would therefore also apply to part-time work based on fixed weekly working hours, i.e. unanimously the committee considered that this could not be done as it was. And the committee pointed out that there are situations in which entrepreneurs and employers need to work less than 18 hours a week, and that there is no need to prevent such work from being carried out by legislation. Many employees also want to work for a shorter time than 18 hours a week. I myself know examples of that Hyvinkää, of which I am saying that we would like to work 2 hours a week in the store at night. Well, the employer has not been able to implement it now because the collective agreement requires at least 4 hours a week. The small entrepreneur now makes these 2 hours available himself. This, of course, would not have had any effect on this either, but I also saw this as an observation. The committee concluded: "The committee proposes to reject the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative." So this is unanimous. "However, the committee calls for the government to become involved in measures to resolve the concerns raised by the citizens’ Those statements deal with the problems we found. This is where we expect the government to take action. On the same day that the opinion was delivered, the members of the SDP's Committee on Labour and Gender Equality made a statement in public and announced that in some way the members of the Board of Directors have restored their zero-hour contracts — this is by no means the case. I just read the end of the committee. Minister of Justice and Labour Lindström has promised the rules of the game. There are now tripartite negotiating groups which deal with these issues in detail. We cannot begin and we do not have the skills and opportunities to go into all the details in committee, because we can ultimately do more damage than good. And I could say, and I thank Minister Lindström, that he has acted exceptionally effectively. The citizens' initiative rarely receives similar measures even before the committee's report was submitted, which is what happened in this case. According to my information — I was not here during the last parliamentary term, but this is how I have been informed — for example, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, attempts were made to resolve the matter at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, but there was no change. I would like to thank Minister Lindström for the fact that he has indeed promised that the rules of the game will be reviewed. The tripartite working group is a better place than the parliamentary committee to consider the details of labour law. Many times in this Chamber you hear that we are doing things together and we are looking at things in peace, and I do not quite understand that this is in some way impassioned, as stated in the protest of the SDP and the opposition parties. I don't know how we should do this even better now. We have highlighted the problems. The Minister has promised to take them forward. What else could we expect when this is a pretty great thing? This is an important matter for us to get these things right. There were so many problems there, but we couldn’t start writing there in style. And once again, thank you to those who took the initiative. This is progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u28	Mr President! To begin with, referring to what Mr Mere has said, from the point of view of the Left Alliance, the disagreement in committee was not about whether or not the committee should shape the articles, but about whether the government should be required to look at the problems of the zero agreements or to do something about the problems of the zero agreements. All the statements now contained in the report adopted by the majority of the committee contain conditional formulations which oblige the government to reflect, to look at, pay attention to, but not actually do anything at all — and, moreover, in the last statement, the majority of the committee's government parties are very restrictive of the conditions under which the government can make this reflection and reflection, in such a way that the margin of manoeuvre is relatively small. What the Left Alliance would have wanted: the Left Alliance would have liked a report in which Parliament would have required the government to resolve the problems of zero agreements, but the committee was practically unanimous. Well, how can these problems be solved? It was also agreed in committee that the solution proposed by the citizens' initiative for a ban of less than 18 weekly hours of work was not working and does not correspond in any way to today's labour market and people's needs there. It is likely that addressing the problems of zero-hour contracts will require a number of multi-level solutions. This is likely to require new legislation — we have proposed, among other things, the establishment of working time, the right to lay off where work is not actually provided, without unemployment benefits, and the extension of the obligation to provide additional work to zero contracts. It may also require an extension of existing practices. Quite a few of the positive aspects that have been brought to the debate by people in zeros are such that these arrangements can be implemented equally well, for example in the context of framework trade agreements. This requires a completely different level of law than it has been so far, for example with regard to the abuse of non-compete clauses. In addition to everything else, it also requires a fairer culture in the labour market, so that someone's ignorance or weak position is not exploited. Zero contracts, variable working hours contracts, are a good way for some groups to find employment and additional earnings. However, there are also important factors that undermine the rights of our workers and distort competition in our labour markets. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that the good qualities of zeros can be achieved by other arrangements in such a way as to avoid these shortcomings and the problems created by zeros in our labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u29	Let us take Mr Vartiainen and then Minister Lindström's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u30	Mr President! The citizens' initiative on zero-hour contracts has raised real legal security problems. They sometimes involve, for example, the duty of an on-call nature to come to work at short notice without being clearly agreed upon. For example, it is necessary to consider whether labour law is in place in this regard and whether the work schedules are given in advance, as they should be, and whether workers are required to enter work in an unreasonable manner without, however, having so much hours available in general. It is also necessary to assess whether the minimum content of the contract of employment and the report on it is required. If you have to come to work on short notice if necessary or work more than what was required in the working schedule issued a week earlier, it must be agreed in a fair way so that both parties know what has been agreed upon. In addition, the necessary weekly rest must be ensured. Apparently, in some cases, zero-hour contracts may also be used to circumvent employer obligations related to sick leave and dismissal. Of course, the majority of entrepreneurs operate fairly, but worse practices appear to exist. It is therefore appropriate to consider whether existing labour law is in place or whether it should be specified in terms of the definition of the pay for sick periods and the pay for lay-off periods when working with variable working hours. It has also become clear from the committee's consultation that some of the problems raised by the initiative show rather that the current legislation is not being sufficiently complied with. That is why it is also a question of implementing the law by means of education and supervision. Some of the problems raised are also based on the fact that the employee is a person who is difficult to control his interests and who does not necessarily know and is not able to see his rights. As a result, we learned from the consultation of legal practitioners that if a variable working time contract has been signed but there have been no or very few working hours, it is not even clear that the whole agreement exists. In such a case, for example, the entries included in it concerning the prohibition of competing activities may not even be binding. However, the application of the ban on competing activities, in the event of a low number of hours worked, is also an issue to be addressed in the reform of the Working Time Act. Mr President! Some of the problems of the initiative can therefore be solved, perhaps in the context of existing legislation, with better implementation, but of course there may also be a need for legislative changes. A well-functioning collective bargaining model has also been developed in some sectors, such as trade. Therefore, solving all the problems does not necessarily require new legislation. One of the shortcomings highlighted in the initiative is unemployment benefit and its qualifying provisions in the event that the employee has little or zero hours in his contract and practice. The committee and the experts have agreed on this, i.e. that the provisions on unemployment benefit must be revised in this regard so that they are not unreasonable to the worker or the unemployed job seeker. The committee and its experts have also been somewhat unanimous on the fact that the initiative as such is not feasible. It would be a serious intervention, with minimum hours, in the freedom of contract in the labour market and would apparently prevent a significant amount of work and increase the cost of work. The starting point of the convention is, of course, that all work is carried out on the basis of the genuine will expressed by both sides in the employment agreement. In our economy, there is a crying shortage of working hours that generate tax revenue and, therefore, freedom from contract must not be restricted on light grounds. There is work in the economy that is really part-time, unpredictable and random, and it must be possible to do it when both parties want to and understand it. Of course, the legislation must prevent unfairness, and that work is now under way. Mr President! It is clear from the above that work on variable working hours is a complex whole which requires an examination of the entire legislation on working time and labour law. Consideration must be given to the establishment of working time, the pay of sick periods, the salary of notice periods, working schedules and also unemployment security. Therefore, a sensible approach is to link the solution to these problems with the overall reform of the working time legislation currently under way. The working group set up by Minister Lindström is working on this. In addition, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is 15. The second working group set up on 1 November last year to clarify the rules for zero-hour contracts. One of the tasks of the mandate is to assess the potential need for legislative changes to safeguard the status of workers while at the same time allowing the use of sufficiently flexible working time arrangements where the needs of the workforce vary in an unforeseeable way. Of course, the committee expects the work of these working groups to be coordinated in a sensible way. In other words, by drawing together, Mr President, the committee requires the government to take measures to resolve the shortcomings raised in the initiative, either by preparing the necessary amendments to the legislation or by making their implementation more effective. Mr President! The Zero Hours Initiative has therefore received the careful reception and consideration it deserves from the government. The problems raised by the initiative have gone straight to the preparation of the government and to the preparation table of civil servants and labour market expert organisations. The committee has listed the problems associated with variable working time contracts in its report and calls for them to be resolved by the government in its preparatory work mentioned above. [Department : Check! ] At the same time, the committee insists that such additional regulation should not, however, hinder or hinder work on varying working hours or occasional occasions, when it is actually based on the will of both parties and legal security problems have been resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u31	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u32	Mr President! Thank you for all these feedbacks. It warms the mind that all parties have taken this matter seriously. This is important to me because I have promised here the rules of the game for zero-hour contracts — which are not there at the moment — and that is why I am following with great vigilance what is happening with this issue, and not just following it, but being an active player in this. So now everyone knows this problem field. There's no point in repeating them. The committee therefore concluded that this citizens' initiative itself does not go through — that there are good things there but those that would have been problems. In my opinion, the committee acted wisely, and these statements, which are there, do not mean that I take more than a meal to consider or evaluate matters. So that is where the work will be done and then the proposals will be brought to the decision of the government, and that, of course, is the place to see what comes through. This ban on the use of zero-hour contracts was therefore not appropriate in the view of the committee either. Of course, this could have led to the lack of such employment opportunities or to the employer trying to deal with such situations in a way other than that of employment workers. Well, whatever we are doing now, these shortcomings must be resolved in such a way that at the same time the disadvantages associated with the zero-hour contracts are minimised, yet the employer is guaranteed the possibility of covering the low labour demand with the workers in his service, and this is of course a demanding exercise. Of course, even if it is always justified and ideal for the functioning of the labour market that work should be done in such a normal fixed-time employment relationship whenever possible, we still need opportunities to use this variable working time, and it is great that the committee has also recognized this. These questions may, in principle, be resolved either by the Employment Contracts Act or the Working Time Act or by means of clarifications to both laws, and when these possible changes to labour law are assessed, they relate to the contractual relationship: the rules of the game applicable to the balance and clarity of rights and obligations of both parties, on the one hand, sufficient predictability of the future level of earnings of the worker, the safeguarding of contractual expectations and the coordination of employment contracts based on variable working hours with the employment law system, inter alia by reducing the possibility of circumvention of employment protection. It would also be justified to examine the status of those working under zero employment contracts in the unemployment benefit system. It has also been made clear in these previous speeches. As has been said, this preparation has therefore been initiated under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, the task force which aims at fair rules of play in zero-job contracts. These results must be ready by the mid-term review of the Government. This is in the 10th list that has been agreed with the social partners. So this is the promise, the fair rules of the game, and the details will then be specified as this work progresses. Thank you for your excellent work for the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u33	I understood, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a need for a few debatable remarks. You will understand that the minister only has a few minutes, so let's take a few short minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u34	Mr President! I was delighted that the Minister made it clear in his own speech that legislative changes were needed. Unfortunately, the committee did not have the courage to take this position, but the committee's conclusions state that either legislative changes or better implementation will proceed. I believe that we need both, and this was one point on which the committee voted, among other things, because the Social Democrats would have liked us to clearly outline the need for legislative changes and better implementation. In this Chamber, we are often accused of having no choice. I have rarely heard a congressman from the United States accuse the Social Democrats of having an alternative. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: when we have listed the possibilities by which this zero-hour agreement can be resolved, would it not be one of the key issues for the law to ban between 0 and 40 hours of variable working time at the time,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u35	Mr President! Indeed, in this committee we have major problems with the fact that, although there are laws, they are not being complied with much. I would have asked the Minister — a good speech was made by the Minister: has it been clarified why it is not possible to monitor working life better in Finland, that there is better implementation in this particular area of labour law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u36	Mr President! Good speeches, everyone. It is only with pleasure to say how the Minister points out that he is not just on the sidelines, he is active — but hopefully this does not mean that the Minister is actively following. And now that Mr Lindström has the political control, I ask: could Mr Lindström at this point meet so much that he will change the drafting of the task of implementing the working groups in such a way that it will take the form that is more necessary for this objection, so that the working groups will have to provide the solutions that will enable these matters to be dealt with, rather than just see what can be done here? I would like a positive answer to this, because we will remember what we think of the last period together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u37	President! Originally, this citizens' initiative has been an emergency call. As far as the work on this citizens' initiative is concerned, the committee has done an excellent job. It is certainly not just a black and white issue. This is not a no-and-no question, nor is it a either-or-question, but it can at best be both-and-a-question. This cannot be categorically lumped into an unambiguous question. Minister Lindström is doing an extremely good job around this. I understand that if we do not proceed on the basis of the principle of the triad, it would be unnecessary to rock a boat that would not take this issue forward in the desired and absolutely necessary direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u38	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fifth statement of the report, which was adopted separately, which requires that the solutions found should not reduce the hours worked. This is a crazy idea if it is taken seriously, as it should be taken seriously. Firstly, it is impossible to assess in advance any legislation or measure which is so small in scale. Secondly, this idea makes hours of work equal, regardless of the productivity or conditions of work, which is indeed problematic from the point of view of labour market development. I find it foolish that the government parties allowed such a statement to remain there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u39	I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Paatero, Mr Semi and Mr Laukkanen, and if the Minister wishes to speak after that, then that will be the end of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u40	Mr President! The citizens' initiative did so seriously and truly with great concern and a desire for legislative change. That is why we must be surprised when this report reads how the government parties, unlike the Minister just now, do not want to change the legislation. I would have imagined that legislation is the way to change Finnish society, especially since we do not have, as we have just heard, rules for these zero-hour contracts because it does not exist in any legislation. That is why it is important that it is even mentioned in the legislation, and that is why it is the only way to bring it into the law there. For this reason, I am very confused by these views of the government parties that it was not wanted to write that this would require a change of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u41	Mr President! This proposal for a zero-hour agreement, which, as a citizens' initiative, has come here, is an urgent cry from the workers for the legal loophole that has been left in the Employment Contracts Act. Just now, when the minister described the situation as having reacted to this situation and seeing that these gaps need to be filled, I would ask the Minister: In what order do we start unloading this big sum, and which holes are the first to be filled? How is it guaranteed to those who sign a contract of employment that their livelihood will also be guaranteed during periods of unemployment, even though they pretend to be working without working hours?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u42	Mr President! The Minister has made the right observation that it is important for all parliamentary parties to bring zero labour law agreements to a fair level, and that is a great thing to hear. I would also like to thank the Minister for being proactive, as it were, and, before this matter is even here, he has set up a working group to consider the problems of a zero-labour agreement and how to deal with them. I would now like to ask: does the Minister have any idea when this working group will complete its work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u43	Minister on site, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u44	Mr President! Thank you for these questions. Before I start commenting on any details, I will simply say that this is now in the working group. Here a few speakers raised the issue of coordination with other working groups. This must be done sensibly so that we do not have to fix these things many times. I referred in my speech to the fact that if we do not currently have rules for zero-hour contracts, it is very difficult for me, at least with this experience, to see how they would come without legislation. So that's why I dared to say that it still requires some law, because this is... [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, there was just a window of time during which the replies were requested. Now it's closed for now. The minister has to leave. Let us take a few list statements and then, at some point, return to the debate. All those who asked for a reply within that window of time also received it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u46	Mr President! The absence of legal changes in the opinion does not mean that the government cannot make them in its great wisdom. If the government considers that a problem that has now arisen will only be cured by a change of law, then it must also be done. Work is the most important way to make countries and cultures flourish. A successful country has always worked hard and worked hard first, and it must also be the Finnish line. Work has recently been undergoing a major change: productivity has developed and is developing enormously, work is different and more diverse than in the past. Then let's look forward or backwards, and we'll have to be in the same line as our rivals. Mr President! The top point of the citizens' initiative under discussion is that no one should be employed for less than 18 hours a week. This excludes a huge variety of work. Who will do the work in the future? My guess is the gray economy. It would therefore reduce our national product and our success. That is totally unacceptable. I believe that all forms of work and its provision and reception should be allowed, possible and profitable for both the employer and the worker. Mr President! The citizens' initiative, and in particular the committee hearings, raised quite a lot of issues to be corrected in Finnish working life. This is something we need to address, because our social partners have so far not been able to reach an agreement. The main problems encountered in the committee were the individual abuses of the employer and the fear of workers being managed. According to the report, abuse is about circumventing labour and working time laws, such as, for example, non-existent protection against dismissal or an unexpected reduction in hours worked. Moreover, due to the differences in work, there is no uniform practice for the establishment of employment. The chairman of the committee gave a comprehensive presentation of the other problems encountered during the hearings. So there are laws, but they are not respected. It is therefore appropriate to improve practices. On the other hand, it can only be corrected by better enforcement of laws. Mr President! Eliminating abuse is an important issue and I do not, under any circumstances, accept management with the fear of workers. It is not part of Finnish work or working life. Nor is it part of Finnish work that employment contracts are used as a means of competition, for example by deliberately planning shifts so as to reduce employers' contributions. Contracts of employment must be equal to the employer's load for all companies, and this should not be encouraged. Mr President! A variable working time agreement is particularly needed when work changes, as is the case now. If work is done where it exists, it will also lead to better labour productivity, and so will our competitiveness. For students seeking to enter the labour market, as well as for many other groups, this model of agreement is also useful. At the hearing in committee, it became clear that we cannot afford not to do any work, nor can the ban on zero-hour contracts in itself solve any of the problems described in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u47	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Zero employment contracts are the worst form of employment contracts of our time. From an employee’s point of view, it can take weeks without an invitation to work, without hours, without pay, and in this case without a pension. A person may be strictly bound to this contract of employment and may not work for others but may not receive unemployment benefit either. Zero hour workers are the most vulnerable in Finnish working life. There are about 83,000 of them, and they really deserve better. In the light of the statistics, they are mainly young people under the age of 30, and especially women. Zero contracts are typically found in trade, social and health services, accommodation and catering services, transport and storage sectors. The majority of people working on zero-job contracts would like more hours of work. A young woman told me: "I've been working part-time for years. There has been a constant hope of getting more work so that I can live on my merits. Too often, the distribution of additional work is based on a variety of criteria for favouring different people. My employer can drop the hours to zero, which means chaos for me to pay the rent and the bills." Mr President! Zero contracts are used to some extent for the sole purpose of circumventing employment protection. This isn't right. Dismissal is circumvented by the fact that the duty schedule of a zero hour worker does not simply include shifts. Any reason is enough, even if the wrong word or the fact that the employee has become pregnant. Labour law is also circumvented in such a way that the working schedules are not completed in advance, so that a zero-hour worker becomes sick without pay for sick hours. An employee who has not been employed for hours may become a parent at the Employment and Economic Development Office, even though the hours and salary have been zero per month, and in this case he or she will also be excluded from unemployment benefit. It is difficult or almost impossible for a zero hour worker to obtain a loan or credit card from a bank. Life planning is difficult with small incomes. The setting up of a family and childcare is a major problem for many because of the uncertain hours at work. Each of us needs the predictability of our lives. No one’s life must be nothing more than being alerted, waiting for it if the phone rings and the request to come to work comes. The problem is that our legislation does not know the concept of a zero agreement or anything that refers to a zero agreement. It is just bad practices that have emerged in the workplace because the law does not specifically provide for what can be agreed. And this citizens’ initiative sought a solution — and the more than 60,000 people who signed that. Mr President! The SDP wishes to address the problems and shortcomings of the zero-hour contracts and we have protested at the work of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. We require the government to submit a draft law restricting the use of a model for the variation and consolidation of employment contracts and to lay down the obligation and order to provide additional work and to submit a draft law on the prohibition of manifest abuse and, at the same time, to supplement the law on co-operation and to introduce a draft law on the pay of sick periods in the use of the range model, as well as a draft law on contracts and framework contracts to be called on to work, if necessary, and a draft law on the amendment of Chapter 2a of the Unemployment Protection Act, namely the severity of unemployment security. In response to our objections, we will be making statements at second reading. Mr President! Prime Minister Juha Sipilä and Minister of Labour and Justice Jari Lindström have repeatedly stated in this Chamber that the government is open to and ready to promote all good performances. I wonder how the majority of the committee was not willing to record in the report that the government would be required to amend the law. However, it is a good thing that Mr Lindström has just given the impression that he is in favour of amending the law. Mr President! Zero-hour contract practice is socially dangerous because it threatens to turn Finland into a low-paid country. Low-wage countries are not known for their well-being, and that is not the way to go. The wage level of young generations is already below the wage level of older generations when they are in the same phase of life. The reduction in the wage level of young people has mainly taken place in the private sector. This development is not good for the tax revenues of the Finnish state and the future of the Nordic welfare state. Young people themselves are eager to work. For example, according to the Unemployed Youth Voice Barometer published last year, about 90% of unemployed young people were actively looking for work. If the dream of work does not come true, the young person will be exposed to the risk of exclusion. If we do not act quickly on zero agreements, we will be doing a great disservice to young, hungry and ambitious generations in the long run. They want to reform jobs, organisations and their operating culture but are stuck in uncertain zero contract life and short-term and part-time work for years. Gradually, young people lose faith in the rules and consistency of working life, and working life in unremunerated young people and women continues to lose the courage, vision and the power of reform that would be indispensable for the renewal of Finnish working life. Mr President! Finnish young generations need positive special treatment from the parliament and advocates of economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u48	Mr President! Interesting conversation. Perhaps the most important point is the different views within the government party as to how binding the report should have been. I very much appreciate Minister Lindström's message about the box. It was much bolder and more encouraging than Mr Vartiainen’s comment on the sidelines and reflection. Mr Suutari of the Government Party made a good point of saying that we cannot have systems that undermine the neutrality of competition. It is completely impossible to think that someone’s business is carried out by activities that deprive another entrepreneur of competitive opportunities. It is easy, in a way, to continue a little with what is being done in the social welfare reform. The committee was consulted and the committee was informed that there are a large number of social and health care companies with a regular working week of 37.5 hours for up to two years, and they are still dependent on zero contracts. You can be sure that public health can't cope with these companies who can stop working when you get sick or something else that is normal for you to take care of your obligation to work on the public side. In other words, we must also take into account what is being done here, because this has a major impact on the social and health work sector, where the government is proposing freedom of choice and incorporation in all its forms. I believe that Mr Lindström's views and speeches are based on his genuine commitment to change these issues, and I have black and white on that. Last season, with Mr Karnä, the Social Democrats, we did, one might say, a similar bill to ban zero contracts. I'm not saying this is a copy, but not many words have been changed. This bill was signed by current Minister Lindström, Chairman of the Party Timo Soini, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Jalonen, and then representative of the Finnish People's Party, Mr Tolppanen. But I do not want to put pressure on the Minister with this, but this gives me the message that he is serious about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u51	Mr President! It's as incredible a policy as it can be. So, once and for all, the Finns of Peru have announced, also under the direction of the minister, that we want the rules of the game here. And, as the Minister said earlier, the rules of the game are legislation on loopholes. He said that there are disadvantages for workers, but the employer's chances are in the balance. He is an active actor, acting wisely and taking seriously, no matter what form they are here now. We all agree that the citizens' initiative for a zero-hour contract cannot succeed in this way and that regulations are needed where they are lacking. What are we still arguing about? It's a word form. We now want to politicize and select certain words. Yes, I have to say that I know that the locals are coming, but hey, seriously!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u52	The reply, Mr Filatov, and then Mr Myllykoski, who is responsible for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u53	Mr President! I believe that it seems like a quibble: and-or a word, and I also believe that Mr Meri sincerely wants the rules of play for these zero-hour contracts, as does Minister Lindström. But in committee we voted on the need for legislative changes. The Minister here said that legislative changes were needed, but the committee was of the opinion that it could be resolved either by legislative changes or by better implementation — and that is the big difference. Those of us who have looked at the practical problems of life and knew that without the help of the law there would be no solution to them, do not believe that without legislation this problem would be resolved. That is why we were unable to accept the line taken by the committee, which left the back door open, as it were, to ensure that there was no need for legislative changes, but that implementation could take care of the matter. And maybe there's a big difference inside the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u54	The reply, Mrs Myllykoski, and then the debate seems to continue on the basis of the opening of Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u55	Mr President! Mr Meri realised that this is a question of politics, but I said so clearly that there is a bit of politics involved. I did not incriminate or demonstrate the actions of Minister Lindström in any way. But, as Mrs Filatov said earlier, there is quite a big difference between the words 'and' and 'or', and I believe that, if I have understood correctly, a representative who has received legal training. The sea understands the difference between two words: "and" and "or". The question here is whether we want to recognise with hope that the report contains it 'if not, or not'. That is what this is all about, and I think that this has been particularly well mentioned in the committee's objection to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u56	At this stage of the debate, I will give the answers to the representatives of Kurvinen, Suutari, Meri and Kontula, the only ones I can see.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u57	Mr President! I believe that this citizens' initiative, which is now under discussion and on which the report has been produced, is rather the beginning of a wider process. Now these shortcomings have really been addressed. It can be said that, for a long time, the ay movement, dominated by the demars and the Left Alliance, imagined that they were all 40 years in full-time employment for the same employer and that this situation was not noticed by many workers, especially young workers. I think it is a good idea to build on this unanimous report from the committee. Thank you very much to the committee for looking through this initiative very carefully, and thank you also for the fact that Mr Lindström, the Minister of Labour, has now taken up this matter and is taking matters forward. The little one is going to split the comma, maybe this conversation at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u60	Mr President! It was quite clear in the committee that we want legislation where the government is considering not helping others. If there is a law already in place and it is not followed up, then better implementation could be done, and the government will also consider it. So I do not think that this is a very big issue, but politics is, apparently, politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u61	Looks like the Debra's going to be going on for a while. However, I will now give the floor to you at this stage of the debate. I have marked here and I would like to repeat the following answers: representatives of Meri, Kontula, Joona Räsänen, Filatov and the person who started this debate, Mrs Myllykoski. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u62	Mr President! Well, it is a good thing that it was admitted here that it was a question of politics and not of taking this issue forward. When you said the words "and" and "or," you certainly don't need a lawyer's training to understand the difference. It is stated here that, for example, a competitive employment contract is governed by the Employment Contracts Act. Surely we do not now expect to have to write twice about this if it is not followed up to the present one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u65	Mr Meri and Mr Suutari, neither in committee nor in this Chamber, in my view, has required that new legislation be drawn up which already has legislation, at least I have not noticed. When drawing up the report, the argument of the government parties went so far as not to have to insist on government intervention, because the government does it anyway. But I do not understand that if the government does it anyway, then why not make it necessary? What would have been lost if Parliament had required the actions that the government apparently is doing anyway? When this was vigorously opposed and avoided, it certainly casts doubt on a strategy called burying in the working groups,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u70	Mr President! I have to wonder, though, that when the opposition here praises Minister Lindström for his very clear speech on the need for legislative changes, then the representative of the same party here will be angry that here [Leena Meri’s interlude] Then I will correct Mr Kurviselle so much that I understand very well that you have been called here to defend the largest government party, but this was not a unanimous report. I am sure that you will be able to look into these texts so much that you will also be able to go over any objections when we start arguing about them here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u71	Mr President! In fact, I find this debate, even though it seems a little glaring, to be gratifying, because it is more rigorous than the debate in committee on how to resolve these issues and also more rigorous than that report. That report describes those problems well, but instead of finding solutions in legislation and requiring legislative changes, it is very thin. And if we agree here that we need legislative changes — and I hope we do — then we will actually get a tighter line from this debate in the Chamber to the Minister. But the most important thing is that those solutions are found. And we all know that tripartite groups must also have political will. If there is only a will between the social partners, employers and workers' organisations, it will very easily be placed in a situation where there is no solution, because you want them to go in a different direction. That is why I found it valuable that the Minister here said that he was actively following those working groups and looking for them because of their
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is scheduled for a maximum of 15.45. That is to say, this issue will then be suspended and resumed and we will come back to that at a later stage. However, I now see that there have been so many requests for reply that we are going to have this debate here until the end. I am now asking, so that no one who has ever risen will be left without representatives who want to make a reply to this stage of the debate, to stand up and press the V button. After this stage, this dialogue window will close, and then I will not give any more answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u73	Mr President! I find it interesting that if you disagree, you want to go a little like personal lines, but I will ignore it. I don't think it's worth provoking when you're provoked. I wanted to tell you very strongly that the People's Party of Finland wants these rules to come, and I and all of our members in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. But we wanted to leave it to the tripartite working group, under the Minister's active control, to find the best means: to which laws, are there any regulations there? We didn't want to go out there and screw around. This is just the point, as the left-wing speaker pointed out, that we want to do politics, and that is a good thing. That's why I'm gonna leave you two to be political on this subject in the future. I thank the Minister, I thank the people who have taken up the citizens' initiative. This is certainly moving forward, and the Finns are firmly in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u74	Mr President! When you listen to this debate, it sounds as if there were constant disagreements in that committee on these matters, and yet this citizens' initiative was dealt with very, very unanimously. Our starting point for all certainly was that the zero agreements must not weaken and circumvent the mandatory provisions of labour law, which are adopted for the protection of workers. I believe that this has been the starting point. The consensus was quite close when this report was being drawn up, and unfortunately, because of the different weightings and perhaps also because of the different verbs chosen, there were two different views. But I am sure that we all want this matter to be taken forward and brought about changes in this long-standing issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u75	Mr President! However, it seems that we are all of us in this Chamber that the worst situation is for the worker when the employer does not offer them certain hours of work at all, but the worker is still tied up just waiting for those occasional hours without the opportunity to take on another job. So when this is like a positive feeling in this Chamber, I wonder why we could not then put that firm demand in the committee's report, but left it a little like floating in the air: maybe there is a need for a law, perhaps not. In other words, I am sure that there will be a stricter position in this Chamber, and it was also gratifying to hear the Minister's firm position. I'd like to ask you now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u76	Mr President! It is a very good thing that this citizens' initiative has been addressed with such care. Indeed, I would like to thank Minister Lindström very much for his contribution to giving strong support to the careful examination of this issue and for setting up a working group, which is very positive. It is a cold fact in today's Finland and the world in general that the nature of the work has changed tremendously. Machineization and automation, and whatever has created a whole new career, a whole new kind of job. There are jobs that only exist for a moment. Yes, we must respond to this as a parliament and precisely to ensure that every worker has reasonable rights to his or her own work and that his or her rights cannot under any circumstances be violated. These statements, which are contained in this report, are excellent and I believe that Mr Lindström, with his own strong contribution, will make a strong contribution to these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u77	Mr President! There was an article in Helsingin Sanomat this morning saying that people are increasingly coming who need to have two jobs. Of these two workers, quite a few are those who do not have the full-time job — because even one full-time job in Finland now mainly manages and is able to support their families. That is why, in addition to this citizens' initiative, there is always a debate on whether we want to have a cheap labour market in Finland with the German model, where society will always support the second part of it. This is not the way the Social Democrats want it in any way; we want a decent job, which, as President Halonen said in his day, is a decent job, so that you can live up to your own salary and support your family proactively.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u78	Mr President! I have to say that it is nice when there is praise from that part of the city centre that we are here on the left side of the stone age, but I must say that we have just intervened in this issue of zero-labour contracts during this parliamentary term and during the last parliamentary term. We have proposed the introduction of a tax number here. We are concerned that we have a lack of social security for self-employed workers, we have wanted to promote it with left-wing views. And we understand that there are freelancers in this country. Representative Meri, who now leaves us here to politicize, now I have to say: I told you what politics was. It was that I raised what was the name of the signatories of this similar bill during the last parliamentary term, and it was a purely political statement which I confessed and what I said, and I do not use this sort of thing very often,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u79	Mr President! When I was at all the meetings of the committee dealing with this matter, I cannot agree with the opinion of the chairman of the committee whom I have appreciated: yes, the debate there has been uniform and rigorous in relation to the problems that have arisen. Yes, everyone felt that they had to be fixed, and then there was just and/or. Of course, we can continue to do so here, but I cannot agree with the fact that there was no firm view of things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u80	Mr President! The majority of the committee and the majority of the government parties had a firm position on this issue, and I am pleased about that, but after we had agreed in committee that we would negotiate a common position, the government parties decided between the two committees that they would not negotiate a common position. I won't interfere with what happened in the middle, because it's none of my business, but that's how this pattern went. What would have been essential would have been for us to say out loud that changes in the law were needed, and what would have been essential would have been for that last step, which, as it were, to nullify what is said in these other policies, to have been out of it. But the Social Democrats' alternative to this problem is that when work starts to need variable working hours, it is justified by the work and the range is minimised in such a way that it is not 0-40 but, for example, based on criteria 5 to 15, 10 to 20, and if you go one way or the other, it is negotiated and the rules of the game are laid down. This would solve the problems of the notice period, this would solve the pay of the sick period
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u81	Mr. Speaker! I would now like to make Mr Räsänen a little more specific when he obviously misunderstood what I said: It seems that the committee has agreed that such a rigid hour limit would be a bad thing, and I am sure that it is also appropriate to say in this debate that such a zero hour agreement can be a good option in a given situation in life. At least I personally think that a zero-hour contract is better than no employment contract. Yes, it is better than unemployment, and perhaps we still have a little disagreement here. I am referring here to Mrs Myllykoski, who has mentioned these achievements of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u82	And one last response, Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u83	To begin with, we must thank Mr Kurvis for this clarification. Just like that, I'm sure we agree that this kind of 18-hour minimum working time would not have been the solution that this problem should be achieved. But when much has been said here about the fact that there is a great deal of consensus on these problems, which is well described by the committee in its own report, it is certainly clear that there is also a need for legislative solutions to these problems. And that is what Minister Lindström said unequivocally about the need for legislative solutions. That is why I still wonder why this has not been agreed to by the representatives of the government parties in the committee, since it could have been recorded in this report as the chairman of the committee, which is exactly what Mrs Filatov has been going through. This debate will now remain a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u84	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u85	Mr President! There has been a very important debate here, and I think what is gratifying is that the government—the opposition-cross-border debate has, however, been on the side of these zero-hour contracts quite a bit, but everyone wants to improve this job security. This is a good starting point, because I believe that this should also be the case. If necessary, those who are invited to work, i.e. the so-called zero-contracters, will live in a waiting state every day, and this does not mean pregnancy. You never know when you'll be invited to work, but you have to be ready all the time. Planning everyday life, the need for child day care, keeping your own hobbies or holidays is a lottery. Maybe tonight I can go to the park with the kid. Maybe I can't. The employer decides without any notice. You cannot afford to get sick, but what happens to a zero - hourer when you get ill or hurt accidentally? What's his job security, his family? There is much talk about the fact that it is a good way for students to find employment in the context of zero-hour contracts, but they worked before zero contracts. We have now made shredding even more mulch, even more uncertain. We already have an obligation to provide additional work for part-time workers before we can hire a new workforce. But how is it possible that part-time is only increasing when, logically speaking, there should only be one part-time job at a time until his hours are full, and only then will a new workforce be employed? Working life is changing and, in reality, working life is no longer what the legislation thinks. That is why the legislation needs to be amended in order to take more account of the real reality. Full-time and permanent contracts have been and gone. Work is now being done on a temporary basis and on a part-time basis or only if necessary. However, the law must safeguard the status of persons in atypical employment relationships, income, protection from dismissal, right to strike, pay for sick periods, maternity and paternity allowance, etc. However, reality is often not the same as on paper. At the moment, we have employees on at least three floors. The most vulnerable are the zero-hourers, who are practically outlaws. Why is this so, and why should this continue to be so? There are explanations, of course, but the question is probably more important than just temporary work. I think it is actually a question of maximising what is known as efficiency. It is not a good idea for an employer to hire an employee in case of accident, but only when it is necessary. If necessary, the workers invited to work or the temporary workers will allow them to plan duty rosters without any break-up margin, maximising the economic benefits at the expense of the workers. Zero-hour contracts mean all rights to the employer without any responsibility. Of course, the obligation to provide additional work also means that, for example, the store must first provide possible additional hours of work for the already existing part-time employees, but if that is not possible, then call the worst person, that is to say, the person who is invited to work if necessary, who will be on call every 24 hours to invite him to work. His life is waiting without a protective net. In some cases, zero contracts may be desirable and desirable by the employee. For example, a student could choose to work without fixed weekly working hours, but an exception should not be made a rule. The spirit of the citizens' initiative must be taken seriously and the legislative measures it is required to take. Every employee has earned his or her salary and value, and this must be made visible in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u86	The general discussion and the proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u87	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u88	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all those who initiated and signed the citizens' initiative. Your work has led to this important issue being raised, and I also believe that the zero agreements will be changed to safeguard workers' rights and better agreement for all parties involved. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, Tarja Filatov, for his presentation, which gave a comprehensive description of the committee's work on the matter and also of why some of the members of the committee wanted to make a difference of opinion. We felt that the report did not adequately describe the measures needed and that the 5th declaration of the report in practice accepted the current status of zero-labour contracts. For these reasons, I am involved in a different opinion. There are no legal provisions on minimum working time, but the contract of employment is free to agree on working time and that working time varies within a certain number of hours. For example, working time in the contract can be from zero to 40 hours a week, and the employer can offer employees a variable amount of work or not at all. Such contracts are referred to as 'zero-work contracts' or 'variable working time contracts' and 'extra-workers', for example, or, where appropriate, 'employees'. The report also states that working on a zero-hour contract is carried out in very different ways for different workers. An employer may offer regular work on the basis of a zero-hour contract, for example, 16 hours a week, but it is also possible that only individual and short-term work schedules are offered to the employee and the lengths of individual work periods vary or that hours are not offered at all. There are many shortcomings in working under the Zero Hours Agreement, of which the worker's financial uncertainty and the employer's ability to circumvent the provisions intended to protect the worker are the most serious. Many employees take part-time work or work on a zero-hour contract only because there is no full-time permanent work available. The Zero Hours Agreement does not always guarantee a secure income for the employee, nor does the employee have sufficient opportunity to anticipate their income levels. In addition to economic uncertainty, working on a zero-hour contract makes it difficult to reconcile work and private life, as it is common for zero-hour contract work to be accepted at short notice. The employer’s ability to stop providing work permanently without a specific decision on a normal employment relationship is the most important aspect of employment law problems relating to zero contracts. Formally, the contract of employment remains in force, even though the main feature of the employment relationship, working for consideration, has ceased. This employer's ability to undermine a number of rights laid down for the protection of workers. These include the provisions on dismissal and the right of the employee to receive pay for the period of notice. The employer can also avoid paying maternity and sickness pay, as well as circumventing probation provisions, lay-off provisions and provisions on the basis of fixed-term employment relationships. Mr President! There are so many things here that you can't do in any other way than change the law. Let it be said quite simply. The problems of these zero-job contracts have been concrete to me through my close friend, whose employer, from his very own point of view, is taking advantage of the shortcomings of the zero-work contract. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the bill for these irregular incomes and the lack of unemployment benefit is paid by the parents of the young worker, who then compensate for these shortcomings, what is here. This unfair treatment of young people, the direct exploitation of young people, has now been made clear also through the hearings of the committee, and I hope that the Minister of Labour will hear with a sensitive ear, as he has promised, and as I believe he will do, this content of the committee's report and, in particular, the grievances that arise in protest, and we will soon receive a legislative proposal which will bring zero labour contracts to a decent level of employment law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u89	Mr President! Thank you to the signatories of the citizens' initiative. This debate on zero-hour contracts is very important for the correction of the disadvantages of working life. Indeed, the objective of this citizens' initiative has been to ban zero-hour contracts by law. The zero-hour contract must definitely have fair rules of play, namely that many workers who have signed a zero-hour contract have been in difficulty, for example, because of toughness, even though they have not actually been able to work for a long time. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has also shared the concerns of citizens' initiative makers about securing employment conditions and income opportunities for people working under a zero contract. However, as the committee points out, there are many situations in which entrepreneurs need to work less than 18 hours a week, and the absolute prohibition of contracts of less than 18 hours a week could lead employers to find alternative ways to work or, alternatively, to reduce their activities in this regard. In the worst case scenario, work would not be carried out at all. In this way, it is justified to maintain flexible and usable employment contract legislation and to leave the possibility of meeting the need for a limited and occasional workforce. Mr President! As has been said, the government has begun to prepare a reform of the rules of the Zero Hour Agreement under the leadership of Minister of Justice and Labour Lindström. Last November, he set up a task force to work out the rules of zero contracts. The problems will therefore be resolved together with the social partners in the tripartite working group, which is exactly the right place to reflect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u90	Mr President! When I have to present the report as chairman of the committee, I am taking the floor here because I am able to say a little more about why the Social Democrats came to the conclusion that they cannot accept this committee report — a little more than on the 'yes and no' list, as it did in the past. When we went through these problems in committee, it became quite clear that we needed legislative changes, and it was therefore a great disappointment that the committee did not accept the fact that the legislation had to be amended. What those wordings would have been would have been irrelevant. And perhaps why we are so passionate about the need for amendments to the law is because, during the previous parliamentary term, this zero-hour agreement was actually properly clarified and evaluated for the first time, when those studies and evaluations were carried out, when the problems were addressed, and also the possible solutions, and it was obvious that workers and employers in this country have a very different understanding of how these issues should be resolved. Employers are of the opinion that our current legislation is sufficient — it is reflected in the previous report by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy — and we simply need to implement better the articles that we have. And, of course, this would be the case if all employers were fair and thought with fair rules of play, but we know that living life is a little different. When we in the committee heard experts on labour law, they again said quite clearly that zero-hour contracts are not known in the legislation, that is to say, the rules on zero-hour contracts do not exist in the legislation. In practice, we have a situation in which the employee has greater obligations vis-à-vis the employer than the employer vis-à-vis the employee. In other words, the employee must be at the employer's disposal from 0 to 40, but the employer does not have to commit to giving the job, even if the contract of employment is signed, and that is the core problem. That is why the Social Democrats would like to see this 0-40 sensitivities squeezed as little as possible. It can be variable, and it can be different. You can make contracts that only agree on 1 hour a week, that's perfectly possible, but then the employee knows and can predict that I have the 1 hour job a week. But if the employee's fork is between 0 and 40, we are dealing with a completely different kind of uncertainty. That is why we have built a model in which, as it were, there is such a margin for flexibility, that if there is a margin of 10 to 20, then working time can be flexible in both directions in a certain amount, and if we go beyond this certain amount, then we must see what the right and actual working time is. If this gap were to come true, it would solve many of the problems we have in the zero agreements. In fact, without some concept of established working time or some kind of avoidance, this problem cannot be solved, because it is not known what pay is paid during sick leave, which is the salary of the notice period or the salary of any parental leave, but it always falls between the dispute. There must be some kind of game rules for the average amount of these salaries. If, then, as is said in this last effort of the committee, between 0 and 40 hours can be agreed when an employee wants to agree, in fact, the idea that there is an average number of hours or the average working hours on which work is based is watered down, and that is why these two things in this report are quite crucial, although they may seem very small when we are discussing a few words here. In addition, it would be essential: we currently have a practice, for example in the Yt-Law, in which part-time workers are identified on an annual basis and this is subject to a procedure and whether they are justified as to whether or not they are necessary to carry out their work. Of course they sometimes are, but sometimes they are not, and in this procedure they can be covered by unnecessary part-time. This is the same procedure we would like to see for these flexible working hours: let us see if we really need such long periods of flexibility. In addition, these 32% are essential, which therefore work on a zero-hour contract but are in practice in a full-time permanent employment relationship. In other words, there is no need for flexible working hours, but the need arises from the fact that the employer wants to keep the sign that if the face does not please or the workforce is not sufficiently humble or flexible or otherwise, the hours can be pulled to zero. And if there is no ban on such obviously unjustified zero-time agreements or on variable working hours, we will also not be able to catch up with this core problem. In addition to this, there is a need for solutions to unemployment security, and I believe that it will come out of those working groups, because it is easier to solve and there will be easier rules of play for it. But this definition of working time is difficult, and that is why I would have liked us to have given the minister some backseat or some strength to the twist that is needed in those working groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u91	Mr President! A long, long time ago, I heard from a young person in Kotka that he had been promised a summer job and was really excited. At the end of the summer I met the same youth who said that when it was such a rainy summer he was not invited to work once. It took all summer and the euro was not paid. Since then — and this is more than a decade ago — this model has become familiar to more and more people, both young and adults, not just in summer jobs, but in work all year round. That is why the citizens' initiative was and is very necessary. We in Finland have thought that all the rules of the game that have been discussed here today are based on the law. And if we do not have a law that specifically takes care of the interests of a vulnerable person, then we are rather weak. If we are talking about contract-based rules that can be applied for something, there is no appeal to the point where we are in a dispute and should be able to assert our own rights. For this reason, the only and possible way to change this situation is to bring into our labour legislation a specific paragraph which says 'zero labour contracts', because otherwise these working conditions, whose problems are linked to such things as dismissals, sick pay, holidays, pension accumulation and everything else, are separate from this everyday life. That is why this report, which has been written by the committee, gives answers to what these problems are. But the only way to deal with them is to write them there in the law. Finland should have the opportunity to live and support its family through its own work. There should not be a situation where, if it is a full-time job, we have to obtain social security, on which we are constantly discussing, for example, by the head of Kela or by some ministers, that the benefits are being paid too much. But some interest groups in Finland too, as in other countries, are pushing Finland into a situation where it is possible to manage low-wage sectors for people, and they receive only part of the hours, and then society is obliged to pay for the rest. But what person is able to build a future for such thinking that there is no knowledge of next week’s hours or salary? Not much. That is why this transformation, which in fact has probably taken place in the last ten years in relation to these employment relations, must now also be taken into account at legislative level at the latest. Here a representative made a good point of looking at the professions of these part-time and part-time workers, where they are located: in particular, the trade sector, the care service, health care and the service workers. And now that we are perhaps — if — moving towards a model where all social and health care sectors are managed by various companies, whether public companies or private companies, I am afraid that this use of zero-labour contracts in the care sector and the social and health care sector, when competing so to speak on the same line, will also be true here on the public side, because it is already quite strongly on the private side. And what else can you compete with than just the euro if you do not go into the same rules of play for the workers? That is why I understand very well in my own parliamentary group the fellow Members who have had to protest against this in order to strengthen the need for legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u92	Mr President! This citizens' initiative to ban zero-hour contracts was very commendable because it allowed a very broad and high-quality debate on this problem, too, and it is now explicitly lacking in these reluctant zero-hour agreements. To begin with, it is quite understandable that there have also been people in some situations who have been happy to work on such agreements, but when you look further at this, it is clear that there is a problem that needs to be resolved. It cannot be right that when a contract of employment is signed, then there is no job. There is a point in the contract of employment that the starting point is that some work is actually being done. Nor can it be right that current legislation allows you to work in full hours for several years, and then when it happens one time that you have to talk to your employer, if you have such a zero-hour contract, he will drop your hours to zero. In fact, it says that such a situation should not be possible. Now that this committee's report recognises these problems caused by the zero-hour agreements to a very large extent, the legislator would have needed the will to remedy these problems. In this context, it is particularly commendable to Mr Lindström for his very clear speech and will when he said that legislative changes are needed to resolve this problem — unambiguously: legislative changes are needed to resolve this problem. Perhaps, therefore, it should be wondered that the government parties have not been able to do the same in committee. There was a lot of discussion here about whether it was only the words 'and' and 'or'. I am not going to go along with this sort of comma, but I would say that when there seems to be a consensus on these problems and that we now need to seek solutions to these problems, then it will be quite clear that legislative changes will also have to be made. We have tried to solve this problem in the tripartite working groups before, and it is a good thing that the working groups are still considering this problem, but I would remind you that the last time that this problem occurred in the working groups, it was very much that employers said that the current legislation was perfectly good and that it was only about its application. In this situation, if we wanted to move on from this, we would now have called for a strong signal from the legislator that legislative changes are being made, which would certainly have given the Minister a more supportive back-up vis-à-vis these working groups and also given these working groups the message that the legislator is now seriously tackling these problems. It is interesting, therefore, that, in general, during this parliamentary term, a number of people, especially representatives of government parties, have felt that Parliament should play an increasingly important role in this labour law and take the initiative to change it. Well, now, in this situation, when it is important for Parliament to take initiative, let us rest on burying this in the tripartite working groups. So it would probably be good for all of us if we had the same logic in different matters. Mr President! To this end, we need more detailed implementation of the current legislation and new legislation to resolve this issue, and I hope that further progress will be made in this regard. In this respect, the good guidelines and the road map are these proposals by the Social Democrats, which are reflected in this protest, and they are easy to support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u93	Mr President! We are talking here about the citizens' initiative to ban zero contracts by law. Very interesting has been this conversation to listen to. When he listened carefully to Minister Lindström, he said quite precisely this: 'If we do not currently have rules in zero contracts' — that is, 'if' we do not currently have rules in zero contracts — 'it is very difficult for me, at least with this experience, to see how they would come without legislation. That is why I dared to say that it still requires a law," et cetera. If the Minister had studied this properly, he would know that there are many problems with the rules of the game in the zero agreements. For example, this has been said by the SAK: "Workers on a zero-hour contract are in a weak position vis-à-vis the employer. The agreement makes it possible for the employer to play, as, for example, an employee who pays attention to the problems of the workplace may find that hours are no longer available. An employer can easily get rid of an employee even if there are no grounds for dismissal. An equivalent risk of loss of hours may also arise when the employee refuses to take the hours offered — jobs are not offered again. At present, the situation in zero contracts is that the employee has all obligations without rights and the employer has all rights without obligations." This is very sad to hear. But it must be said in itself that the Minister certainly had good things to do. He said that he would be interested in what the working group would do there, and that he would be active in the sense that he would receive a report on what was going on there. He also promised to take the message to the task force. I hope that the message will then come from that direction of the SAK, where the problems of zero labour contracts are already known and recognised and that there are no agreements there. I am surprised at the fact that we are talking about zero agreements at all, for two reasons. The first reason is that no working person should speak of zero at any point. If a person works, he is worth something other than zero. If you have an employer who exercises the right to a directive and who supervises the work, then the employee is worth something other than zero. The second thing that amazes me is that even in this Chamber we are talking very seriously about zero, zero-labour contracts, when there is already a profession in this country called freelance. Freelance professionals work in the information sector and also in various creative activities, but freelancers are also able to work in such a way as to drive a freelance bus. He works at the Mynttinen bus company this morning, and he works at the Mäkinen bus company this afternoon. Among other things, it has been possible to agree on these points of competition and different points of loyalty to the employer. Freelances also have rights, of course they have obligations, but the freelancer's employer also has obligations, even though it has rights. Freelances have, among other things, their own collective agreement on fees, summer holiday pay, sick pay. That contract is called the United States Agreement. I really would have liked to have been able to tell the Minister this earlier today and perhaps to point out that perhaps you should contact the Finnish Journalist Federation for example and discuss this agreement and ask how these matters have been handled, because these matters can be dealt with. I know this very well, because I myself have been signing this agreement in the South Bank. Although it is not universally binding, it is nevertheless a national collective agreement that applies to freelance workers. This would be something that should also be dug up here and seen how these things can be dealt with in a way that works for everyone. But the minister said that'some law is required'. Now, of course, I'd be interested in what the law is. What law should be changed? How does the Minister feel about what law should be changed? Is that a contract of employment law or what is that law? It is clear that a solution must be found in this Chamber which will promote the position of an employee in the workplace and which will help the employee to be paid for the work he is doing, and that the salary will be equal to living on it. Moreover, the Freelance Agreement does not prevent an employee from doing, for example, one hour a week. Freelance can do 87 hours a week, depending on what suits him and what suits anyone who needs this freelance job. This is one solution to this issue. I hope that this too can be discussed in this spring. And I am really glad that the Minister now even has a pale idea that there may be some problem with the rules of the game. However, I would have been very pleased if the Minister had said that 'where there are currently these problems with the rules of the game' and not 'if there are currently these problems with the rules of the game'. There's a difference between what it means when you say "when" and when you say "if."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u94	Mr President! The rules of safety, predictability and working life should apply to everyone and all work. Yet we have a form of employment, a zero-hour contract that is not known in our legislation. This is therefore also a major social problem. First of all, we must thank the public for wanting to tackle these shortcomings in working life through the citizens' initiative. The committee's examination showed that these shortcomings need to be addressed by legislation. Work should bring security to the individual, but zero-hour contracts do not provide security to employees. There are many problems with zero-hour contracts that bring uncertainty to working life. These problems include, for example, the unpredictability of working hours, questions about sick pay, maternity leave, opportunities to influence their own work and to highlight possible disadvantages. I would also point out that the most common zero-hour contract work is in women-dominated sectors such as sellers, care services and health care. I would like to emphasise that almost one in three of the more than 80,000 people currently working on a zero-hour contract are working full-time. How can such contracts be zero-hour contracts? An employee may end up with a zero-hour contract in a situation where income suddenly collapses and his livelihood is jeopardised. I have received a message from a very large number of people about precisely such situations where, for example, after sick leave, the hours offered by the employer have gone to zero. I do not think that this should be possible in Finland today. As is clear from this committee's report, the problems of the zero-hour agreement have been stated in one and in a broad sense in committee — but the government does not offer a solution to this, but, in fact, a completely zero solution. Instead, the Social Democrats are committed to tackling these problems and ensuring a safe working life for all. To that end, we have built a five-point model to deal with the abuse of zero-hour contracts, and on this basis we have also lodged an objection in committee. Thus, the SDP model does not prohibit the variation of working time if it is necessary due to seasonal fluctuations or fluctuations in demand, but it does address obvious abuses of zero-hour contracts. The first point is that we believe that the law should include provisions on the range model and the establishment model. This means that hours corresponding to the actual workload must be recorded in the employment contract, e.g. 10 to 12 hours instead of the current 0 to 40 hours. If the actual amount of work is now on average 24 hours a week, the worker has the right to fix this amount as the maximum number of hours per contract of employment. If the minimum number of hours is lower, the employer is obliged to pay the underpaid number of hours to the employee. We use the range model to seek a better right and predictability for the employee in his own hours. The second point that we have put forward is that there must be a ban on abuse. This agreement could be concluded at the initiative of the employer only if there is a legitimate reason for the actual variation in the need for work. We also propose that the cooperation law should be amended so that the employer must monitor the number of employees and the basis of employment relationships with varying working hours and that the reasons for the cooperation procedures be communicated to the workers, as is currently the case with part-time workers. This will strengthen the security of workers. The third point that we are proposing is the question of the pay for sick leave. The law should provide that in contracts where working time has been agreed as a range, the pay of sick leave is primarily paid in accordance with the shift schedule. The fourth point relates to framework agreements. The law should provide that such an agreement may be concluded at the initiative of the employer only for a justified reason relating to the organisation of work. Such a reason is that work is only available on an irregular and temporary basis. And the last point has to do with the carnage. We want the Act on Unemployment Protection to be amended so that the person has a valid reason for leaving work without the nationality referred to in the Act on Unemployment Protection if work has not been available under certain conditions. With these points I would perhaps like to point out that this is a difficult whole to resolve. But on these points we have wanted to address this problem of working life and, in particular, to strengthen the state of will that has been expressed in the citizens' initiative and that is to prevent the abuse of these zero-hour contracts. I would also like to say that it is regrettable that, although all these problems were identified together, the government did not have the willingness to address these problems. Several speakers have also referred to these different working groups. I believe that, as legislators, we should set up clear frameworks for these future negotiations and that, in order to achieve its agreement, we should send a strong signal that these shortcomings need to be addressed. For the protection and security of the weaker party, stronger legislation and rules of working life are needed. And I think it is quite widely and unambiguously mentioned here. Unfortunately, it has to be concluded that the government's response to the zero-hour agreements and to the tens of thousands of people who are working on these agreements was a zero response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u95	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Tolppanen made a bit of a straight cut — it needs to be addressed a little bit. First of all, he suggested that Minister Lindström was not familiar with the problems of zero-hour contracts. Of course, Mr Tolppanen knows that he himself has used the truth at this point very sparingly. During the last parliamentary term, Mr Lindström worked very hard to correct the problems of the zero-hour contracts, and he has now continued his work as Minister. I am well aware of Minister Lindström's fact that, here in Parliament's plenary session, he left the task force he has set up with peace and room for manoeuvre, did not set out these reforms which should be carried out. Mr Tolppanen also stated that in the case of zero-hour contracts, workers only have obligations and employers only rights. But of course it must be remembered that employers have a normal obligation to pay wages for hours worked and, of course, the usual obligations relating to health and safety at work. Of course, it is true that, in many cases, the employee is obliged to take up the job when he is invited and the employer is not obliged to offer the job, and there has also been a debate today on the problem of toughness. On the other hand, the timely adjustment of the labour force will, however, contribute to the profitability of business and the possibility of hiring additional labour, which I believe is also in the interests of workers in the long term. The use of temporary agency work companies could also increase as an alternative to direct employment if zero-hour contracts were completely banned, and a partial transfer of entrepreneurial risk from the employer to the employee would also be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u96	Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u100	Mr President! Mr Lindström's words in this Chamber today, which I quoted here, have been taken directly from the paper which is always made from these sessions. So he said, "if we don't have rules for zero-hour contracts at the moment." If we don't have rules. And in addition to that, he said, "There is a law that it requires." But it does require some law. Thus, in Finnish, one law, ‘some law’. This is of great interest to me that what this law is, and I really would have liked the Minister to have known what law it requires. If we go into these lines, the Social Democrats' guidelines state quite clearly that we cannot now accept the report, because it did not clearly align itself with the need for legislation, but left open and said that problems could also be solved by better implementation of current laws, which, unfortunately, would very often mean at least changing the laws. In addition, it contains this final statement, which states that the employee's consent to conclude a zero-labour contract of the present kind is accepted — it waters down the whole criticism. The employee agrees to this because there is no other job available. It's between a tree and a bark. In addition, it is good to remember that the laws of working life are always made for the protection of the weaker party, the worker. It is essential that safety and predictability are achieved in working life. The laws of working life would never have been necessary if employers had been fair, it is so. Then you don't have to protect the weaker, you're already protected by the employer. Perhaps we should review these few numbers from this zero agreement. According to the reports, approximately 83,000 employees had a zero-hour contract in 2014. At that time it was 4 per cent of all wage and salary earners. There were 30,000 part-time students, of whom 80 per cent did not need additional income, because this was not the only income for them but is also study-social benefits, and study-social benefits prevent earning — we have an upper limit on what students earn during their working hours. On the other hand, some 21,000 employees, 68 per cent of whom were women, worked part-time but considered it their main activity, and 60 per cent of them, i.e. well over half of them, needed additional hours, which means that there was too little work available for them — as many as 12,500 people needed additional work. 24000 people worked full-time on a zero contract. They were mainly men, job workers, and 16% of them longed for and still longed for more hours, with 3500 people. That is what this is all about. And these are the figures that I would really like the Finns of Finland to look at and see the whole thing that is going on here. However, it is quite a number of people who are doing this work who are working on a zero-job contract. With a zero-job contract, there are currently over 83,000 people in loose logs. For these people, there would be much better living conditions and working conditions if, for example, the Employment Contracts Act were to be renewed in this respect and if there were clear rules of play — which could at least take a look at a little like the other eye on the United States Agreement. There are those things that need to be changed. They have already been considered. There are many things that are not worth inventing twice, such as the wheel is one, and this is also the case, that is, if a person does not have a contract of employment or a clear fixed-term contract of employment that is valid for the time being, but works otherwise — on the basis of a part-time, temporary, temporary, temporary — contract of employment — then there are rules on how to do it in such a way as to safeguard the status of an employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u101	Mr President! Just a few more points on this initiative and on the report of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities: First of all, the fact that today's working life very often comes with situations in different workplaces, that there is a momentary work that the existing workforce does not get to do in that work, and therefore this kind of flexible opportunity must be there. However, as has been said here during this debate and in the Minister's comments, this issue must be carefully investigated. Above all, during its preparation and during the work of the working group, care must be taken to ensure that the problems of unemployment security and social security are resolved fairly, so that people who work shorter shifts also have the right to unemployment protection and thus to the rights of social security — not to undermine them. In my opinion, the world has changed over the last 20 years: It is no longer a procedure that when a person starts working, he can say in a fluent Finnish language that "I probably got into that pension post now". Such a world hardly exists anymore, or if so, it is extremely rare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u104	Mr President! In this regard, it may be worth recalling that these zero-employment agreements are particularly relevant to women and that women have a significantly worse labour market position than men, and this has long-term consequences. Women age at the same rate as men and retire at some point. If they have had zero employment contracts at zero hours and zero wages, they will not receive a pension. They already know at the time when they are working under a zero contract that, if they are not poor then, if the husband still provides, if it happens as often happens that the step-wife is left alone, then at least they are poor even though they have been working their age unless the employer has any obligation to take them to work. If we talk about flexible labour markets, then flexible labour markets can also be managed in such a way that there are people who can be taken when people need them, but they all have enough work to live on. This is the basic point that should be pursued here, and not the fact that if certain people are not willing to give them jobs, but when they cannot let go, because it becomes sanctions, then let us conclude a zero-labour contract and not give them a single hour, let us see how long you can enjoy a zero-labour contract. And then, when this agreement leaves itself, does it not come after sanctions so that it snaps? By the way, there's been a huge rise in sanctions during this reign. Earlier, when they were given just over 4,000, they are now being given 17,000 a year. However, there has not been so much more jobs, and these sanctions are now snapping at us, but that is another matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u105	Mr President! I would also like to make it clear that there is no denying students, for example, a small number of hours and the work they do. And when we look at these statistics, what Mr Tolppanen raised about Statistics Finland’s research, it is true that 30,000 young students work on a zero-hour contract and most of them do not necessarily even need more hours. But the problem then comes precisely in the category of employees, where the majority are women-dominated sectors — services, sellers, care and care — and there the majority would need more hours. In this study, the full - time population of over 24,000 people has been asked if they want more hours, and they probably will not say that they would like more hours because they are already working full - time. In other words, the problem here is the employees and particularly the women-dominated sectors, which we need to find legal means to address these shortcomings so that you cannot complete a full week when your employment contract is zero, which means that your employment security is virtually zero. That's what they want to do. A lot has been said about temporary work, for example, and that is also a problem that people have wanted to solve. This is an even bigger phenomenon. I would also like to stress that the government would have every opportunity to send a stronger message to these working groups, that a solution must be found to these and these issues and that these are the disadvantages of working life that we do not accept in Finland at the moment. That is why I still hope that the government will also support the Lindström Group here, and I understand that in the Finns of Finland and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u106	Mr President! In fact, the representative above took my feet out of my mouth, so to speak, and what is really important is that there should now be a strong message that Minister Lindström — without directing and forcing the working groups that are doing their own work — could have the starting point for finding a solution rather than simply proposing solutions. That that will state would be much clearer. I would also like to say what representative said above that this citizens' bill did not want to limit the possibility for students to work randomly and to conclude zero-labour contracts. But, as I pointed out in my actual speech, we must remember now that we are in the process of making a social solution, and this issue of employment contracts is not so much pure on the public side. We should also note that we have a lot of people working in central hospitals who do not even have a contract. They are invited workers and their position will be very difficult at that stage if they refuse to be able to work. That is why the framework agreements are a much better option: in a way, they are available to the employer, but the worker also has the choice of whether to go to work or not. In this zero deal, this solution is very difficult, because we have put the box in the box, that I am ready to take additional work, which will then force you to leave in the middle of the night if the employer invites you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u107	Mr President! I will take a little more of that speech before Mrs Myllykoski, which had some good ideas. I would now like to comment on the fact that the report had very much folded about this and/or word form. However, I think it is a good thing that this working group set up by the Minister now has a great deal of room for manoeuvre, so that, if necessary, we can use more than legislative means if these problems can be resolved by other means. Mr Myllykoski has just brought up this model of framework agreements. Indeed, the legislation already in force enables at least some of these problems with zero-hour contracts to be resolved on labour market terms. We have just talked about the fact that this zero-hour agreement is largely a problem for women-dominated sectors. Well, in the job model agreed by the Trade Union and the Trade Union for Services PAM, for example, the employer and the employee first set up such a framework agreement, which sets the terms and conditions for individual gigs, and each of these upcoming gigs then forms their own fixed-term contract of employment, which is always agreed separately. In such cases, there must be a legal basis for the time-limit, and these jobs cannot be chained on an unwarranted basis. If necessary, the employee also has the right to refuse the job offered. Such a framework agreement would significantly clarify the relationship between the employer and the employee, especially when the employer does not offer work. This is indeed the solution that the current legislation makes possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u108	Yes, the question now arises as to whether there will be more low-paid work in this country or whether there will be a decent working life where wages can be made. The increase in low-wage sectors will also increase the characteristics of class society here in Finland. We must remember that low-wage labour, which is undoubtedly zero contracts, raises new challenges for social security. If you don't live on your salary, then some of the money comes from social security. It is absolutely true that the poverty of those working is real and real in Finland, including those working in the PAM sector. Social benefits, such as housing and income support, are estimated at EUR 30 million per year for those working in the retail sector. At the same time, the total net result of retail trade is EUR 334 million. Low wages contribute to the success of businesses, but cost taxpayers — you and me — as a result of the payment of social benefits. And this is from that same PAM study. Studies are always worth reading well, every page there, as they provide a great deal of information on these issues. But what is sad is that in the welfare state of Finland we make these zero-job contracts knowingly poor workers. We are disparate in this society, and apparently we want us to have two different groups who work. Of course, we still have the third group that makes a lot of money, these people like Teddy, but we are not talking about them here. Yes, in this Chamber, we must try to ensure that everyone who signs a contract of employment, whether they conclude a part-time contract or a fixed-term contract, has the amount of work to do. It's not a contract if you sign a contract,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u109	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u110	Mr President! I will bring a government proposal to the House to reform the legislation of upper secondary schools on a special educational task. The proposal proposes to clarify the provisions for the award of a specific education function to upper secondary schools. The aim is to clarify the role of a specific training role in the education system, to increase the equality and legal security of applicants for a permit. The special task of upper secondary schools is to do fine and high-quality work all over Finland. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the regional accessibility of education and the continuity of the activities of special schools. A specific training task can continue to be awarded to different teaching priorities, such as skill and art education, exercise or language teaching. The teaching emphasis of upper secondary school could also be applied to entities across the material boundaries, which would create new opportunities for developing education. In the future, some of the upper secondary schools would be granted a national development function. This would oblige education organisers to develop and disseminate teaching priorities operating models not only for upper secondary schools but also for other upper secondary schools around Finland. The task is also to promote cooperation between upper secondary school organisers and higher education institutions and other actors involved in the field of specific education. National upper secondary schools would be selected on the basis of a national assessment. The proposal also proposes to specify the provisions for the funding of a specific upper secondary school education task. In the future, all special upper secondary schools will receive increased funding to carry out the task. The costs of the various educational priorities will be taken into account when deciding on funding. Upper secondary schools with a national development mission would receive a higher contribution. The funding received by upper secondary schools is secured to the current level by providing by law the percentage of the total funding of upper secondary schools allocated annually to upper secondary schools. The central government co-financing of upper secondary school education remains unchanged as a whole, but it is divided somewhat differently between different education providers. Mr President! The presentations for the reform of the legislation of upper secondary schools are based on the unanimous proposals of the working group preparing the legislative amendments to the special education function of upper secondary schools. In the preparation of the performances, experts in upper secondary school education have been involved in the preparation of the performances, including Pro Upper Secondary School Association and the Finnish Upper Secondary School Association and so on. The consultation broadly supported the legislative proposals. The working group has produced a successful proposal in which the current overall funding can secure a regionally effective and comprehensive upper secondary school network with a special educational task. The aim is to ensure that the proposed financial change treats the providers of upper secondary school education equally and that the additional funding is allocated to all upper secondary schools carrying out a specific education task according to the calculated proportion. The objective of setting clear weighting factors is to increase equality between education and training providers. Equality between education providers and transparency in decision-making must be key objectives for the reform of the system. In granting the national development task, the national need for knowledge and education must be emphasised. In turn, regional training needs can also be taken into account in the authorisation of a specific training task. It is necessary to specify the conditions for granting authorisations and the timetable proposed in the draft legislative acts for granting new authorisations is justified. The proposal does not seek to change the number of upper secondary schools or the extent of education. The Act amending the High School Act is intended to enter into force on 1 August 2018 and the Act amending the Act on the Financing of Education and Culture Act on 1 January 2019. The Ministry of Education and Culture will launch the application procedure for permits for upper secondary school assignments in spring 2017. The national evaluation of applicants will be carried out during the spring 2017. Decisions on new authorisations for specific tasks will be made in August 2017. The legal security of students under a specific training function will be ensured by adequate transitional provisions. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u111	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks for this very important and expected change in the law. It is great that when working groups are set up to examine various areas of development and also possible uncertainties, which sometimes remain in the legislation, then these proposals and proposals of the working groups will eventually actually become legislation. In March 2015, the liquidators Atso Taipale and Kyösti Värri presented their proposals on the status of a special training task. According to the surveyors, the equality of training providers is weakened by the accumulation of permits over decades without uniform criteria and the random allocation of funding. It is wonderful that in this law these things are now clearly set out to be changed. One small flaw in beauty I noticed here, and I think it may have been quite an accident in this process. When these special schools have been evaluated, for pedagogical reasons there has also been a Peterpedagogy - oriented education, but then the high schools of Christian schools have been excluded from this. There are not many in Finland. There are less than 30 Christian schools, and three of them have high school, but they have not even been asked to give a statement on this matter. Here is the situation in terms of equality: either it is that, at the committee stage, this must be taken into account, so that the status of upper secondary schools in Christian schools is also safeguarded here, or this Peterpedagogy-oriented teaching is taken out of this list, which is one of them, but it cannot be that only one is and the other is not. So I have another wish: with these good development projects here, this percentage of state aids that private schools still have, which is only 94 per cent of the cost of normal education, would be high time, in the name of equality, to raise to the same level as the cost of other teaching. It's no cheaper to teach in private schools. This is one of those old relics left behind from the '70s to '80s. Now, perhaps it would be good to take it with two hands. Then many good things would be brought up during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u112	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 4/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-22-ps-27.u113	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Animal Protection Act to include in the Act the provisions required by European Union legislation on certain obligations of the owner or keeper of farmed animals and the qualifications of the keepers of farmed animals. At this stage, I think that this proposal as a whole is appropriate, necessary and appropriate. According to Article 5a of the bill, the The keeper of farmed animals shall also have the necessary training or other knowledge to provide appropriate care for the animals, taking into account the animal species. What, then, is this sufficient amount? The term "sufficient" must be used in this provision to provide flexibility and, on the other hand, practical experience can be considered sufficient. That is exactly what I think must be the case. For example, the Roma man has been able to deal with horses all his life and feel their ways and behaviour. If he were forced into school to be able to care for horses, it could offend his entire Roma family or culture. It is good that the common sense and the famous sense are used here. The term "knowledge" refers to the knowledge and skills needed in the care of animals. "Knowledge"is more general but sufficiently individual. Knowledge does not necessarily come by reading books, but it provides a good basis. In the end, knowledge comes when you deal with animals every day. In the proposed provision, the veterinary keeper’s eligibility criteria are linked to the animal species that are being treated and to the management of the animal species concerned in such a way that the treatment is appropriate. The animal species has a significant impact on the information and skills required of the veterinarian. It is clear that gerbil, canary or aquarium fish are treated differently from a farm animal, even though animal husbandry always means caring for the needs of the animal. The treatment involves, for example, watering, feeding, cleaning and maintenance of the establishment and meeting the basic needs of the animal, such as adequate exercise and food-seeking behaviour. It has also been stated in the explanatory memorandum of the Government’s proposal that training and qualifications may be more stringent when the specific knowledge of the carer has a decisive impact on animal welfare due to the animal species or the form in which the animals are kept. I mean, even if it's common sense, it's obvious. The manager of horses, fur animals, ducks, chickens, goats or cattle has different qualifications. When the ultimate responsibility for the animal always rests with the owner of the animal, who would put his horse in the hands of a person who does not control it? It's probably the same for other animals. However, these enhanced training and competence requirements may be relevant, for example, in a situation where the number of animals is very high in relation to the number of carers and the management of conditions at the highly mechanised establishment of the animals requires special expertise. Today, dairy farms regularly have dairy robots. Controlling them in addition to other automation is a necessity. The treatment of fur animals, for example, is not the same as that of cattle with regard to the qualification requirement. It takes different skills to manage minks and foxes alone, even if you think that fur is a fur coat. But the owner or keeper of the animals also has obligations. The proposal requires them to provide guidance and guidance on animal welfare requirements for persons employed in the care and handling of animals. I welcome the fact that this requirement is strongly in the proposal, because the ultimate responsibility for the care of animals always rests with the owner or keeper of the animals when it is assessed by the legal authority. The draft law proposes to define a farm animal. I'd like to see the perfect definition of farm animals myself. In the report also submitted to the committee, the definition of the farm animal varied depending on the legislation in question. Hopefully, in the context of the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act, this will also become clearer and we will have a uniform definition of the farm animal. Mr President! This government proposal has no direct effect on owners or keepers of farmed animals. In Finland, animal keepers are practically competent either through long practical experience or through training for younger entrepreneurs, as national agricultural subsidies are conditional on basic training in the agricultural sector. As I said earlier, this bill as a whole is proper, necessary and appropriate.
