ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u2	Mr President! In this proposal, the State is abandoning the practice of foreign travel insurance for civil servants and workers. There has also been some disregard for the Defence Forces when we send men and women to crisis management missions. This does not apply directly to them, but it applies to a large number of our officials and employees, who are now also going to more dangerous places for these postings. After all, this is a pure austerity law. This seeks annual savings of about half a million euros. The proposal states that this will also solve the problems that have arisen in order to provide insurance cover for the experts invited to us, i.e. to harmonise this insurance cover. This therefore requires legislation in order to define the conditions for compensation and the benefits for passengers in the legislation, and will therefore continue to be carried out by the State Treasury. Personally, I hope that, when the committee is consulted on this issue, it will also, at least in part, be familiar with the kriha-veteran programme that has now been put in place for crisis veterans, in which a little similar security is at stake, namely to ensure that when we send our women and men to such demanding tasks to the world, we also bear responsibility at the worst in the event of an accident, for example, for their health or for their loved ones. When I read this motion, compensation is also being raised here, for example, in the case of death and elsewhere, but I personally have experience with the people close to me that these have not always worked from the Treasury.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u3	Mr President! The Government's proposal is quite interesting in terms of content. A law is proposed to amend the travel practice of missions so that activities purchased from a private company are transferred to the State’s own activities, with savings of up to half a million euros a year. Instead of resisting and supporting ideological privatisation, this kind of attitude is to buy from the private, if it is worthwhile, or to produce itself, if it is better, it is wise political thinking. In society in general, and in the debate on social issues in particular, I would like to see a moderate approach rather than ideological slogans. The market economy is a good man, but a bad host, and it is worth unscrupulously considering whether it is more profitable to do something yourself or to produce it in private. As is seen in this proposal, the answer is far from always privatisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u4	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 21 April 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u5	Mr President! In fact, this time I am merely addressing this aspect of the procedure, which was already mentioned in the Friday plenary session. In my view, on such a big issue, which clearly affects more than the Committee on Budgets, it would be justified to adopt new positions to allow another committee to define its position. In this case, therefore, this applies to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, whose expertise it is the national parks that belong to, as well as the natural parks. I think that this has probably been more of an accident at work, that it may not have been noticed that there has not been much groundwork in the house when the committee has taken up this report and has not then consulted the Committee on the Environment. I think it is justified that we should go through this in the Council of Presidents, for example, so that the chairmen of all the committees have to think about it and then pass on a uniform approach to committee work. I hope that in the future such things will come about so that all the committees will have the opportunity to comment on the matter if it is not the subject of public attention or has not been made clear in the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u6	Mr President! I very much agree with Mr Heinäluoma on this point. The procedural issue is a matter that has already been agreed in 2011 and the deadline for the transition has been set, with an eight-year period of 32 quarterlys. Of course, I also understand the gold miners, they are able to do their work effectively for about three months a year, but still eight years, eight periods of digging, still remain. Perhaps that is the fundamental question for Parliament. What will be included in the report? Does the report deal with the government's proposal, or does it deal with matters which, in fact, go a little further away from the government's proposal, which in itself is quite worthy of support — streamlining and reducing standards and so on — that there is nothing in that respect. This proposal by the Heinäluoja that the procedures should be reviewed is to be welcomed, in my view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u7	Mr President! I have nothing to add to what has already been said in the Friday plenary. Mr Heinäluoto's idea that the Council of Presidents should look at these procedures is, in my view, very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u8	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Mining Act with regard to certain provisions on exploration and mining. The mining business always shares opinions, but there's no reason to. I think we should be very pleased that there are minerals in our soil that can be used. We have plenty of quiet and clean nature reserves and wilderness, and there will be more as the countryside clears up. Once this debate has been followed, I think we have enough nature reserves as well. We don't need any more after Hossa. Every time a nature reserve is established, the rights of local people are trampled on. This is also the case with Hossa and Lemmenjoki National Park. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already voted in favour of extending the transitional period from the eight years proposed at the time to 15 years. This means that mechanical gold mining will be allowed to continue in Lemmenjoki National Park until 2020. Then it stops, that is, the miners stop doing the legitimate business. If it were up to me, the mechanical gold mining would continue after 2025. There is no point in restricting the legitimate business unless it is a criminal activity, and that is not what it is now. Conveyors are entrepreneurs who have often put all their belongings into their business. We are now in Finland’s 100th anniversary, reducing their rights. As the representatives of Kärnä and Mustajärvi well said on Friday, it seems that not everyone who has spoken knows exactly where the Lemmenjoki is and does not know the situation in the region. The situation is good on the Lemmenjoki River and this extension of the transitional period strengthens the natural values of its region. It is also a strong part of local life forms, culture and business activities. In my opinion, the best knowledge and know-how is for the inhabitants of the region as well as for the municipality. The municipality of Inari is in favour of extending this transition period, so let's go with it. The area of the Lemmenjoki National Park is 2850 square kilometres, and a very small part of this square kilometre is dug in gold. Let the rest be for hikers and other hikers in nature. We should also understand that gold mining is linked to tourism in the Lemmenjoki River. For them, it is the same tourist attraction as here in Helsinki The Opera, Heureka, Kiasma and Music Centre, as well as the vessels of Tallinn and Sweden. When gold is mined on the river Lemmen, there will be silence and wilderness for all of us to use. Is that what we all really want? At least that's not what I want. On Friday, Mr Hoskonen said that the truth about the current situation was that "the mood is spreading throughout Finland that we should not use our natural resources, and the same applies to forestry". I think we should use the raw materials we have in a sensible way. It also provides jobs in Lapland. I want to see excavators all over Finland, not just the Ring in the Three.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u9	Mr President! Mr Kulmala, during the previous speech, expressed concern about local repression when establishing national parks, and you used the National Park to be established by Hossa as an example. In the case of Hossa, all local municipalities supported the establishment of a national park, saw the regional economic benefits. As we know, one euro invested in a national park comes back ten times as much as the regional economy. This particular issue is precisely a matter of procedure, and this procedure is at least inappropriate. The committee's report adds a porpoise which is not related to the government's proposal under discussion. If this desired change had been known, it should have been sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to be evaluated, it would have a major environmental impact. Is this really how we want Parliament to work, that if someone manages to put in a sentence that requires lawyers to interpret, then we will send out the preparatory requests for legislation? In my opinion, this is not in accordance with the dignity and manners of Parliament. I think that Mr Heinäluoma's idea that the Council of Presidents should deal with this matter is very good and worthy of support. But now that it comes to the vote, I would encourage colleagues to support Mr Hassi's proposal, which in no way alters the committee's report to the extent that it relates to the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u10	Mr President! Personally, I do not understand this criticism which is so strongly voiced about this policy. It would be rather disconcerting if a committee, when dealing with a government proposal as a mining law, noticed and found that there is something that this same legislation should correct, the committee would not take a position on it. I don't understand. It is certainly appropriate for the rules of the game to be dealt with, but I personally understand and thank the committee for having done an excellent piece of work unanimously and now, with its authority, for the transitional period to be extended on the Lemmen River. I too have little to add to the speeches I made on Friday, but I would like to remind you that the first excavator in Lemmenjoki was brought to the gold miner legend Kullervo Korhonen in 1951, which is no new phenomenon for excavators. They're not on the love river. Mr Kulmala’s excellent speech, which almost brought tears to his eyes, so good it was, clearly showed what is the size of the park: 2850 square kilometres, a huge wilderness area where only a small area is dug in gold. It's a really, really small part of it. At the same time, it is also good to remind you that if the transition period is extended, no new square centimetres will be excavated. Only those existing gold mining areas will be dug out even more closely, as the machines will get deeper into it. So once again, thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for this excellent report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u11	Mr President! You said, Mr Särnä, that no new squares will be dug. They dig deeper and have the same environmental effects as it does if it is extended. I would like to ask you a question, Mr Kärnä, when you said as a fact that no new square will be dug: If we are allowed to perform where excavations have not yet been started, does not extending the time limit then increase the likelihood that this entire deposit will be exploited? And is it possible to use it without digging any new squares?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u12	Mr President! Yes, the situation is that no new areas are being dug. There is only the exploitation of the existing mining districts that are already in operation, where the area has already been covered very carefully by a shovel. These machines are only used to dig deeper into what has been done before. So these current mining districts will be preserved. There are no new areas for new mining. Yes, the fact is exactly this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u13	Mr President! I refer to previous speeches, including those made by representatives of Heinäluoma and Kiuru in this way. Such a matter should necessarily have been dealt with in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. That is quite clear, because it is a question of nature reserves. I really know this area. This riverbed is shocking. It must be noted that the effects are not only in the part that is being dug up, but in the way that it destroys the fish stock and the livelihoods below it too. Then it must be borne in mind that this area will not be destroyed from the point of view of tourism. After that, there is also the opportunity to practice small-scale vascool washing, which is a very nice tourist hobby, and they like that kind of activity. The local inhabitants and the Sámi are also firmly opposed to this continuation. Moreover, much time will also be required for this restoration and landscaping of the area once this activity has ceased, so that it can even be put into a bearable condition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u14	Mr President! I am an alternate member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I did not have the opportunity to participate in this consultation, but I understand that there was no separate consultation on this transitional period in actual fact, and in that sense I agree with these procedural criticisms which have been put forward in this Chamber. In order not to extend this type of procedure to the various committees, which then begin to make similar changes in legislation on the bypass, which are actually related to another issue, it would certainly now be very appropriate to have this debate on the procedure. On this point I myself called a few people in the north, and they were very surprised that, when there was a transitional period, which was agreed at the time, this was a slight change in the sideline of the committee's report. In that sense, I will be supporting Mr Hassi's statement on this matter tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u15	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, it was an opportunity to follow this debate and preparation and to listen to experts. Yes, the committee did a careful job, reflecting on these ideas that have emerged here. It was simply found that the worst option is if those digging in excavators cannot kill their equipment and the machines remain standing there, the area will not be cleaned up. In fact, it was considered the most difficult from the point of view of nature and landscaping, especially if there are excavators standing there for the next 100 years or at the expense of the state they will be removed. In my view, the committee has carried out an overall analysis, which is still in line with the fact that this transitional period may not be enough to put machines out of business. Perhaps it would be worth considering that this will be a matter for us to reconsider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u16	Mr President! I can agree with what Mr Lehde said on this point. I am also a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the people of the North, which means that I know this region. On average, 25 kilos of gold is dug there, you can say. Even at the turn of the year 2009-2010, when this issue was discussed, a lot of thought was given to the question of asset protection — when substantial investments have been made, in what time they can be put to death. Another concern was that the robbery farming does not end up with too short a transition period, then there will be pressure to lift those ores at a faster pace. As far as this process is concerned, you can say that there may have been some flaws, and Mr Heinäluoma has already taken a stand on that. The gold mining of the Lemmenjoki river is part of the Lapland brand and has significant benefits for the local economy and tourism. It can be said that these environmental effects, what they have, are quite local in general. I myself am in favour of this longer transition period and I hope that this House will be more prepared for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u17	Mr President! When we started discussing this on Friday, I was really confused. This came out of the blue, and I am thinking that, as a long-term representative, I do see very great shortcomings and gaps and wonders in this procedure, because it is undoubtedly a question of what has been said many times in this Chamber, that this has been the case in committee without listening to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which is undoubtedly the nature conservation aspect of this issue. I do not consider this to be a normal procedure, let alone a good one, and I think that this criticism, which has been raised, is entirely justified. In substance, I will support this motion by Mr Hassi. All in all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such practices in this House become nothing at all but respect for the substance of the various committees and, in a way, the competence of the various committees, the possibility of consulting experts in these situations. I also think that the proposal that has been made here today, apparently by Mr Heinäluoma, that these issues should be dealt with in the Council of Presidents, is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u18	Mr President! Nothing is black and white, and there are different interests here too. There are interests of mechanical gold miners, purchase prices of machinery, depreciation times, resale values. Therefore, a political agreement has been reached in 2011 with this transitional period. Again, there were different views about whether it was four years, fifteen or eight years. They ended up somewhere, and it might be the smartest thing to live. How this matter came to my attention was the appeal of the Sámi people. They had opened this committee's report and said, among other things, in their opinion that all the waters of the national park are falling into Lake Inari and that the cleanness of the water is not guaranteed and that in many respects the fishing has ceased completely. I hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also been able to take these environmental values into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u19	Mr President! I would just like to add that the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have repeatedly stated that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has now maintained its position in 2010. It has not been mentioned that Parliament's plenary session at the time disagreed with the Economic Committee and returned to the model proposed by the government. Since the Committee's report was amended by the plenary session, it went to a large committee and then returned to the plenary session again. So this is one of the most controversial, negotiated, one of the most talked things in the current Mining Act in 2010 and 2011. As all those who have been dealing with this issue at the time will certainly remember, it was a very controversial matter at the time, and then the plenary voted in favour of the government proposal at the time, so I think that the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this procedure is all the more specific in this regard that we are trying to put an issue that is unrelated to the government proposal before us. I wonder what kind of nonsense it would be if the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in the context of some environmental legislation, tried to hide in it a phrase which is not clear in any way but which requires a lawyer to understand, something that concerns the area of responsibility of another committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u20	Mr President! It has been good to hear these different speeches. We are therefore dealing with an issue in which there is a real debate or confrontation between the environment and the economy — unfortunately, these two often have to compete with each other. It is good that views have been expressed from both sides, and they have been well presented by supporters and friends of gold mining, but environmental issues are equally important. No matter what you think about it, I think we all agree that a procedural error has taken place, and I think it is indisputable. As Mr Hassi said in the previous speech, I personally believe, in principle, that the economy in most cases is the stronger one that wins, and we should at least take the value of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy into account. At the same time, I would have asked the President whether it was the case that this matter was still being voted on in the big room, and whether it was tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u21	Mr President! There was a very good finish in the previous speech. That is what many of these issues are about, and that is precisely why we have these committees, which are familiar with various issues, that when matters are dealt with where specialist expertise is needed, the views of the Committee on Special Skills will always be taken into account. After all, this issue was already the subject of debate last Friday, and I raised these procedural problems, which have been raised on several occasions. Mr Heinäluoma made a good point about the need for further reflection within the Bureau. More information has now come to light for those of us who were not here in 2010 to deal with this, that this compromise has come about after a very complicated negotiation result. It is not common in this House today for things to go to a large committee. They do indeed go where the views of the plenary and the committee differ. In other words, there has been a very tough twist about the compromise that has been reached in this House. This, too, underscores the fact that it is either unintentionally or in part deliberately intended to bring this matter to the fore. Nor do I think it is justified when a compromise has been reached in 2010 on a transitional period of 9 years, that somehow we would call for a lack of time to prepare for the achievement of a natural balance and the elimination of the destruction of machinery in that area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u22	Mr President! I understand that this compromise, which is perhaps being changed, is happening particularly to the Group of the Greens, because I understand that, when it was drawn up, the Greens threatened to turn this into a government issue, and that was why it had to be corrected and changed. And now, of course, the situation is that the Greens are in the opposition. I personally see that, at this stage, with the power of the Parliament, the matter can be corrected if it is considered that the solution negotiated at that time is not a good one. And yes, there is strong evidence and strong evidence that, if that transition period is not extended, it is worse for the environment than for the transition period now to be extended. I would also like to point out that these conditions for environmental permits in the regions have been constantly tightened up by the Ely Centre, where gold miners are responsible for their activities. The river of love cannot be represented as a sewer of any kind, but is a clean, clear river of Lapland, where things are in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u23	Värderade Talman! Just as has often been said here, the transition period is in no way new information. Eight years is a long time, and it cannot be that if you do not act responsibly unless you take action within this known time, then more time will be allowed. After all, it's an unbelievably bad practice. It was eight years ago, even though it was the four. Eight years was already an extension, and now we want to extend this eight years again to fifteen. After all, this is like endless vatulation, which I do not think is worthy of this institution. Regarding the economic effects, the Sámi scaffolders say that this has had effects not only on the river itself but also on Lake Inari. There the fishing industry has suffered from it, as has tourism with it. Compared with tourism and gold mining as a business or through income generated for the economy, it is evident that tourism is more important than that. In 2011, it was announced that this matter has now been finally closed, but then after a few years the vatout will continue, and it is wanted to change the matter that has already been decided through such a very special strain. It seems to me that this is an extraordinary activity and bad legislation in any measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u24	Mr President! Without commenting on this debate, I would like to remind Mr Lehde that mining is a business where the costs of closing the mine are normally foreseen. It is incomprehensible that in the case of mechanical excavating such an option would not be in place. I do not remember the point in the Mining Act where this matter has been dealt with. Every mine currently operating in Finland must have a post-care allowance reserved so that the area can be landscaped and renovated. It would be strange if we wanted more time at this point, and there were no guarantees as to how they would happen. After all, why would that entrepreneur take away those machines even if he still had five years to carry out the business? I personally believe that there has been a mistake at that point when this issue was last dealt with, and then these security issues and others should have been taken into account. The most important thing is the protection of property and the fact that the law does not in a way condemn the entrepreneur to lose his property. I can see the other side. But at this point the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should have opened the matter even more, not just from this point of view, and then considered it. In my opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy could take this as a matter of its own and make proposals to the government through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u25	Mr President! In this respect, I believe that Mr Kärnä has just given an excellent defence of why this should have been brought to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy: if it is, and if it is, of environmental importance, then the Committee on the Environment is the place where it is being dealt with. However, the good thing about this is that, if this were to happen now, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, this would result in measures being taken by the government to re-examine the matter — which, of course, has not been announced in any church, but if that were to happen — then, of course, it will come to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy at the latest. In this case, however, I would say that it is not advisable to automatically assume that all government parties are of the opinion that transitional periods should be extended. Yes, it is definitely a matter which, first of all, has been outlined in the past and, secondly, must be considered in depth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u26	Mr President! Mr Multala has just said very well that I, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, would not be concerned about whether you would not be able to express your views. If and, hopefully, the government makes a proposal for this, then at this stage the Committee on the Environment will also consider the matter and you will certainly be able to present those views at that stage, which is of course an important point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u27	Mr President! If this practice now introduced by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy becomes more common in Parliament, then in the future all committees will be able to take a position on just about anything — I look forward to seeing what kind of proposals the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, for example, is beginning to make. But most of all in this debate I am perplexed by the claims that the environmental impact of mechanical gold mining would be limited and that mechanical mining would even attract tourists and hikers to the area. Of course, people have a very different view of what is beautiful and peace of nature, but this brush dug in the Lemmenjoki River may be suitable only for enduro enthusiasts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u28	Mr President! When we talk about the procedure, it is not about this content of an individual proposal. No matter what anyone thinks of mechanized gold mining, I am truly amazed that not all representatives see this problem of procedure. These parliamentary policies and common rules of play are for all of us, regardless of the government-opposition structure, and above all they exist for high-quality legislation. This procedure must be able to be looked at regardless of the content of the matter and, if so, it cannot fail to see this problem. If the content of this proposal is to be discussed, it can also be done, but then it must be done in accordance with procedures and procedures, and that means that the committees whose remit the proposal has implications for, examines and pronounces on it. And the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection would have had every opportunity to do this: along the way when they drew up the report, when they saw that they were now presenting something which did not relate to the government's proposal, which goes to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, they could have asked the Committee on the Environment for an opinion at any time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u29	Mr President! This investment, which is made by an individual family or entrepreneur, what is the repayment period and what is the protection of trust in Finland. If we compare, for example, with the feed-in tariff for wind power, we cannot go into it here under Finnish law, since the feed-in tariff has been promised by agreement. This is about a few ten entrepreneurs whose lives are in such a way that if they don't get away with this, they'll go bankrupt alone. [Department :Actually! ] These options were considered in the committee and, as has been said here, the last time this issue was discussed, the Greens threatened to leave the government because the compromise period was so short that it was practically too short to allow these people to survive. But if you want to cause a few dozen families, let me say, a lifetime of bankruptcy, that's easy. However, I am sure that this issue will be asked many times more about whether it is better for entrepreneurs to manage this landscaping with profitable business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u30	Mr President! Since the matter is not in the Government Programme, there will be no amendment to the Mining Act in this respect during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u31	Mr President! First of all, I have to say that gold mining is a meaningful job, whether it's just a hand game or a machine. The mechanization of gold mining in Lapland has focused on just Lemmenjoki, Tankavaara and the areas of the War River, and this is a long history of gold mining. But at least in my opinion I have been informed that gold miners must take the premium or take the permissions from the environmental administration, and this is a guarantee that when the gold mines in their time they will also landscape them. And when it is known that The Lemmenjoki is a national park, about 2,900 square miles [2,900 sq km], and it is a small one where gold is dug, so everyone should go to Lapland and go around. There is no matter how much aroma and desert there is, there is no point talking about putting this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Yes, this is part of the reason that it's there. That is why over 8,000 people visit the River of Love because they want to watch this special hobby, the gold wash. Let them dig on the machines now, even to the front, and make no trouble for them. Yes, there is a wilderness for everyone there, and nature has not been broken. At least I know the countless, hundreds of thousands of acres there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u32	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 5/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u33	Mr President! With the motion, the land-settlement Act will be repealed. The repeal leaves the construction of common pastures and keeping animals in common pastures to voluntary agreements. The damage caused by domestic animals falls within the scope of general liability law. One problem will continue to be that the damage will be reimbursed more than a year after it has been caused if Parliament has understood to provide sufficient money for it in the budget. The proposal harmonises the law on damages outside the reindeer husbandry area. The obligation of the Compensation Act to compensate for the damage is applicable both to the damage caused intentionally and to the damage caused to the other person. I believe that the same law on damages should also apply in the reindeer husbandry area. I hope that Parliament will take a clear position in the future on the need to amend the reindeer husbandry law. Road safety, the protection of domestic peace and the avoidance of damage are important issues for all, without forgetting agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u34	Mr President! The Reindeer Management Act has quite well defined these reindeer damage cases, but the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has appointed a working group to investigate possible problems, particularly in the southern reindeer husbandry area, due to the grazing of these reindeer, when reindeer travel freely across the reindeer husbandry area. Is the present law going to work? As far as I am concerned, the current law is effective, but there is a small amount of fine-tuning of practices in it. I do not think that anything like compensation law is meant to be done. But let's see what kind of negotiations can then be made. I certainly hope, however, that we will be able to resolve these problems, because there have been overdoings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u35	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 5/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Hassi, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u36	Mr President! We were just discussing the Lemmenjoki National Park. Now we're talking about Hossa National Park. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection fully agreed on this point. It is a happy thing that we can decide on the establishment of Finland's 100th anniversary national park, and I feel very honoured that I have been involved in this decision-making process. It is a park located in the municipalities of Suomussalmi, Kuusamo and Taivalkoski. The national park will have an area of about 11,000 hectares and has ridge, water and forest nature, the most representative part of the Hossa complex, which is currently mainly a state camping area. The Hossa region fulfils the general and specific conditions for the establishment of a national park in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act. It is also required of Finland’s 100th anniversary national park that it is accompanied by significant historical events related to independence and the preservation of our independence. This too will happen in Hossa, and in addition to that, the area is also one of the oldest prehistoric settlements in our country. The happy thing is, too, that the idea of setting up the Hossa National Park comes from the initiative of the municipality of Suomussalmi and the project has strong local support behind it — and it was supported in the form that the government proposes it. Finnish national parks all meet the criteria for the second category protected by the International Nature Conservation Organisation (IUCN), which means the national park in international language. IUCN considers that areas which do not meet these international criteria should not be referred to as a national park. We can be proud of the fact that the Finnish national parks meet them, so in a way the Finnish national park brand is a quality product, and what is meant by the national park in Finland is also fully established. Of course, the fact that local populations and municipalities support and have been proactive is not only about nature conservation, but also about the fact that, according to experience, national parks are an important attraction for tourism at both national and international level. National park status guarantees a tourism framework on which long-term business activities can be created. According to reports from Metsähallitus — as Mr Modig, for example, pointed out earlier in the debate — the euro, which is used in national parks for camping services and nature centres, produces an average of EUR 10 back to the local economy. In such a national park as Hossa, which is located in tourist areas, this efficiency may be even higher. Metsähallitus has also brought to the attention of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that foreign tourists are thinking about travelling to Finland in the online search for what they are doing, the "protected area" or "protected areas" is the biggest thing foreign tourists ask. Lonely Planet, which is probably publishing travel guides known to most of us, has chosen Finland as the third best destination for this year, and one reason for this is that we are setting up Hossa's new national park. The objective of the municipality of Suomussalmi is to double the regional economic impact of tourism and the number of visitors by 2025. But as it should already be clear to everyone about the designation 'national park', conservation is a priority in national parks and other activities must be adapted in such a way that this objective of protection is not compromised. The exceptions that are made to this must also comply with national parks regulations. As far as the Hossa National Park is concerned, there has been a debate on hunting in particular, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is proposing an amendment to the Government's proposal, a change which in practice would mean that the current hunting practice would be extended. However, the Committee on the Environment notes that hunting is, in principle, prohibited in national parks under Article 13 of the Nature Conservation Act. However, we have a general exception that municipal hunting rights are taken into account when national parks are established in the so-called free hunting right area of Article 8 of the Hunting Act and, in keeping with this, the regulations of the new national parks established in Northern Finland safeguard the preservation of local rights. In other words, people living in Suomussalm, Kuusamo or Taivalkoski have the right to continue hunting in their own municipality in the national park area. In addition, the shareholders of the Paliskunta in the park, regardless of their municipality of residence, are entitled under the Nature Conservation Act to the removal of predators. In addition, Kuusamo's joint forest shareholder has the right to hunt terrible In the areas of the national park in the municipality of Kuusamo. If the right to hunt were extended as proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Hossa could no longer be regarded as an area meeting these criteria of the international nature conservation organisation for what can be called a national park internationally. However, this area, which is becoming a national park in Hossa, accounts for only 3 per cent of Metsähallitus' current permit hunting area in the municipality of Suomussalmi. So even if the hunting right for foreign residents is abolished, it only applies to 3% of the permit hunting area of the municipality of Suomussalmi, 97 per cent remains. In addition, there are other areas nearby where even out-of-towners can obtain a hunting permit. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection therefore proposes that the Government's proposal on hunting be retained as it stands, except in the case of predators. The committee also proposes that, in view of the safety of visitors to the national park, an expert appointed by the Finnish Game Centre may be granted an exemption to participate in the removal of the wild beast at the initiative of Metsähallitus when special expertise is needed. There is also such fine-tuning in fishing, to which I am not going to go any further, which is intended to find a compromise between the local fishing rights and the continuation of tradition, on the one hand, and the general nature conservation objectives of the national park, on the other. All in all, the Committee on the Environment considers that these general and specific conditions of the National Park under the Nature Conservation Act are met for the Hossa National Park and that the exceptions to hunting and fishing are considered and sufficiently limited so that, if a new national park is established as proposed by the Environment Committee, it meets the international criteria. In other words, the brand of the Finnish National Park will remain a valuable reliable brand. When we are always discussing the economy, I would like to mention that the Committee on the Environment also stresses the economic importance of the fact that the national park brand is reliable, because that is precisely the basis of the fact that national parks are interesting tourist destinations, attractive destinations for both domestic and foreign tourists.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u37	Mr President! Finland celebrates its 100th anniversary this year. It is great that we can give our independent country a great gift, a new national park, this year. The ultimate goal of the National Park is to protect the natural values of the area. This is an important task which is also enshrined in our legislation, and that is something that we should also respect here in Parliament. In the case of national parks, the Nature Conservation Act sets out the conditions under which derogations from the precautionary measures can be made. Mr President! A new national park has long been needed in the Kainuu region. The Hossa region is a popular recreational and tourist destination. The National Park established in the Hossa region complements the Kainuu National Park network, as there is currently only one national park in the area. The area has 3500 years of colour rock paintings and ice age tracks are clearly visible. The oldest residences in the region are nearly 10,000 years old. National parks play a major role in the regional economy. The region's reputation, attraction and appreciation are increasing. At its best, the National Park is a attraction that brings tourists around the world to admire Finnish nature. I have been able to follow closely the development of one national park, Sipoonkorkko National Park. I live right next door. That is why I should like to stress here too that, after the establishment of national parks, sufficient resources must also be made available for the maintenance of the national park and, for example, for the identification of routes. In this context, I have heard from experts that this is happening. Another thing you could pay attention to in Finnish national parks, is that we have quite a fragmented style here to make and show visitors our national parks in the form of signs. For example, we could take the example of New Zealand, where it has been handled in a first-class way. Nature tourism is also very popular there, but at the same time it has been able to take care of nature’s carrying capacity very well. Mr President! Different exceptions to, for example, protective measures must not become the main rules. On the contrary, there must always be sufficient justification for the derogation. In the case of Hossa, the committee's position is that the derogation will be made in order to preserve local hunting rights in the region. The committee also added, as Mr Hassi's speech indicated, the authorisation to remove large-scale predators, if specific expertise is needed, from the national park area. There is no justification for extending the right to hunt to people from out-of-town areas, as this is in itself an exception to the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. The Hossa visitor survey, carried out between 2011 and 2012, has revealed that only about 1% of the visitors have come to the area because of hunting, and, secondly, only about 3% of the hunting grounds in the whole region are now leaving with the establishment of a national park. Mr President! It is important to ensure that when drawing up a management and management plan for the area, it is also ensured that the nature is not burdened more than is necessary. The increase in the number of visitors will already set nature's carrying capacity at a different starting point than before. It is important for projects such as this to involve strong support from local actors, and it is great that the locals have taken ownership of the project and stand behind the establishment of the national park. This is the whole project of the people, and we will do it in the spirit of the theme of the centenary year together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u38	Mr President! The chairman of our committee gave a good presentation in which, in fact, all aspects were raised. I personally think it is important that the committee's report was unanimous. The other option in the event of such a festive year’s branding project would have given a rather strange signal. The opening ceremony will take place on 17 June, and the President of the Republic, Niinistö, also respects the opening of the park with his presence, as well as the Environment Committee. Local support is important for these national park projects, and in this case the initiative has come from the municipality and entrepreneurs and local residents are behind it. These projects, which have little to do with fishing or hunting, may always give rise to different perspectives and a little friction. In this case, we were doing the National Park Act, and that is why the Nature Conservation Act and the Hunting Act were laws that were not open and whose content we could not influence in this context, and then there was the small difference between the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment. I understand the role of another committee, their role is different from that of the Environment Committee. The national park as a whole is well over 11,000 hectares — if taken in kilometres, it is about 10.5 kilometres in its deck if it is put in square shape — i.e. a very large area of this There's no Hossa, but it's even more gorgeous and valuable than the 40th National Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u39	Mr President! It is proposed that the Act on Hossa National Park be enacted. Originally, this initiative to establish a national park came from the local population already in 2012. They wanted the forests and other nature in Hossa to be protected but still preserved in traditional, unaltered natural uses such as fishing, hunting, berry picking, reindeer husbandry and hiking. I believe that this original objective should be respected. In addition to local residents, Hossa's permit area is an important hunting destination for hunters from other parts of Finland, many of which have taken advantage of hunting opportunities in the area for decades. Allowing small game hunting for out-of-town residents would also increase the use of accommodation capacity in the area late in the autumn. This performance limits the hunting of small game to persons born in the national park but no longer living there. The limitation of small game hunting to local residents alone is in no way justified. Let me briefly give you an example of someone who could no longer hunt in their own countries. The person was born in the Hossa National Park area in 1950 and hunted small game in the area as soon as possible. He's been the head of a hunting club for the past 30 years. One year ago, he had to move to Kajaani — the neighbor of Mr Korhonen — to move after work, away from his village. He has also invested in hunting small game by having his own kennel, where he breeds and breeds hunting dogs. He goes hunting every weekend at his place of residence and hunts at the same time. With this new law, he can no longer even buy hunting permits separately in areas where he has been allowed to hunt for years. Generally speaking, only one third of those born in the Hossa region and who have acquired the first hunting card there still live in the Hossa region. This is very important. Mr President! Now that Finland is 100 years old, as we have heard many times today, and it is the anniversary of each of us, I ask: Is this the right thing to do? Do we need to limit it, or would it be necessary to allow hunting? If we limit hunting or fishing, Hossa will be the last natural park in Finland. We have enough of these restricted areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u40	Mr President! However, I would now like to point out that 97% of the current permit hunting area of Metsähallitus in the municipality of Suomussalmi remains an area where the residents of the out-of-town areas can also obtain a hunting permit. And as far as the wilderness hunting grounds are concerned, the Habitat 2000 area of the Evil World, the Kylmäluoma hiking area and the Kalevalapuisto area are state areas where hunting can continue and which are quite wilderness areas. As I said in my presentation to the chairman of the committee, these hunting restrictions result from the fact that the primary role of the national park is nature conservation, and if we do not comply with these criteria, then international national park status will no longer be covered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u41	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has chosen its line in its report. It has chosen a line where hunting is allowed in the national park. I appreciate this line in the committee's report. But what I cannot understand is that you are going, as it were, to classify citizens as being unequal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u44	Mr President! I think it is important that hunting is allowed for local residents in the park area and that the rights of local residents in areas where local residents enjoy a free hunting right are taken care of, but I do see that this authorisation to hunt permits could have set a precedent for Hossa Park by creating new business opportunities and opportunities for entrepreneurs to develop their activities. This reference by Mr Hassi to the fact that we would lose some status if hunting were allowed. I would urge you to take a look at Yellowstone National Park, for example, at how you do it, how you do it in submerged national parks. There, roads have been built through them, it is possible to move by vehicles, and when you pay enough, you can get into snowmobiles. Still, they're national parks. Hunting opportunities and fishing opportunities are also secured in certain areas of these parks. However, I think it would be justified for Finland to consider how to improve the efficiency of the use of our parks and to increase the number of different types of hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u45	Mr President! First of all, it is really great and great that we got this kind of Hossa-style national park, and I certainly would not have wished that we needed some negative issues to discuss in this context. But we are talking about a completely different issue which was being used here as an instrument, namely the rights of the locals. This hunting court is, after all, a question of what is the right of the locals. As a Lapp, I know how important, the important thing is that there are some local rights, because there are no other services in our region — these cultural services and many others in which we lose jobs from local people, and everything else — that is, they are a compensation to local people for living and being there. And I really feel that if this had been the case, this would have had a major impact on many other places.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u46	Mr President! We have a wide range of areas in Finland. We have hiking areas, we have different parks – they certainly can develop these different business opportunities. As has already been mentioned here, 1% of Hossa’s visitors have come there because they may have been hunting there. These services of Hossa may well be used, for example, accommodation services, other restaurant services, including in areas outside it, for example to hunt for those who come. As has already been mentioned, the national park area is relatively small, and it is important that it be considered as a national park according to the criteria that have been launched internationally. We really also have very different areas in that area where we can:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u47	Mr President! Here, in previous speeches about the Lemmenjoki National Park, it was said that whenever national parks were established, local rights and local rights were oppressed. Now we are giving the locals the right to hunt, and now we are saying that others are being oppressed, that people are being put on an unequal footing. Then try to make it work. So the National Park is a brand and an international one. When people were wondering what harm it would be to change practices, I am forced to quote you from the committee's report: 'The committee notes that the Finnish national park network has been developed for a long time, as in other European countries, in line with the IUCN's classification of protected areas. National parks are defined in accordance with IUCN Reserve Class II as protected areas whose management focuses on the protection of ecosystems and the safeguarding of recreational use. According to the recommendations, hunting that is not related to the original culture protected in the national park is generally considered to be incompatible with the integrity of the national park, and it is not recommended that such an area be referred to as the national park."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u48	Mr President! I think there are two reports here, not just at national level, but at international level. The first is that rights can be trampled on if they concern only 3% of rights. That's an interesting point of view. Another piece of international news is that the Committee on the Environment believes that it is appropriate for the nature of the national park and the purpose of its establishment to be able to hunt there for what happens without making a declaration, without making a catch report. I can't understand that. And Mrs. Majala is now making a mess of Section 8 of the Hunting Act. the rights of the Member States. No one's ever been here to take them away, and no one's ever been there to play them. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has rightly suggested, has advised you in its opinion on how to organise hunting, and it is in favour of the responsibility of Metsähallitus to arrange for where to be hunted, when to hunt, who to hunt, and if the purpose of the national park so requires, there will be no hunting at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u49	I would also like to give the following answers: Mrs Maijala, Mr Hassi and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u50	Mr President! In 2010, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs held a debate on whether locals can be granted different rights than others in the field of hunting, and it has been said that this is possible. Section 8 of the Hunting Act says in that way that the municipalities of Lapland, Kainuu and Suomussalmi, Kuusamo and Taivalkoski have the right to hunt on state land. This is a right for the locals, and it will then be very important for the locals, but that is precisely what this is all about, that is to say, to turn this section into a second action. In other words, given only that right and that right only to the locals, it is precisely this section that is at issue, and I am pleased that we were able to stick to this important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u51	Mr President! As Mrs Maijala has already said, the Constitutional Committee has explained in 2010 that this is in line with the rights guaranteed by the Finnish Constitution, that locals, unlike other locals, have hunting rights in national parks in the northernmost part of Finland. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that this is in line with the Finnish Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u52	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u53	Mr President! It is great that the Hossa National Park Act has now reached this stage. As has been said many times here, we are setting up a magnificent Hossa National Park to celebrate Finland’s 100th anniversary in Suomussalmi, Kuusamo and To state countries located in the municipalities of Taivalkoski and to state waters located in the park of Suomussalm and Taivalkoski. The park will be established at the initiative of the municipality of Suomussalmi and, as the report also states, there has been strong local support for the project. Article 1 of the draft law provides that the park is to be established for the protection and management of the natural landscape and its cultural strata of long-term and continuous coexistence between man and nature, as well as for general recreational and hiking activities and nature activities. Indeed, the law has been strongly prepared in interaction with local residents and entrepreneurs and representatives of municipalities. It has been a pleasure to follow this process. A sentence has been repeated several times during the preparation: When something new is received, something old must be abandoned. The new national park must now be a great new national park, the national park status known and appreciated by international tourists. One loss for a group of outdoor enthusiasts is changes in hunting. Representative Kulmala gave one very strong example of this. In the Hossa National Park area, hunting has been practiced forever. The paintings of the colored cliffs tell hunting stories from 3,000 to 400 years ago. They reflect the success and gratitude shown after a successful fishing trip to the afterlife. It was about food and survival under harsh conditions. The area presented as a national park comprises approximately 3% of Metsähallitus' permit hunting area in the municipality of Suomussalmi. The permit area for small game in Hossa is 68,390 hectares. In relation to this total area, the Hossa National Park area, which is included in the permit area, amounts to about 1,100 hectares, represents about 15 per cent, so I understand that hunting activities in the same areas still have state hunting grounds. Hunters will be able to take advantage of the development of tourism services in the Hossa region in the future, so the new national park will improve the situation of hunting tourism in Upper Kauinuu. The number of hunting enthusiasts of out-of-town residents has decreased in the permit area. According to information received from Metsähallitus, the volumes of marketing authorisations in the Hossa area during the period 2013-2016 have unfortunately decreased. So the hunting hobby is getting smaller. The municipality of Suomussalmi in its opinion to the Ministry of the Environment has stated that it is the national park that has a small impact on hunting tourism. I understand the importance of traditional knowledge and certain old-fashioned hunting grounds that go from one generation to the next. However, I note that there are salomas suitable for hunting in the area and there is also room for hunting activities outside the park. People living in Suomussalmi, Taivalkoski and Kuusamo maintain the right to hunt in their municipality of residence, as well as the right of Kuusamo joint forest shareholders to hunt on the terrible side of Kuusamo municipality in the national park area. The areas are really not very wide. Also, hunting clubs bordering on the Suomussalmi park can still hunt deer in the club's moose gangs. The solutions adopted for fisheries are compromises, as the report also states. The inhabitants of the villages around the National Park will have a reasonable chance of fishing for fishing gears in the future, but it must be said that significant lakes will be excluded from fishing gears and, of course, this is not always pleasing to the fisherman. The management and use plan following the establishment of the park must ensure that the things promised to the operators in the region are actually realised. Reindeer treatment should continue to be possible without difficulty, The cruel-Olky entrepreneur must be able to develop his activities and serve his customers, as the company has been doing for six decades, and the partners in the joint waters of Kuusamo must continue to fish in their own waters without problems. Hossa has a great national park that increases the visibility, international attraction and appreciation of the area. They're expecting new visitors to the area. I believe that, above all, this will bring us a lot of summer travelers next summer. Public access to the park, however, is a challenge. It may come as a surprise to tourists living in and used to good public connections that a bus does not travel, as is customary at home, even every day. Kontionmäki railway station is 170 km from Hossa and Kuusamo airport, near the park, is 70 km from the park. I therefore hope that, in cooperation with the airline, the airport will be better served by companies in the region and by tourists interested in destinations in the region. I thank the committees and all those who have prepared the law for their commendable work. This work has been done together according to the theme of the centenary year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u54	Mr President! It is really great and great that we got Hossa National Park in honor of 100-year-old Finland. I was able to be involved in this process from the start, and I am really glad that we now have this result and have a pretty good law on it. We got a good law around it. In the '90s, I went to the Hossa area for the first time, and I was already in love with that area. I am indeed a person who lives in the north and in the middle of the protected area itself, but when I saw that area, I said that there is otherwise a great area. It is indeed the most authentic Kainuu, at least in my eyes. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection discussed this very much. We also took the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry very seriously, and we discussed it very much. Hunting and fishing are part of the local culture, and it was important that they also remained in the activities of this area, so that the Hossa area remains as it has been until now; Article 8 of the Hunting Act, of which we have just mentioned, says that the hunting right in the national parks is only meant for local people. If we had started to change it, then we should have also dealt with the Nature Conservation Act, and obviously we would have needed a new discussion of the Constitutional Committee and many other things before this matter was brought to a close and the whole thing was dealt with. In my opinion, it is very important and appreciated that we adhered to this basic principle, that the right to hunt in a national park belongs only to the locals. I think it is very important that there are at least some specific rights for the locals. We in the outermost regions do not have much of those special rights anymore. But now the law of the municipality of residence: it says whether you can hunt in the area of that place. Last week, I submitted a bill of law under Section 8 of the Hunting Act. According to the fact that a person should sign the last day of the previous year It has now come to the point that a very large number of people have moved their books to Savukoski just before the start of the hunting season, for example, and have hunted as a local person in the UK National Park, and since the end of the hunting period they have changed their books back and have not left a cent in the local area and have undermined this local right to hunt in that area. That is why I think it is a very bad thing that there has been a huge increase in hunting since then, and now, if this law on the municipality of residence continues to be abused, then what really happens is that it is unregulated in that area. The locals do appreciate and respect it, so they do not hunt very much and they do not hunt beyond what they can hunt there. For example, hunting times can be regulated very carefully so as not to overhunt in that area. There was also a great deal of discussion on the subject in the fisheries sector. It happened that the locals lost some opportunities to fish in certain lakes where they are used to fishing, but, as has been the case in the past, building a national park is always a compromise, so not everyone can be the winners. In the national parks, we still have a lot of work to do on that front. In North Karelia, among other things, I mean, South Karelia, Karelia, there are no national parks there, so we should think that there are...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u57	Mr President! Hossa National Park is the leading project of Finnish Prime Minister Juha Sipilä. It is also a celebration of Finland’s 100-year history and a national park. In Hossa, in particular, there are fine natural and cultural values that were in favour of this choice, and the role of Suomussalmi in the process of independence is large and large. This is a joint project between three municipalities. The municipalities of Suomussalmi, Kuusamo and Taivalkoski have been very cooperative and able to establish this national park. There are 39 national parks in Finland, and the total income and employment impact of the parks is hundreds of millions of euros. This Hossa National Park certainly has a great combination of conservation of nature and cultural heritage. The National Park provides for the inclusion of the most representative part of the state-owned Natura 2000 sites of Hossa and Moilasenvaara, which are in fact an area in which much of the pine-intensive and quite rough areas are located, but the upper slopes of the hazards have spruces and chords — a very special area. Hossa is a meeting place for three water routes, which means that there are plenty of streams in the area. There are about 130 lakes and ponds. The waters are rough and bright, except for dark salt. The ice age tracks are still clearly visible in Hossa. There is a large formation of several ridges through the area, which includes sloping and narrower. The Hossa region is an old wilderness with rock paintings, deer traps and old crevices used in fishing. The rock paintings of the colored rock are at least 3,500 years old, and the oldest residences found in the area are nearly 10,000 years old. So it is a historic but very rich and diverse area and nature. The demarcation of the National Park has been made on the terms of hunting and fishing. The area is therefore limited in such a way as to exclude these very large areas of hunting and fishing from this large area. Reindeer management must be possible, as has been the case so far in this area, and so can be done. As far as hunting is concerned, I think that the solution that we reached together in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is in the best interests of this region of Hossa. We will ensure that, according to Article 8 of the Hunting Act, local residents are still able to hunt and that this right remains, but it is limited in certain respects, which makes it reasonable. Hossa National Park has already received significant funding, i.e. EUR 2.5 million has already been given in advance to this national park area, so to speak, and Hossa National Park has already been given the opportunity to open and introduce for us this year, and it is already well-refurbished and set up for campfire and camping sites, for example. The maintenance costs of Hossa National Park will be approximately EUR 240000 per year and the total employment impact will be 29 person-years. It is important that we get a new national park for these three municipalities, Suomussalmi, Kuusamo and Taivalkoski, but it is especially great for Finns in the network of hiking and national park sites, and I hope that this area will become a very good destination for hiking and tourism outside our borders as well. The tourist flows to both Eastern and Northern Finland are expected at the end of this holiday decision at Hossa National Park.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u58	Mr President! I too, on behalf of the Social Democrats, would like to say that we are very pleased that we have a new, high-quality national park in Finland after the adoption of this law, and also that, in a largely very good spirit, we have been able to support the national park, which has left the region at the initiative of the people, here in Parliament. There are situations in memory that sometimes these are not so harmonious and unanimous. Even when we now have a question about the park that was established in honour of Finland’s 100th anniversary, it was extremely important that we found a common note in the committee on how to move this matter forward. As has already been established here, people come to the national park precisely because of its natural values, and that is why we must ensure that the international criteria that exist for national parks are always met in Finnish national parks. When there was some confusion as to whether there were national parks in North Karelia, let me tell you that there is Koli National Park and there was quite a lively discussion about it at the time. There are Patvinsuo National Park, Petkeljärvi National Park, wonderful areas, as well as Ruuna and then Kolvananuuro. There is also a natural park there, Koivusuo National Park. I went to the Hossa area for the first time when I was 11 years old, and I was totally in love with that place. Since then, I have also been camping in both natural and national parks in North Karelia very much. I understand very well why people come to Finland, what tourists want, when they come here as a primary criterion, where there are national parks and what kind of national parks there are. When there is concern that access to the area is not always easy, I agree that we must ensure that public transport also makes it possible to reach the national park area, but then the national park itself must ensure that there are marked routes, there are sufficient areas and other services suitable for camping, so that the natural values for which these national parks have been designated are also safeguarded. Indeed, it is excellent to have a national park in the Hossa area. Natural values have come up on many occasions in this regard. In my opinion, too, when these magnificent areas of great natural value exist elsewhere than in the area now designated as a national park in accordance with this law, it is also very open-minded to wonder whether there will be areas that can be connected to this area in the future and also the interaction between this national park area and other good areas of natural value, the activities that can be carried out in these areas and the services that are provided to visitors in the area. The issue of hunting rights for out-of-towners has now arisen. Indeed, it is good to put it in the frame that at the moment 1% of those who come to that region are coming because of hunting, that is to say 99% for other reasons. When there are really a lot of areas that are suitable for hunting around, consider this park area to be such that it also actually fulfills all these international classifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u59	Mr President! This is really great that a 100-year-old Finland is celebrated and respected by setting up Hossa National Park in Kainuu in magnificent landscapes. Hossa is an excellent choice in terms of nature, cultural strata and landscape. This national park has strong support from the locals. All the municipalities in the region are in favour of this. After all, the Committee on the Environment visited Hossa last year and we met with operators from the region, including those from nature and tourism, and there was such a positive and enthusiastic atmosphere in these meetings and discussions, where the national park was clearly seen as a project that makes the region much positive. The number of visitors is, as in all national parks, also in Hossa before the national park has been established, and probably the local municipalities also saw this, because, as has been said here, Metsähallitus has calculated that the euro invested in national parks will come back up to ten times as much. In this case it can be even bigger, so the impact of this on the local economy is very positive. There has been a lot of talk about hunting, but I would just like to say that 1% of visitors in Hossa have reported their arrival as the cause of hunting, so it is not the greatest attraction, nor is it the one that enables local economies to have these opportunities. It is a pleasure and an honour to be involved in making this decision when the 40th National Park is established in Finland. That is exactly how we can and must celebrate our independence. Here we can celebrate both the history of Finland and the nature of Finland — quite unlike the newly released new commemorative coin in which it was decided to honor the story of Finland with pictures of executions and massacres. By establishing a new national park, we guarantee that future generations will also enjoy the magnificent landscapes of Kainuu and thus the history of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u60	Mr President! It is indeed a pleasure to discuss this government proposal on Hossa. So this year we celebrate Finland's 100th anniversary in many different ways, and one of them is now the Parliament's decision on Finland's 100th anniversary national park, and it is therefore also a pleasure that we are discussing the government's proposal specifically on the Hossa National Park. Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Hassi, and to the Committee as a whole for this process. In fact, with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we took a look at the area in the autumn of 2015, the year before yesterday, and in sunny seasons we heard the commitment of local actors and a strong will for Hossa to become a national park. As Mrs Parviainen pointed out, when something new is being created and built, it is necessary to be able to give up something old, and Mrs Parviainen made a good point about hunting permits. Mr President! Hossa's natural values are superior and beautiful, and that area is an excellent expression of Finnish nature. The area presented as Hossa National Park is already almost entirely part of the EU's Natura 2000 network, and most of it is a state hiking area and an old forest conservation programme site in Northern Finland, and Hossa is also part of the functional complex of the Kalevalapuisto nature reserve for Finnish-Russian nature conservation and cultural cooperation. As we have already heard today, the area is pine dominated, there are swamps and swamps, lakes and ponds of about 130, but also ice age tracks are still visible in Hossa. There is a large formation of several ridges through the area, and there are also some incredibly beautiful rock paintings, deer traps and old casseroles used in fishing. As far as these economic and employment impacts are concerned, national parks have become a very important attraction for tourism both nationally and internationally. The status of the National Park ensures a sustainable and permanent framework for nature tourism on which profitable and long-term business activities can be created. According to the statistics for 2015, there were over 50,000 or 53,300 visitors in the Hossa camping area, so more than 2 million, around 2.4 million, and 26 man-years of employment, and hopefully many times more in the coming years. Indeed, this project has been prepared together in accordance with the theme of the centenary year. I myself was the chairman of Parliament's patrol parliamentarians, and during the past year, many school visits to that region in Kainuu and North Ostrobothnia have challenged schoolchildren to visit Hossa National Park in the coming years. At the end I thought I would read on the Hossa National Park page such a brief invitation: "Do you hear the calming silence of the wilderness? Hossa already feels familiar from her first step. A relaxing silence will accompany landscapes that will make Hossa’s wilderness gentle. Soft paths lead the hiker forward. The calm waters encourage the paddler to continue from one lava to another. By the rivers the fisherman rejoices at his prey, the strong - fighting ridge. The bear cubs on the platform also seem to know that everything is exactly what it should be here in Hossa. The feeling of Hossa’s familiarity seems only to be intensifying as the Mystic paintings of Color Rock are admired. The longing for Hossa’s magnificent landscape must have been set upon us thousands of years ago, while drawing ancient messages.” - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u61	Mr President! Finland’s 100-year independence is respected and celebrated in many ways. This foundation of Hossa National Park is just one way to impale these glorious years and this mark year. There are many features and many stories about our country's independence. One of the key points is that over the years our nation has made every effort to achieve equality and equity among the citizens. We are one of the world's leading countries in promoting equality. In view of this aspect of equality, I am a little surprised that this national park, which is now being set up to mark our country, has almost completely ignored the aspect of equality. In my opinion, now, if anywhere, we must promote equality so that the national park can be exploited on an equal footing by all groups of people and enthusiasts. Unfortunately, however, it seems that once again hunting enthusiasts are classified as class B citizens whose leisure opportunities are weakened in the national park area. I am particularly concerned, and I dare say that I am also saddened that this caste is still being spread among hunting enthusiasts by dividing them into locals and out-of-towners. Based on the division, different rights are defined for them to take advantage of the national park landscapes in connection with their hobbies. In this age of equality and equality, it is not enough to put hunters as a hobby group in a position of inferiority with other people who use the national park, but also to divide the group of hunters according to their place of residence, could it be said that goats and sheep? This has come up in several speeches today. Let's talk about the neighborhood. Mr President! Of course, as a representative of the Government Party, I will not vote against this bill, because this is a good bill otherwise and this is a lot of good and respectable. But with this speech I would like to express my opinion to the whole Finnish people that hunting enthusiasts should not be treated as second-class citizens when establishing national parks. Today it has turned out that, for example, only 1% of people coming to the national park are hunting, I believe that some kind of right is also this 1%. It is precisely when we talk about the Finnish centenary that I would have allowed every citizen, including this 1%, to have had an equal position. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u62	Mr President! One of the main reasons for discontent in this country is that people feel that they are being treated unjustly. In my opinion, Parliament is an important place in many respects, and at least in this Parliament we must pay attention to the fact that people have rights. When Finland is really a country of equality and equality — and I am proud to have spoken about it in many different places, even abroad — this speech is therefore important: Let us not go to the line of making decisions on the basis that only the feeling is right. We need to understand what legalism means and what rights mean. In this case, this national park will be established on land owned by us all, we are all landowners. For me, this Hossa is not in itself such a big deal, because I am probably never going there, and this hunting itself is not a big thing either. This point of view, which is why I am giving this speech here, is not that we should go hunting there, not at all, but that it is a little deeper and more important: the more people's rights in this society will be shared on the basis of their place of residence, the more problems and the more disputes we will have — and there is already quite a lot of them. Mr Chairman of the committee! We think so constructively in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry: you are asking us for an opinion, we in the Committee have some expertise in hunting, responsible hunting and hunting, where game stocks are protected, and catch quotas are always important. The nature of hunting has changed quite substantially over the course of decades, and the old rule, Article 8 of the Hunting Act, that can be hunted on the basis of locality, I respect and, contrary to what has been said in this Chamber, perhaps insinuated, I am by no means this Article 8 of the Hunting Act. To get away from anyone. But it must be understood that this Section 8 of the Hunting Act does not mean that the national park, which is built by separate legislation, should, because of its Article 8, be driven away as if by other owners and the other rights should be invalidated. You can't do that. In fact, Mr President-in-Office, if you had wanted to take the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry into account, you would have noticed — perhaps if you had wanted to ask a few questions — that there is already a viable solution at local level, which has been highlighted here, how this hunting should be carried out in the Hossa National Park area. There is an example in Suomussalmi, Mr Chairman of the committee, of how this should be dealt with. Local hunters are required to apply for free permission from Metsähallitus to the nature reserve in Suomussalmi Martinselkonen. In this reserve, permit hunters, out-of-towners and locals hunt with the permission of Metsähallitus. This is the solution we have proposed to you, because it has already been acknowledged and accepted locally. Hunting would have been controlled, planned and in the context of catch feedback. We have offered you this model, Mr Chairman of the committee, which would have ensured that the hunting pressure in the national park is known and can be ensured for its sustainability. I am a little surprised that this has not happened to you, because now you are actually supporting and bringing to Parliament a model that guarantees free hunting that is not controlled and is not included in the catch report. Representative Hongisto, who is apparently a hunter, can testify: do you think that such hunting is modern even outside the national park, that it is not known who hunts, when hunts and does not make a catch report? If so, then I have misunderstood the whole hunting culture that prevails today. Then, as far as this culture is concerned, hunting is part of this area. It is a strong hunting culture in Eastern Finland. When it is suggested here that it is only 3% of the countries, and apparently it also applies to the locals, that they have the 97 percent chance of hunting elsewhere, how can it be so sacred to everyone? When a common compromise is offered here through the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, because this is Hossa National Park — together — it is now becoming a national park for the dumping of inequality and justice. These should be taken seriously if the expert report gives you some kind of hint. Somehow here is the feeling that when the government parties so agree that we do so that Metsähallitus, with official responsibility, defines hunting without endangering the purpose of the national park and without compromising those values, that would have led to the conclusion that if the number of visitors there actually increased, the hunting would have been stopped in those periphery areas too. In your model, this cannot be done when you hold only to rights, to the rights of a few. I think there's been some amazing thing going on here. It is all I can understand now that everyone seems to have understood what would be the most reasonable solution. Apparently, the authority here has become an obstacle to making the right decision. Now you have been allowed to exercise the power that belongs to the Member of Parliament and the committee, and obviously this is not going to be a vote. I find Hossa National Park particularly good and those natural values. The fact that it has been established is a great thing, and I support it. But the way you have conducted this hunt does not correspond to the modern way and does not correspond to modern culture and does not correspond to modern forms of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u63	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Estilä asked me, by name, how I feel about hunting a little there and here and there, a little free, and no one has really controlled it. The short answer to the question that has been asked, Mr President, is that, as a hunting enthusiast and a police officer, I cannot accept in any way that hunting is free. Yes, it must be well regulated and well controlled. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u64	Mr President! To the same thing: I'm a hunter. My family hunts all the people, we go there in the woods. And we are regulating that hunting ourselves, because we are certainly not going to start shooting that last group, not really, but it is regulated, because the hunting time is very limited — because it exists. Local clubs are able to give even more detailed instructions, and yes, the locals are just following them very much, and it is very specific about the job. I really do not like the fact that when I go hunting — the few things that we have special rights in the area — I should start asking when I get to go hunting, whether I get to shoot them, because no one but the locals knows what is the best carrying capacity of nature for forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u65	One last comment, Mr Eestilä, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u66	Mr President! I think it is worth mentioning that this government proposal has withheld information and facts. In the area of these three municipalities 7,000 people are entitled to hunt in the national park area. In the game management association of Suomussalmi, there were 3,800 of these members, of whom 2000 have the right to hunt at hunting time whenever it happens and how it happens in the national park area — probably by walking along the same paths as hikers. This may have been said a little more harshly, but that is what I wanted to say, in my opinion, that these government proposals and documents should have all the relevant elements and should not bring up such things as are appropriate for their own purpose. This National Park has been bought with the wrong money. It has been bought in such a way that the locals are promised that hunting will be prohibited from others. Many are excited that a great job, we get as if more rights when they are taken away from others. That's what this is all about. The second thing that is at issue here is that we want the national park to expand and hunting to continue to be banned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u67	Mr President! Representative Maijala raised an important issue in relation to the management budget for parks. As a result of increasing recreational use, routes and structures are running out, so there is a real need for money for maintenance. As Mr Myller said, there are interesting and valuable protected sites close to the park in Metsähallitus. The construction of these routes would require refurbishment, but not everything is in good condition. We Kurvise villagers are particularly annoyed by the fact that the longwoods that lead to the Närängä wilderness house in the old forest reserve are now banned because of their poor condition. Näränkä is only 20 km from the new park, and I believe that Närängä wilderness farm will be a parallel destination for visitors to Hossa National Park. It would be good if all the routes that lead to Näränk were in good shape. It would give a good impression of handling things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u69	Mr President! A few speeches on hunting may have given the impression that the Committee on the Environment has now adopted and presented a completely new, revolutionary practice. This is not the case, but the Committee on the Environment wants to continue the line that has been followed so far in the national parks of the northernmost Finland in terms of hunting. These articles of the Nature Conservation Act were laid down in 2009 and, as has already been said several times, the Constitutional Committee has dealt with the matter in 2010 and stated that it is in accordance with the practical constitution, but the practice that locals have hunting rights in national parks in the northernmost Finland is much older than the current Nature Conservation Act. But, Mr President, I actually asked to speak to highlight the cultural historical aspect of the Hossa region and the region, which has been an important criterion for choosing the region as the 100th anniversary national park of Finland's independence. Several speakers have already said that: In Hossa there is a magnificent, old rocky rock cliff, which is estimated to be between 3500 and 400,000 years old. These paintings have been identified by researchers, slightly depending on the researcher, between 40 and 60 different images that are interpreted as related to hunting and shamanism. But there are traces of an older settlement: For example, a 7000 - year - old piece of pottery has been found on the shore of Lounaya in Lipponenniemi. There are traces of Sámi, Karelians and Finns in the name of the region. There are graves of Viking and Crusade times in the area. The eastern border of the Suomussalmi follows a line that was drawn already in the late 16th century. It is one of the oldest borders still in force in Europe. There are several centuries-old fishing pits and casseroles in the area. In addition to the natural economy, there have been economic activities in the region early in the day, peasant culture and reindeer farming, and in the 20th century there is a savovotta roommate. In relation to independence and the awakening of Finnish nationalism, these regions are also central. There are areas quite close to where folk poems have been collected, from which Lönnrot has once gathered Kalevala. In 1834 Suomussalmi made the decision to set up the first Finnish magazine Bee, and on Easter Saturday a hundred years ago, in 1917, Suomussalmi met with a citizens' meeting, which first demanded Finland's independence. The first president of Finland, K.J. Ståhlberg was born in Suomussalmella, and the author Ilmari Kianto, who wrote the classics of Finnish literature during the period of independence — or this boundary, the era — was also there. In World War II, the Winter War, one of the most legendary battles was fought on Raateentie, which is also in Suomussalmella. In other words, there are very important historical and cultural historical values in this area, which are also key to maintaining Finland's independence and independence. This is the point I wanted to make in this debate, so that we do not overemphasize the 3% of hunting grounds for which we disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u70	Mr President! There was reference here to the tradition of building national parks in Finland, and unfortunately the reference was wrong; apparently these other elements of decision-making have been a little wrong. These hunting matters are regulated by separate legislation, which at any time applies to each national park. Article 13 of the Nature Conservation Act prohibits the hunting of grey seals in the Bothnian National Park, while the hunting of waterbirds elsewhere is permitted. These are isolated cases. So you can't draw the conclusion that these are made according to a general pattern. Apparently, if something's happened in the '30s, '40s, '50s, then there's no way that's gonna change. In my opinion, there are purely legal grounds here, which I myself am looking at, and in other respects the government's proposal is good. I want this Hossa National Park to come and all the plans that are there, and that nature will remain untouched in a certain way for posterity and also for foreigners, but this is something I do not accept that hunting was done by trampling on rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u71	Mr President! It must be said from the outset that this establishment of the Hossa National Park by the government is a great way to respect Finland's 100-year independence. Hossa National Park, on the other hand, has a tremendous respect for the magnificent nature complex that is in Hossa, the old history of culture and the importance of Suomussalmi in Finland's independence. The representative Hassi, in a good way, described all the meanings and everything that can be found in Suomussalm and in the background of that national park. But it is also important to note in these decisions to set up the government that the setting-up also strongly emphasises the importance of promoting economic activity in the establishment of the park. So it is true that Hossa National Park is and will be of huge importance from the point of view of the tourism in Upper Kaunu, North-East Finland. As has been observed today, the debate has been triggered by the right to hunt and the right to fish. With regard to fishing rights, it is good to agree with the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that it is important to draw up a comprehensive plan for the management and use of fishing waters in the Hossa National Park. Well, this hunting right is, of course, problematic. As far as the out-of-towners are concerned, the right to hunt is being restricted, and I myself originally felt that the right to hunt should be maintained as it stands. The permit policy of Metsähallitus and the granting of permits... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u74	That's fine, too. — Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u75	Mr President! I would just like to remind all colleagues that the main rule in national parks is that hunting is prohibited. Locally justified and limited derogations may be granted. From one national park, representative Eestilä listed these exceptions, which are limited and locally justified. The principle of maintaining local hunting rights has long been observed in northern Finnish national parks. I would also like to stress that the municipalities in the region also support the government's proposal in this regard, in my view, largely because they believe that this is the best solution for the development of the regional economy and tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u76	Mr President! I will continue with that, which was originally my opinion that the hunting right should have been maintained as it is today, and I thought that Metsähallitus' permit practices were good at keeping the hunting in control of the area. But I too have come to the conclusion that, when this proposal fully reflects the views of the municipality of Suomussalmi and these municipalities, I respect the proposal and its views. In fact, I will conclude with this idea that it is a great thing that this park is now being set up to celebrate the 100-year independence of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-25-ps-42.u77	Mr President! A bit more general: Fishing and hunting tourism already runs hundreds of millions in Finland. After all, culture has really changed over the last ten years, and now wilderness tourism has to be accepted as a tourism-related industry, such as fishing tourism. Now this has happened when our predators in Eastern Finland have weakened hunting opportunities specifically with the dog, that people would like to go hunting in areas where hunting with the dog is possible, and they do so sparing game stocks. That is what this is all about, and I think I should honestly say why this has been done. It is because the local population would not accept a national park if hunting was banned, and when they are promised that only they will be allowed to hunt, it is a stimulus to form a national park. Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, I have the feeling that I am not in Parliament's plenary session, but at the buying and selling of the purchasing and selling business.
