ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 9/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 11 October 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u2	Mr President, ärade talman! I object to the amendments to Chapter 2c, Section 11 and Chapter 6, Section 2 As proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u3	Madam President! I support the proposals made as they were put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u4	Eva Biaudet, supported by Antero Laukkanen, has proposed that Chapter 2c, Section 11 and Chapter 6, Section 2 to be adopted in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u5	Mr President! I meant to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u6	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u7	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 9/2017 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the Strategic Partnership Agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u8	Madam President! This partnership agreement between the EU and Canada has been negotiated at the same time as the EU-Canada investment and trade agreement on CETA has been negotiated. The question arose as to the extent to which the two are interlinked, this Partnership Agreement and CETA, above all because the two paragraphs of this Partnership Agreement refer to CETA, which has not yet been adopted. It was important for the Committee on Foreign Affairs to consult experts and to examine precisely the aspect of whether the adoption of this agreement will give some advance consideration to the fact that we are adopting CETA, on the one hand, what happens to these references to CETA if the CETA agreement is not adopted, and, on the other hand, whether it will become a political problem. According to our report in committee, this partnership agreement can be approved as a separate agreement, no matter what happens with CETA, and that is why we were able to accept this unanimously. I think it was very important that we unanimously also recorded that this does not give a reference to what our position on CETA will be. However, since this has been thought that this partnership agreement is needed for the possible adoption of the CETA agreement, a few words about this CETA agreement. Firstly, at least according to the government's timetables until now, the CETA agreement was to be brought before Parliament this month. The first point is whether we are in a hurry to ratify this CETA agreement. Belgium has taken the European Court of Justice to assess whether this CETA agreement is compatible with EU law and, in particular, with the investment court system. This investment court system is the one that has raised the most widespread criticism, both among citizens and between countries. This procedure in the EU Court of Justice is estimated to last at least 1.5 to 2 years and my question is that when the government has not yet brought a legislative proposal,it is reasonable to present a legislative proposal at this stage in the Parliament,when it is known that it may not be possible to ratify at any time The second question is that if the government is to bring the agreement to Parliament in any case as a draft law, then is it reasonable that we should proceed to the matter before we know what this court's decision is in this regard? Belgium is not the only question with regard to this CETA agreement. The French Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, said that if people's concerns about CETA were not taken seriously, it would be dangerous for trade policy and the EU. The French President, Mr Macron, has also raised critical points about CETA in his campaign, and the representatives of his group in the French Parliament in the majority have pointed out that ratification cannot be done unless clarifications are made to this agreement, and ratification of the agreement requires that it be approved by each Member State. Above all, the question is precisely what happens to this investment court, what is the solution? If we think about this CETA agreement, which has already entered into force with regard to provisional application, it will remove these duties and others, but this most critical point, the questions of the Investment Court, has not been resolved. This is an issue which is now before the European Court of Justice and which raises the most international criticism, the criticism of non-governmental organisations. It is a point which has also been critically viewed by all the committees that have previously been taken up by CETA here in Parliament. The partnership agreement between the EU and Canada is acceptable because it is also clearly stated in the report that this partnership agreement does not mean the adoption of CETA, and even if the CETA agreement is not ratified, in a way these entries will remain a dead letter, but instead we in Parliament will have to look very critically at this future CETA agreement and also freimate it for the debate that is taking place in the EU Court of Justice and which is taking place in France at the moment, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u9	Mr President! This is where Mr Arhinmäki, in fact, very well described this situation, and thank him for it. However, I would like to take a point of view a little further, i.e. I would like to take a look at this from the point of view of world trade policy in general. Since the United States destroyed the possibility of moving forward with the TTIP agreement, the EU has clearly activated its trade policy and is seeking to make various trade policy arrangements with Australia, Japan and many other countries. This strategic partnership agreement with Canada is now linked to the EU's larger and wider trade policy strategy. Arhinmäki rightly described this as a sort of separate arrangement and does not create any preconception about what should be done to CETA, yet these have a certain mental connection based on values and other things. It is very important to note that the EU has now become active in trade policy and is creating various arrangements, and one thing is also to put pressure on the United States, in a way, indirectly, to finally wake up and continue negotiations on this TTIP agreement. This is a good presentation at this stage, and we'll see CETA later on separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u10	Mr President! I would like to thank the previous speakers, indeed both of them, for the fact that the situation was opened up quite well with regard to this partnership agreement and then with regard to the free trade agreement to be concluded later. However, I would like to stress here that this partnership agreement is a very broad-based agreement. It will enable CETA to be taken forward in due course, but it will also create opportunities for cooperation on human rights, sustainable development, many other important forms of cooperation between states. In that sense, it is important that this agreement is concluded now and then, when the CETA agreement is brought to our decision, a separate debate will be held on it. In this respect, I agree with Mr Salolainen that forwarding the CETA agreement is very important for a country such as Finland that is dependent on exports. Now that the TTIP negotiations are on hold and the CETA agreement, which has been under negotiation for six years now, has been well concluded and is in fact the most modern trade agreement the EU has, it will also serve as a model for other agreements that the EU is now going to conclude with many other countries such as New Zealand, Australia, etc. This modern agreement specifically covers these principles of human rights and sustainable development, which are of great importance to us in Finland, among others: that trade is conducted on a sustainable basis, respecting the partner and respecting all parties affected by international trade in general. It is important that this partnership agreement be taken forward so that cooperation continues, and then we will deal with CETA when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u11	Madam President! There has been a good debate here between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the members of the large committee. For Finland, I personally welcome the strengthening of cooperation between the EU and Canada. There are a lot of elements there that are, in fact, specifically connecting Finland and Canada. Arctic cooperation is, of course, the most important thing here, and Canada has shown interest in this. This creates good opportunities between us and Canada. This is about CETA, but hopefully the cooperation between Canada and the EU will also radiate more activity and activity to Finnish companies. As President of the Arctic Council, that is where Canada acted a moment ago, after them the United States, and now it is Finland, that is, in this particular Canada-EU cooperation with a country like us, like Canada, in the north, there is much to gain, and we should be active here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u12	Mr President! The Committee on Finance recently visited Canada and, as Mr Heinonen said there, there was a great deal of cooperation there. On almost every occasion we talked about Arctic issues, of course we also talked about trade policy issues. With the current numbers, trade between Finland and Canada is so modest that there are very interesting opportunities, especially if progress is made at state level and in federal procurement. What Mr Arhinmäki said about CETA is easy to agree with in many respects. It is true, however, that Canadians, for example, are experiencing their own problems, as is, of course, Cecilia Malmström, Commissioner of the European Union, that citizens' concerns about this system of investment protection have been heard. To some extent this is true, at least in the sense that it was precisely the concern expressed in the TTIP negotiations about this arrangement that was transferred to such a progressive trade agreement, as described by the Canadians themselves, which they are seeking, taking account of the environment, employment, workers' rights, social rights and the rights of indigenous peoples. So in that sense a step forward is unquestionably taken. But then there is the issue that the EU Court of Justice is currently having an impact on these future trade agreements, and that is the Singapore solution, which distinguishes investment protection from other trade negotiations. This is currently under discussion in the Committee on Budgets: we will look into and consider how this will affect trade agreements in the future and whether there is really an opportunity to distinguish between them. In this case, we have a political agreement and then trade comes separately, and in any case, relations between Finland and Canada will become even more intense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u13	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Arhinmäki for his excellent overview, as I did with the introduction to this subject on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I personally see that the partnership agreement is clearly a good thing, and there are no questions here. But then, in relation to CETA, as has been mentioned here, the decisions will have to be dealt with in greater detail later, and the concerns expressed here by Mr Arhinmäki are justifiable. It is interesting in itself that, if you look at the public debate, this CETA agreement does not inspire passions in the same way as the TTIP Free Trade Agreement between the EU and the United States. However, it is likely to have to do with the political change that has taken place in the United States in the past. Trump's election, but even more prominently with Trump's election as President, has now been accompanied by a certain form of protectionism, although the traditional Republican line has been in favour of free trade. It will be interesting to see over the next few years how Trump's position is evolving, the situation of his administration — after all, there has not even been an ambassador in Finland — and how these traditional Republicans, who are, in principle, in favour of free trade, see the benefits of their ability to really adapt to this protectionist policy. At least that's what I doubt. On the other hand, free trade with Japan, for example, has not given rise to similar passions, which is that the United States is still, for these political reasons, the one that inspires this critical debate. On the other hand, there is the position of China, now that the United States has withdrawn in this way: China is certainly taking over the industry, and it is not by chance that their President, Xi Jinping, said at the party meeting of the Communist Party that they are aiming for China to be a modern international superpower from 2035 to 2050. This may sound like far-reaching vision, but in their historical perspective it is very close, and we too must be prepared for the inevitable increase in China's influence if the United States does so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u14	Mr President! This is a very important point that has now been raised. In my opinion, the United States is in trade policy, shooting very badly at its own foot. It has given up these negotiations with the EU and has abandoned the agreements negotiated there in the Pacific region and is withdrawing its purely national protectionist diaper. This is a very worrying development, and we too in Finland must see that this is perhaps a major challenge for us in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u15	Mr President! All partnership agreements that are concluded internationally and free trade agreements are always in Finland's interest. Its history shows, and there is quite a simple reason: Finland is a very export-dependent country and our well-being is based on exports in every way. Today the composition of exports is different from that used to be. Today it is a 70% intermediate market. We should also note that exports outside the EU are even more important in terms of value added than exports to the EU. If we go into such a world and are involved in a European Union with protectionism and wrong nationalism, it will always be a disadvantage for Finland, so if we talk about CETA and other free trade agreements here too, then at least from this corner we will have a green light, because it is a positive thing for promoting exports and therefore it is a positive thing for public sector finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u16	Madam President! Representative Arhinmäki used an excellent summary speech as a basis for this debate. The growth of Finland's economy and the well-being of Finland's people depend very much, as Mr Eestilä said, on our foreign trade. Finland is a country dependent on export trade and we must ensure that Finland trades both inside and outside the European Union, i.e. to other continents. It is worth remembering, however, that this TTIP agreement, which is currently on ice, is that what its future is, seems to be pretty much related to the person of the President of the United States, what he is doing, what is the situation in that country. But in any case, there are also threats in the TTIP agreement, not to be naive about it. There are also some points where, for example, large multinationals would be able to attack the small countries in principle — if we do not negotiate precise, good terms in that agreement, if that is possible. If there is a dispute settlement procedure in which, for example, the arbitral tribunal settles matters, then such supranational companies will certainly be able to afford to deal with it in such a way that a small country disappears between billions and billions of dollars. We must remember that, for example, the US company General Electric has a turnover of over $100 billion a year, close to 150 billion, higher than the Finnish government's balance sheet, more than twice the Finnish government's annual budget. It means that in these agreements, of course, the national interest must be our own, and we must ensure that the multinationals do not attack a small state, because they have money for us, no matter how many different courts then fight, so that the articles of the agreement must be good, then the package becomes good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u17	Mr President! Many of the views and contributions made in this debate are very easy to agree with, and in particular this view on the EU-Canada Strategic Partnership Agreement. The adoption of this strategic partnership agreement is an important step in cooperation between the EU and Canada and, of course, in closer and stronger links between Finland and Canada. The importance of the Arctic for both Canada and Finland has rightly been raised here today. It is very important to both of us nations. Of course, there are many other important areas of cooperation in the agreement. It is therefore a good thing that the Committee on Foreign Affairs was unanimous in this report and in favour of the adoption of this agreement. Mr President! As far as the possible CETA agreement which has emerged in this debate is concerned, we must, of course, take a very thorough look at it here in Parliament, if necessary, and also take a position on these very important questions and concerns raised by Mr Arhinmäki in his opening speech. We will have to ensure that, when it comes to that agreement in due course, if it does, at least that our national interests will not suffer under any circumstances. International trade is, of course, very important for Finland. We are an export-driven country, which has emerged from this debate. That's what we've been for decades now. I'm sure we'll be there in the future. That is why this international cooperation is important, but, of course, the rules of the game must also be fair, equal and fully in order and well established in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u18	Mr President! There was a debate as to why the attitude towards the Canadian Free Trade Agreement and the US Free Trade Agreement is so different. This is also due to the fact that the attitude of both countries to these agreements has been very different. It was very tangible when we visited both Canada and the United States on the trip to committee. The United States is once and for all so much more aggressive in these negotiations. We heard Commissioner Malmström's report in the large committee, which, to my surprise, showed that even after 14 rounds no agreement had yet been reached that this future TTIP agreement would oblige the US states to do anything at all. It's just... it's... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's... And secondly, Canada entered into a negotiated agreement with this EU proposal for this investment court without any question. After all, the United States has not yet agreed to any of these EU proposals. So in this respect, I think the difference can be explained. Just when we were in Ottawa, the United States and Canada was against each other when, at Trump's request, the NAFTA agreement was renegotiated, and perhaps a small degree of coercion to this very debate on investment protection is that the United States is demanding that these disputes be resolved in US courts, and the Canadians are bloody opposed to it. It's an "alineinthesand" civil matter where the Canadians aren't going to spring. In other words, this side of the argument is still there that, if we have a dispute resolution in the national courts, some nationalities are once and for all so strong in their own interpretations that smaller nationalities may be left to the weak, so that we should be very open-minded about this investment court, but, as I said earlier, this ruling by the European Court of Justice in the EU-Singapore case will certainly make a great deal of difference in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u19	On this point, I would remind Members that if there are still requests to speak on that list around 1.30 p.m., the debate will be suspended due to a large committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u20	Mr President! A very brief comment to this speech by Mr Haraka. It was important in one respect. When this TTIP agreement was negotiated and there were many rounds, 14 or what, it turned out — among other things, with Mr Stubb in the United States at the time — that when, for example, we were trying to sell icebreakers to the United States, if we could get an agreement at federal level, so when they are being built in the states, the state may declare that it does not accept such an agreement. Well, when we said that, well, for God's sake, we have independent states in the EU, and yet we are able to conclude such trade agreements and negotiate all kinds of things, the only thing that came out is that they have this state system so that they ultimately decide. It is very difficult to negotiate with such a partner if it can always be argued that it is the state in which these icebreakers are built,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u21	Madam President! It was considered why this CETA agreement did not raise so much criticism as the TTIP, and I was actually amazed at it during the last parliamentary term, when the CETA agreement, in a way, went on for a long time, so that only the Left Alliance left its marks on it. It has also been well discussed here that there are big differences, but when CETA comes to this House for discussion — sooner or later or not, but if it does — the fact that US companies, practically all of them, have offices in Canada, that is, US companies, can access the European market through this CETA agreement, for example. These problems, which exist in TTIP and in the US market, relate specifically to this federal state-state issue and, among other things, to the Patriot Act, namely the need to favour US products. As far as this investment court is concerned, it has clearly moved on from what was original, what was in TTIP and what was in TTIP as well, but that is one thing that we must also go through extremely carefully here in Parliament when it comes to this, because, in the worst case, these courts are the kind of courts that, in a way, put small countries on their knees by large multinational companies, and in a way, decisions taken by decision-makers democratically elected by the people can be brought to justice and indirectly even affect decision-making by threatening that if you take such a decision, we will sue you because it is contrary to our economic interests. In other words, there are still a lot of big questions and critical points in CETA, and they must be dealt with with extremely carefully, and I would not be here at all to wave the flag at this point that this is a successful agreement as a whole. Indeed, there is a Belgian case before the European Court of Justice
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-20-ps-108.u23	Mr President! Representative Salolainen here put forward the answer that would have been for Mr Haraka, that is, the status of the states is very strong in the United States, stronger than is often thought of in Europe, in Finland. Of course, this Patriot Act is very difficult for us in the sense that, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said, not all icebreakers in Finland will be done, but all the best icebreakers will be done, and this is currently shooting in the foot, in my opinion, both the American consumer and the state and the Finnish consumer and the state. They do them here for the best and a fraction of the price of what is done in the United States for worse icebreakers, but because of this Patriot Act, these Finns are not bought in the United States. I hope that there will be some change at some point, but I must say that as long as this protectionist line of Trump is there, it will play against us and, for example, against the sale of our icebreakers. It will be difficult to fight this as long as it is directly driven by the President's administration. It must be further stated that China will have a strong place in the game, and if any winner in this situation is, then it is China and the Chinese Communist Party.
